                                    Documentof
                                The WorldBank

                        FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                                 ReportNo: 32337-VN




                      PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                        ONA

                               PROPOSEDCREDIT
                    INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR21.O MILLION
                      (US$31.73 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                     SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                       FOR A

                           ROAD SAFETY PROJECT




                                  MAY 13,2005




TransportUnit
EastAsia andPacific Region



   This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only
   in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be
   disclosedwithout WorldBank authorization.

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
               (Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 2005)


                   Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong (VND)
                     15,839VND      = US$1
                      US0.6613 = SDR 1

                            FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1    - December31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB      Asian Development Bank
CAS      Country assistance strategy
CPRGS    Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy
DP       Displacedperson
E(I)RR   Economic (internal) rate o freturn
EMDP     Ethnic minorities development plan
EMP      Environmental management plan
GDP      Gross domestic product
I N S 0  Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office o fthe UnitedNations
I C B    Internationalcompetitive bidding
IDA      InternationalDevelopment Association
JBIC     Japan Bank for International Cooperation
JICA     Japan International CooperationAgency
N C B    National competitive bidding
NPTS     National Program for Traffic Safety
NPV      Net present value
NRADS    National RoadAccident Database System
NTSC     National Traffic Safety Committee
PIP      Project Implementation Plan
QCBS     Quality cost-based selection
RAP      Resettlement action plan
RPF      Resettlement policy framework
TS PMU   Traffic Safety Project Management Unit
TSSR     Transport Safety Strategy Review
UNDP     UnitedNations Development Program
VRA      Vietnam Road Administration
VRSP     Vietnam Road Safety Project


                   Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum
        Country Managermirector:        Klaus Rohland
                  Sector Manager:       Jitendra N.Bajpai
                                        Je   A. Lebo

                                                                                       FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                          VIETNAM
                                                  RoadSafety Project
                                                         CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                            Page

      A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                              .....................................................  1
        1. Country and sector issues........................................................................................                  1
        2. Rationale for Bank involvement .............................................................................                       3
        3. Higher-level objectives to which the project contributes .......................................                                   4

      B.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION                      .....................................................................................      4
        1. Lending instrument .................................................................................................               4
        2. Project development objective and key indicators..................................................                                 4
        3. Project components .................................................................................................               4
        4. Lessons learnedandreflected inthe project design................................................                                   8
        5. Alternatives considered andreasons for rejection ..................................................                                9

      C . IMPLEMENTATION                  ............................................................................................       10
        1. Partnership arrangements (ifapplicable) .....................                          ;........................................  10
        2. Institutional and implementation arrangements....................................................                                 10
        3. Monitoringand evaluationo f outcomes/results ....................................................                                 12
        4. Sustainablllty.........................................................................................................
                 . . .                                                                                                                       13
        5. Critical risks andpossible controversial aspects...................................................                               13
        6. Credit conditions and covenants ...........................................................................                       14

      D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
        .                                         .....................................................................................      15
        1. Economic and financial analyses..........................................................................                         15
        2. Technical...............................................................................................................          16
        3. Fiduciary ............................................................................................................... 16
        4. Social.....................................................................................................................       17
        5. Environment..........................................................................................................             17
        6. Safeguard policies.................................................................................................               19
        7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness..........................................................................                         19



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
                                                             .
without World Bank authorization                     .

Annexes

Annex 1:Country and Sector or Program Background                                .............................................       21

Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financedby the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                       .....27
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                       ............................................................         29

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description           ..........................................................................           33

Annex 5: Project Costs...................................................................................................            37

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                   .....................................................................          39

Annex 7: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements                                             .........................     43

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements               ..........................................................................           47

Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis                   .................................................................          55

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues         ................................................................................           63

Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision                       .........................................................         81

Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File                .....................................................................          83

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                  ..................................................................         85

Annex 14: Country at a Glance       .....................................................................................            87


IBRDMap 33693

                                     VIETNAM

                               ROAD SAFETY PROJECT

                          PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                               EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

                                       EASTR

Date: May 13,2005                               Team Leader: Jerry A. Lebo
Country Director: Klaus Rohland                 Sectors: Roads andhighways(70%); health
Sector ManagerjDirector: Jitendra N.Bajpai      (20%); general education sector (10%)
                                                Themes: Improving labor markets (P);Other
                                                public sector governance (S); injuriesand
                                                noncommunicable diseases (S)
Project ID: PO85080                             Environmental screening category: Partial
                                                Assessment
LendingInstrument: Specific InvestmentLoan Safeguard screening category: Limitedimpact

[ ] Loan    [XICredit     [ ] Grant [ ] Guarantee     [ ] Other:

For LoansKreditdOthers:
Total Bank financing (US$ million): 31.73
Proposed terms: Standard, with 40-year maturity and 10 years grace period




Borrower:
Socialist Republic o f Vietnam
ResponsibleAgency:
National Traffic Safety Committee, Traffic Safety Projects Management Unit
80 TranHungDao
Hanoi, Vietnam
Tel: (84-4) 942-6528 Fax: (84-4) 942-7591
leminhchauhcm@hn.vnn.vn

innual          1.20      8.50    11.00       9.00     2.03
:umulativeI     1.20 II   9.70 II 20.70   II 29.70  II31.73   II
Project implementation period: Start July 1,2005 End: June 30, 2009
Expected effectiveness date: October 27,2005
Expected closing date: December 31,2009
Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
Re$ PAD A.3                                                                         [ ]Yes [XINO

Doesthe project require any exceptions from Bankpolicies?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                         [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                        [ ]Yes [XINO
[s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                         [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Re$ PAD C.5                                                                         [XIYes [ ]No

Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
Re$ PADD.7       .                                                                  [XIYes [ ] N o

Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, Technical Annex 3
The project development objective is to reduce the rate o f accidents, injury, and death associated
with road transport throughphysical improvement and institutional development to strengthen
the management o f road transport safety.
Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Re$ PAD B.3.a, Technical
Annex 4
The project has three components: Institutional and Capacity BuildingProgram, Road Safety
Demonstrationand Awareness Program, andRoad Safety Monitoring and EvaluationProgram.
Component A will provide technical assistance and project implementation support to strengthen
the management and technical capacity o f the National Traffic Safety Committee (NTSC)
Executive Office and the Traffic Safety Project Management Unit (TS PMU) andprepare a
national road safety strategy. Component Bwill assist the government indeveloping and
implementing comprehensive, integrated safety programs, including enhancement of road safety
auditing processes and fundingo fblackspot treatments, for three high-risk road corridors, and
also includes a program o f roaduser education, traffic safety enforcement, and emergency
service preparedness along the three demonstration corridors. Component C will support the
development o f a national road accident database system, to be used initiallyby Vietnam Road
Administration (VRA) to enhance the identification and treatment o fblackspots and by the
Ministry o f Public Safety to improve enforcement strategies andpriorities.
Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany? Re$ PAD D.6, Technical Annex 10
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Re$ PAD C.7
Boardpresentation:
N o policy exceptions are required.

Loadcredit effectiveness:
Besides the standard requirements, the following conditions have been set for credit
effectiveness:
 --  NTSC has finalized and adopted the project implementationplan.
     TS PMUhas established a computerized financial management system for the project,
     including design o f the chart o f accounts and installation o f software to produce financial
     monitoring reports.
 -   TS PMUstaff has receivedtraining inthe financial management system and inthe Bank's
     financial management, disbursement, and procurement procedures.
 -   A financial management officer anda full- time accountant havebeen appointedat

 -   TS PMU.
     The Consultative Council and the sub-PMUs have been established.
 -   The PrimeMinister has instructedNTSC andthe participating agencies to develop and
     implement a detailedmechanism for sharing information about improving road safety.
 -   NTSC has trained the staff o f all participating agencies onprocurement.
Covenants applicable to project implementation:
No simificant or nonstandard conditions.


A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE
1.      Country and sector issues
The government ofVietnam's development objectives, as well as concrete actions to
achieve them, are presented inthe country's Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and
Growth Strategy (CPRGS), which i s basedon its medium-term(2001-2010)
development strategy. The CPRGS has three pillars: (i)     highgrowththrough transition to
a market economy; (ii)   an equitable, socially inclusive, and sustainable pattemof growth;
and(iii) adoption o fmodernpublic administration, legal, and governance systems.
         the

Vietnam has hadone o fthe fastest growing economies inthe world inrecent years, and
poverty has declined rapidly. Despite these gains, an estimated 24 percent o f the
population livedbelow the poverty line in2004. Furthermore, a large proportion o f the
population livesjust above the poverty line andis vulnerable to falling into poverty with
even minor changes ineconomic circumstances.

Economic growth i s beingaccompanied byrapid traffic growth. Since 1990, the number
of automobiles has increased two-and-a-half times andthe number o f motorcycles has
increased eight-and-a-half times. Over 90 percent o f the 11-12 million motorized
vehicles inVietnam are motorcycles. Yet incomparison to those o f other Asian
countries, motorization levels inVietnam are still low, indicating that vehicle ownership
will continue to increase with economic growth for manymore years.

Road fatalities increased 39 percent in2000/2001 and 22 percent in2001/2002. Vietnam
had a reported fatality rate o f about 12per 10,000 vehicles and an accident rate o f about
20 per 10,000 vehicles in2004. These rates are below those o f China (about 25-30
fatalities per 10,000 vehicles), but higher than those of Thailand and Malaysia (about 5
fatalities per 10,000 vehicles). Rates inOECD countries are inthe range o f 1-2 fatalities
per 10,000 vehicles.

InVietnam, as inmanycountries, under-reporting ofaccidents and fatalities is
significant. The Vietnam Multi-Center InjurySurvey o f 27,000 households estimatedthat
there were 900,000 road traffic accidents involving injury in2001, incomparison to
reported accidents o f 25,000. Similarly, road-related fatalities are estimated to be under-
reported by about 30 percent. Fatalities are particularly common among young
motorcycle users.

The deteriorating road safety environment inVietnam reflects regional trends. Road
deaths are projected to grow by 80 percent inthe East Asia andPacific region inthe next
two decades inthe absence of new policies and greater road safety investment.' Vietnam
is not expected to go against this trend inthe short or mediumterm without significant
investment and policy reform.




 ElizabethKopitsandMaureen Cropper, TrafzcFatalities and Economic Growth. 2003. PolicyResearch
 Working PaperNumber3035. World Bank, Washington, DC.


                                               1

Government Strategy
Vietnam's 2002-201 0 National Policy on Accident and InjuryPrevention2notes that
injuries related to road accidents are notjust a transport sector issue, but a leading factor
inawider national injurycrisis. The government-at               the highest levels and across
sectors-therefore      gives a highpriority to improving road safety. The Government
strategy i s spelled out inthe National Program for Traffic Safety (NPTS), which covers
the period 2001-2005. The NPTS calls for policy andphysical interventions funded by
government budgets, driver training and licensing fees, insurance, and official
development assistance. Its activities include (i)       education andpublicity campaigns; (ii)
road safety audits; (iii)   identification and treatment o fblackspots3(iv) development o f a
traffic accident reporting and analysis database; (v) improvement inthe driver training
and licensing system; (vi) creation o f first-aid stations; and (vii) modernization o fthe
motor vehicle registration and inspection system.

The National Traffic Safety Committee (NTSC) i s responsible for coordinating delivery
o fNPTS activities andreporting on progress. It has a small secretariat (Executive Office)
inthe MinistryofTransport. Elevenministries arerepresented onthe NTSC at the deputy
minister or vice minister level. The chairman is the minister o f Transport.

National government funding for NTSC and road safety activities carried out by line
ministries comes from traffic fine receipts. The majority (60 percent) o fthese funds goes
directly to the Road andRail Traffic Police Administration (RRTPA) under the Ministry
o fPublic Security, while other road safety activities and NTSC receive 35 percent. The
remainder is usedfor general budget support. Local funding for traffic safety activities
also comes from fines, with the bulk allocatedto traffic police, traffic inspection, and
localpolice departments (52 percent). The remainder i s usedto fund vehicle inspection
centers, local traffic safety departments, and local government road safety activities. The
overall level o f funding for road safety in2003 was about US$45 million, split equally
between local and national expenditure.

Sector Issues
In2003, the World Bank conducted atransport safety strategy review (TSSR) to assess
government programs and approaches to road safety, set out short-, medium-, and long-
term strategies to address deteriorating road safety inVietnam, and guide World Bank
investment for the next 15 years. InJune 2003, the World Bank andthe government
discussed the findings o f the TSSR andthe main issues inthe sector.

Capacity and accountability. The most pressing need inroad safety is to strengthen the
capacity, resources, and skills o f the agencies responsible for delivering the government's
program, including NTSC. The current legal framework focuses NTSC's role in
coordination, leaving responsibility for implementation with central government

~~




2 National Policy on Accident andInjury Prevention2002-201 0, Vietnam Ministry o fHealthandNational
  Steering Committee on Accident and InjuryPrevention, Hanoi 2002.
  A blackspot is a roadsite where serious accidents frequently occur. A black route is a longer stretch of
  road where accidents frequently occur.



                                                      2

agencies, other relevant organizations, andprovincial andmunicipal People's
Committees. This limits accountability for overall outcomes andmakes coordination
difficult. Furthermore, funding streams are uncertain, and interventions are not monitored
or assessed. Donors, private businesses, andnongovernmental organizations (NGOs) also
develop projects, but these are not incorporated into a cohesive program.

Knowledge and awareness of road safety. Because motorization inVietnam has
increased so rapidly, the public sector response has emphasized basic traffic management
functions such as driver licensing and vehicle inspection and registration. International
experience, however, suggests that such programs, although important for general
standards setting and administration, have only a marginal impact on accident and fatality
rates inthe short term. To curb rapidly rising accident and fatality rates, targeted, cost-
effective measures that have an immediate impact, such as speed-limit and drunk-driving
enforcement, separation o f traffic, and motorcycle helmet law enforcement, must be
identified, implemented, and monitored under a comprehensive program o f action.

Furthermore, public awareness o fthe importance o f road safety and compliance with
road safety laws must improve. For example, alcohol appears to be a bigger traffic safety
problem than i s acknowledged, but little attempt has beenmade to deter drunk drivers.
Furthermore, laws requiring motorcycle helmets and imposing speed limits are seenby
the public as ineffective or inconflict with personal freedom. And finally, inthe face o f
poor traffic behavior, traffic police also lack knowledge and incentives for developing
more effective policing strategies, have limitedresources, and see their job largely as the
apprehension o f offenders rather thanthe deterrence o f unsafe behavior.

Framework for long-term action. Despite its breadth, the NPTS lacks a method for
setting priorities or an effective framework for monitoring and evaluation. Experience
from other countries has shown that improving road safety requires a consistent 20- or
30-year effort. The NPTS is a 5-year strategy and therefore should be seen as the first
phase o f a longer-term strategy. Business planningprocesses and financial management
andperformance monitoring systems must be put inplace to support such a long-term
strategy, and the first phase o f such a strategy should lead to consensus among
stakeholders and public sector agencies on how to proceedwith a long-term action plan
based on demonstrably successful interventions. A financing plan and institutional
development strategy for implementing the long-term strategy should also be specified.

2.       Rationale for Bank involvement
The World Bank partnered with the World Health Organization in2004 to producethe
World Report on Road Traffic InjuryPrevention, demonstrating both organizations'
recognition o froad safety as a major world health issue. The Bank, by virtue o fthis
experience and commitment, and its substantial engagement inthe road sector inVietnam
inthe past 11years, iswell-placed to work withthe Vietnamese onroadsafety. The
design o fthe project also takes into considerationthe findings o f the TSSR and i s
consistent insize and scope with objectives described inthe CAS Progress Report for
Vietnam (2004).




                                                3

3.      Higher-leveI objectives to which the project contributes
The project will assist inreachingthe CAS objective o f supportingVietnam's high-
growth strategy by addressing the immediate need to reduce the rates o f road accidents,
injuries, and fatalities inVietnam. This will reduce road accident-related health shocks
that pushpeople into poverty or make escape from poverty difficult. Moreover, the
project will lower the health costs and economic inefficiencies resulting from road
crashes, as well as address the administrative, legal, and governance arrangements
requiredto improve road safety. The project will also buildup cross-sector capacity
among transport, health, education, andjudicial sectors, andwill integrate a wide array o f
World Bank- and other donor-fundedroad safety initiatives into a consistent safety
management framework.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION
1.      Lending instrument
A specific investment loan(SIL) was adopted to initiate a comprehensive road safety
effort inVietnam, although it is understood that a long-term commitment will be
necessary to sustain project outcomes. An adaptable program loan (APL)was rejected for
reasons outlined inSection B5.

2.      Project development objective and key indicators (Annex 3)
Program objective and phases
The project development objective is to reducethe rates o f accident, injury, and death
associated with roadtransport through physical improvement andinstitutional
development to strengthen the management o f roadtransport safety. The key
performance indicators are:

    i.Ratesofaccident,injury,anddeathonprojectroadcorridorsreduced;

    ii.Developmentandgovernmentapprovalofanationalroadsafetystrategy
        specifying achievable performance targets and a financing plan;

    iii.Driverbehaviorandcompliancewithvehicleandlicensingstandardsonproject
        road corridors improved; and

    iv. Monitoringand evaluation framework implemented inproject corridors andused
        to prioritize road safety interventions, andnational road accident database system
        (NRADS) established andupdated regularly.

3.      Project components
The project has three components: Institutional and Capacity BuildingProgram, Road
Safety Demonstration andAwareness Program, andRoad Safety Monitoring and
Evaluation Program.




                                               4

ComponentA. Institutionaland capacitybuildingprogram(US$7.84 million)
This component will provide technical assistanceandproject implementation support to
strengthen the management andtechnical capacity o fthe NTSC Executive Office, the
Traffic Safety Project Management Unit (TS PMU), the sub-PMUs, and corridor
supervision teams. This component will also support the preparation o f a performance-
based national road safety strategy, including a financing plan. This component has four
subcomponents:

A.1 Capacity building and implementation support (US$5.04million). This
subcomponent will finance an integrated package o ftechnical assistance to support
capacitybuildingand implementation across all project components and implementing
agencies. The following areas will be supported: (i) management and strategy support to
the NTSC and its Executive Office; (ii)  implementationsupport to the TS PMU; (iii)
technical and specialized studies to support sub-PMU teams; (iv) training; and (v)
development o f a targeted, performance-based national road safety strategy, including
financing plan.

A.2 Safeguards implementation support and independent monitoring (US$O.10million).
This subcomponent will provide consulting services and equipment as neededto support
the TS PMUwith the implementationofthe project Environmental Management Plan
(EMP) andResettlement PolicyFramework (RPF), andemploy anindependent agency to
monitor compliance with project safeguard policies.

A.3 NTSCequipment to support implementation (US$O.65 million). This subcomponent
will provide funds to purchase office equipment, vehicles, andother goods to ensure that
the NTSC Executive Office, TS PMU, and the sub-PMUs have adequate facilities to
carry out the project.

A.4 Operating costs and training (US$2.05 million). Funds will be used to cover NTSC's
operating costs duringimplementation (US$1.5 million) andprovide training related to
project implementation (US$0.55 million). These costs will be hlly financed by the
Government o fVietnam.

ComponentB.Roadsafetydemonstrationandawarenessprogram
(US$20.89 million)
This component will develop and implement comprehensive, integrated safety programs
along three high-risknational road corridors. The three demonstration corridors identified
for inclusion under the project are: (i)
                                       National Highway 1betweenHanoi andVinh (281
km); (ii)NationalHighway 1betweenH o ChiMinhCity and CanTho City (151km);
and (3) Highway 51 from Dong Nai province to Vung Tau (80 km).This component has
12 subcomponents.

B.1Blackspot treatmentprogram (US$3.75 million). This subcomponent will treat
blackspots on the three demonstration corridors. Sites to be treated inyears 2 to 4 o f the
blackspot treatment program will be selected by the Vietnam RoadAdministration
(VU), supportedbytechnical assistance providedunder subcomponent A1          .

                                             5

B.2Resettlement (US$O.81 million). This subcomponent will fundresettlement and land
acquisition costs associated with the implementation o f the blackspot program inthe
three demonstration corridors.

B.3 Design and construction supervision (US$O.14million). This subcomponent will
provide technical assistanceto VRA to support design and supervision services provided
under subcomponent B1. These services will include engineering surveys, construction
drawings and preliminary designs, specifications, cost estimates, andbiddingdocuments
for blackspot treatments. They will also include construction supervision services to
ensure efficient andhigh-quality execution o fthe works.

B.4 Vehicle inspection computer system upgrade (US$l.55 million). This subcomponent
will support the Vietnam Register inupgrading its national vehicle inspectionsystem
(computer and communications equipment, software development, and vehicle inspection
equipment) including specialized vehicle inspection equipment at three primary national
vehicle inspection stations (Hanoi, H o Chi MinhCity, and Vinh Long). It will also
support the provision o f equipment invehicle testing stations and equipment to conduct
mobile vehicle inspections inthe three demonstration corridors. This subcomponent will
be supported bytechnical assistanceprovided under subcomponent A1.

B.5Driver trainingand testing (UX31.25 million). This subcomponent will support the
VRA byprovidingequipment to improve the driver training centers at Chi Linhandin
DongNaiprovince and related facilities, according to the recommendations o f the
nationalreview of driver training, testing, and licensing systems that will be carried out
under subcomponent A1.

B.6Road safety audits and safety inspection (US$0.29million). This component provides
consulting services for VRA inroad safety audits4 andblackspot or black route
identification and treatment: (i)    developing, formalizing, and applying procedures; (ii)
working with the Traffic Police to specify data and evaluation and monitoring
requirements; and (iii)     identifying and investigatingblackspots andblack routes,
designingtreatments, andmonitoring and evaluationo f treatment effectiveness.

B.7Demonstration corridor safety enforcement (US$3.85 million). This subcomponent
will support the Traffic Police through the provision o f vehicles and equipment to
implement a general-deterrence road safety enforcement program inthe three
demonstration corridors. The design, implementation, and evaluation o f the program will
be supported through technical assistance andtraining provided under subcomponent A1.

B.8 Road user education and awareness (US$3.17 million). This subcomponent will
support a program o froad user education andpublic awareness inthe three
demonstration corridors, using targeted social marketing techniques. The program will be
coordinated with police enforcement activities under subcomponent B6, to maximize



 A road safety audit is an assessmento f the safety aspects o f road design and operation and the
 development o f remedial measures.



                                                     6

impact on road user behaviors. The design, implementationand evaluation o f the
program will be supported by technical assistance provided under subcomponent A1

B.9Road safety educationprogram (US81.45 million). This subcomponent will support
the provision of school road safety education materials, equipment, and associated
training for a program of primary, secondary, and tertiary road safety education inthe
three demonstration corridors. The design, implementation, and evaluationo f the
program will be supported by technical assistance provided under subcomponent A1,

B.10Road accident emergency treatment (US$l.61 million). This subcomponent will
support the provision o fmaterials, equipment, andtraining for an emergency medical
services program inthe three demonstrationcorridors. The design, implementation, and
evaluation o f the program will be supported with technical assistance provided under
subcomponent A1.

B.I1 Operatingcosts (US82.07million). These funds will cover operations during
implementationof the road safety demonstrationand awareness program, including for
NTSC, TS PMU, Vietnam Register, VRA and the ministries o fPublic Security,
Education andTraining, andHealth.

B.12 Consulting services (US80.96 million). This subcomponent will fimdlocal
consulting services and other costs associated with the operation o fproject sub-PMUs in
the various project line ministries, and eligible expenses related to field supervision o f the
three demonstration corridors.

ComponentC. RoadSafetyMonitoringandEvaluationProgram(US$6.20 million)
This component will support development o f the National RoadAccident Database
System (NRADS) and a comprehensive program o fproject corridor monitoring and
evaluation. This component has two subcomponents.

C.1National Road Accident Database System (US84.42 million). This subcomponent
will support the buildingo fthe NRADS, including the purchase o f equipment, software,
andassociated systems, andtraining ($4.38 million). The buildinghousing the NRADS
facility will also be upgraded under this component ($45,000). Development o f the
functional requirements for the system, preparation o fbiddingdocuments, evaluation o f
bids andproject implementationwill be supported with technical assistance provided
under subcomponent A1.

C.2Demonstration corridor monitoring and evaluation (US81.77 million). This
subcomponent will support consulting services to carry out the necessary data collection
andsurveys inthe three demonstrationcorridors, according to the agreed monitoring and
evaluation framework. The detailed survey design and training required for effective
implementationo f the monitoring and evaluation program will be supported with
technical assistanceprovided under subcomponent A1




                                              7

4.      Lessonslearnedandreflectedinthe projectdesign
Although the Bankhas supported road safety components inmany transport projects,
including highwayprojects inVietnam, this i s its first stand-alone road safety project.
The previous two IDA-supportedhighway projects inVietnam were the Highway
Rehabilitation Project, completed inDecember 2001,and the Second Highway
RehabilitationProject, completed in2003. The proposed project reflects the lessons
leamed from these projects. The NF'TS i s based largely on output from the first project,
and experience with treating blackspots under the second is included inthe design o f
coordinated technical assistance for design and construction supervision, as well as the
integration o f the identificationprocess with the phasing o f the NRADS.

The project was designed inaccordance with the recommendations o f the World Report
on Road Traffic InjuryPrevention:

    1.    Make road safety a political priority. This stand-alone road safety project
          reflects the highlevel o fpolitical support inVietnam for improving road safety.
    ..
    11.   Appoint a lead agency for road safety, give it adequate resources, andmake it
          publicly accountable. The project supports the government's vision o fworking
          through line ministryprograms but ensuring accountability and coordination
          through NTSC.
    ...
    111.  Develop a multidisciplinary approach to road safety. Project implementation
          involves the VRA and the ministries o fPublic Security, Education and
          Training, andHealth, which also participate inthe NTSC.

    iv.   Set appropriate road safety targets andestablish a national road safety planto
          achieve them. The project will develop, through demonstration on project road
          corridors, a cost-effective, long-term, performance-based national road safety
          strategy.

    V.    Support the creation o f advocacy groups. The project supports the creation o f
          the Consultative Council for the many existing road safety advocacy groups,
          the private sector, andNGOs to provide advice to NTSC on road safety
          initiatives.

    vi.   Create budgets for road safety and increase investment indemonstrably
          effective road safety activities. The government has steadily increased the road
          safety budget inrecent years, and the project demonstrates the government's
          commitment to fund effective investments. The demonstration corridors will
          show the effectiveness o f road safety initiatives before they are replicated
          throughout the country.

A 2003 study, Scalingup Road Safety inWorld Bank Programsinthe Africa Region,
provided lessons that could be applied to other regions. The design o f this project also
aligns with the conclusions o fthis study:



                                               8

    1.    Strong commitment from national andlocal authorities as well as from the
          World Bank is a prerequisite for long-term sustainability o froad safety
          interventions; this commitment must be reflected inadequate hnding and in
          institutional consistency and continuity on all sides.
     ..
    11.   Road safety is a cross-cutting issue; multidisciplinary capabilities and
          multisector cooperation are needed to ensure overall effectiveness o froad
          safety strategies.
     ...
    111.  The design o f transport infrastructure-from     the earliest planning stages-
          should focus on limitingcrash and injury risks and take into consideration
          pedestrians and nonmotorized traffic, especially the most vulnerable roadusers
          (children).

    iv.   Law enforcement must target the main safety rules andmust treat road users
          equally to establish credibility; to do so, officers need adequate training and
          equipment.

    V.    Road safety is part o f a poverty reduction strategy.

5.      Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
Project component or stand-alone project. The project was originally identifiedas a
US$4.2 millioncomponent o f the RoadNetwork Improvement Project (approved by the
World Bank's Boardo f ExecutiveDirectors inDecember 2003). InSeptember 2003,
givenVietnam's pressingroad safety problem, the government proposedthat the road
safety component be expanded into a stand-alone US$25 million project (increased
duringpreparation to US$31.73 million). The Banksupported this proposalbecause it
offered several advantages. First, road safety components o f larger projects have had little
impact on overall road safety statistics. International experience points to a need to apply
a cross-sector approach that i s difficult to implement as part o f a roadproject. Second, a
stand-alone project allows for establishment o f a multisector framework to address safety
issues, while ensuring accountability for road safety outcomes.

Policy reformor investment. The 2003 TSSR considered all aspects o froad safety in
Vietnam ina long-term context, assessingsafety management practices, outcomes, and
national policies, andusinginternational best practices as a benchmark. It determinedthat
the policy framework inVietnam i s adequate for moving to the first phase o f investment.
Italso notedthat demonstratingsuccessful techniques wouldbe an effective tool for
developing policy reform initiatives that could be implemented either during or after the
project.

National roll-out or demonstration. Concentrating onjust three demonstration corridors
rather thanimplementing activities throughout the country allows better coordination
between activities for implementation as well as effectiveness, andmore efficient
measurement for evaluation. Project activities buildon ongoing andplannedgovernment
initiatives to avoid overlap andduplication and maximize capacity buildingopportunities.



                                                9

Demonstratingwhich road safety initiatives work andwhich do not is also essential to
developing a potential follow-on project andbuildingpolitical support for policy reform.

S I L or APL. A long-term vision for improving road safety inVietnam does not yet exist,
and consensus among government, NGOs, andcivil society i s needed. An S I L was
therefore judged the best instrumentto demonstrate a framework and modalities for
managing road safety inVietnam before a commitment was made to a particular set o f
future actions and targets. Furthermore, because no systematic analysis has been
conducted inVietnam to assess what could reasonably be achieved during each phase o f
investment, the quantitative information needed to develop andmonitor fundingtriggers
under anAPL didnot yet exist. The current project, byestablishing a long-term
framework and strengthening critical relationships, will lay the groundwork necessary for
development of anAPL iffurther IDA assistance is sought.

C. IMPLEMENTATION
1.      Partnershiparrangements(if applicable)
The NTSC has agreed to establish a Consultative Council made up o f government, NGO,
andprivate sector representatives to coordinate nongovernmentalroad safety activities.
Although the council will not have direct project implementation responsibility, it will
work with the NTSC Executive Office to advise on managerialandtechnical aspects o f
the project.

Donors coordinate activities and share information inregular transport sector partnership
meetings. Duringpreparationthe project team heldregular meetings with local
representatives of Asia InjuryPreventionFoundation, Global Road Safety Partnership,
BP (Vietnam), Shell, FrenchRed Cross, WorldHealth Organization, New Zealand AID,
Japan InternationalCooperation Agency (JICA), JBIC, and Asian Development Bank.

2.      Institutionalandimplementationarrangements
TheNTSCwill act as executing agency for the project and will be responsiblefor overall
project management and oversight. The Executive Office o f the NTSC will support the
NTSC incarrying out its management and oversight responsibilities.

The NTSC has established a Traffic Safety Project Management Unit (TS PMU) to
implement the project. The TS P M Uwill be responsible for coordinating and overseeing
project implementation, including procurement, financial management, project
monitoring andreporting, andday-to-day supervision o fproject activities.

Eachproject participating agency (the Ministries ofPublic Security, Education and
Training, andHealth, the VRA and the Vietnam Register under the Ministry o f Transport,
andtheNTSC Executive Office) will establish and staff a sub-PMUto implementits part
ofthe project. Sub-PMUs will be responsible for technical decisions and management of
their respective subcomponents with support from local and intemational experts, as
needed. Sub-PMUswill be represented on the project steering committee andwill
interact on day-to-day implementation issues with the TS PMU.



                                            10

Two supervision teams will be established to take responsibility for the day-to-day
supervision of implementationo fthe demonstration corridor program, including
interactionwith local authorities: one for the northern demonstrationcorridor and one for
the southern demonstrationcorridors. They will report to the TS PMU.

The NTSC has established a project steering committee to ensure strategic project
coordination across project agencies. The project steering committee will be chaired by a
vice minister o f Transport and supported by the NTSC Executive Office and TS PMU.
The project steering committee will be responsible for regular monitoring and evaluation
o fproject implementation and for guidingthe overall strategic direction o f the project.
Representatives come from all project participating agencies, the State Bank o f Vietnam,
the Ministry o f Finance, the Ministry o f Planningand Investment, and the Ministry o f
Transport's Planning and Investment Department.

The proposed structure for project implementationis depicted inFigure 1.

                                           I  NationalTraffic I




                                              Traffic Safety
                                                Project                 ProvincialTraffic    Consultative
                                           I  Management              Safety Department       Council
                                                  Unit       I        I         A'




                                            Demonstration
     Sub-PMUs         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _     Corridor
                                              Supervision


                                   Reportingrelationship
  ....................             Liaison,advisory, or coordination relationship


                                            Figure 1:Project OrganizationalStructure
The following additional government agencies will have supporting roles:

     i. TheMinistryofNaturalResourcesandEnvironment,withsupportfromlocal
          authorities, will ensure compliance with all government instructions relating to
          environmental protection andwill monitor implementation o f the EMPwith
          support from the independent monitoring agency retained by the TS PMU.




                                                               11

   11. The Ministryo f Finance will allocate adequate
   ..                                                       funds to the project on a timely
        basis andwill deposit government counterpart funds into the executing agency
        trust account for the project.

   111. People's Committees at
    ...                            the provincial level, through local resettlement
        committees, will assist the TS PMUinland acquisition andresettlement.

   iv. Provincial traffic safety departments and local traffic safety committees will work
        with the TS PMUandcorridor supervision teams to implement Component B.

3.      Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results
The project will be monitoredusinga comprehensive monitoring and evaluation
framework, described inthe Project ImplementationPlan (PIP)5.The objective o f
monitoring and evaluation will be to assess the effectiveness o f project interventions and
make necessary changes to ensureproject objectives are achieved.

Monitoring and evaluation will focus on the demonstrationcorridors although the
procedures apply to all levels o f the roadnetwork. The project has the following four
levels o f monitoring and evaluation:

   i.Overallprojectimplementation-Key              development impact indicators will be used
        for measuring progress inreachingproject objectives, key indicators will be used
        for monitoring physical implementationprogress, andkey financial indicators will
        be usedto assess the project's budgetary and financial health.

   ii.Projectsocialandenvironmentalaspects-The               monitoring framework i s
        described inthe social and environmental assessments.

   iii.Effectiveness ofprojectinterventionsonroadaccidents,fatalities, andinjurieson
        demonstration corridors.

   iv. Effectivenesso findividual blackspot andblack route treatments.

The project steering committee and TS PMUwill be responsible for monitoring project
implementationwith support from the implementing agency. Every six months, the
TS PMUwill issue a summary report to the NTSC and the World Bank, tracking changes
inroadsafety andrelatedvariables such asprimaryoutcomes, intermediateoutcomes,
and intervention levels. The TS PMUwill be assisted bythe technical assistance
consultants employed for each agency inpreparing this report, synthesizing data from the
agencies as well as reports from design, supervision, and social and environmental
monitoring consultants.

TS PMUand VRA will prepare annual work programs andbudgets for the blackspot
treatment program for the Bank's prior review, as well as regular supervision reports
duringthe execution o fcivil works.


 Vietnam Road Safety Project, Project ImplementationPlan, Annex 16-Monitoring and Evaluation
 Guidelines


                                                 12

Allmonitoring informationwillbe disaggregated annually to the project and
demonstration corridor levels andwill be shared with provincial authorities.

Each o f the annual reports will briefly describe exceptional events and conditions
identified duringthe monitoring process as well as indications o f the actions to be taken
inresponseto eachofthese events. ThePSCwill review the annualand six month
monitoring reports andrecommend actions to be taken.

The project will hold a project launch workshop about the time o fproject effectiveness.

4.      Sustainability
Sustainability o fthe project depends primarily on the project's successful demonstration
o f cost-effective approaches to improving road safety, andon the government's
commitment to buildingthe accountability and capacity o f relevant ministries. The
sustainability o fphysical works will requirethat road safety audits andblackspot
identification and treatment become an integralpart o fNRADS development and
application. Finally, the government's commitment to developing andmonitoring a long-
term national safety strategy andto fundingroad safety initiatives will be needed.

5.      Critical risksand possible controversialaspects
A possible controversial aspect o fthe project is traffic safety enforcement. Worldwide
experience with intensive traffic enforcement i s mixed, particularly when enforcement i s
seen as corrupt, aggressive, or intrudingonpersonal freedoms or rights. At the same time,
a general consensus i s emerging that other road safety interventions, particularly road
user education andpublic awareness campaigns, have little effect on reducing road
accidents unless they are supported by rigorous and consistent enforcement o f traffic
laws. The risk for controversy about project traffic safety initiatives is low, however,
because the project will be implementedinthe context o f already strict enforcement and
will concentrate on improving, rather than increasing, enforcement. The project will also
support public education and awareness campaigns about the importance o f traffic laws
on road safety.

                                     Critical Project Risks

                                        Risk
                  Risk                 Level                        Risk Mitiaation
 Agency accountabilities unclear       H        NTSCwill serve as executing agency and reportto the
                                                National Assembly and the deputy prime ministerabout
                                                project performance.A projectsteering committee has
                                                been establishedto clarify accountability and ensure
                                                coordination. Multi-agencysupervision teams will be
                                                used to implementand monitor demonstration corridor
                                                programs.




                                               13

                                                 Risk
                     Risk                       Level                         Risk Mitigation
Enforcementineffective and/or lacks public      H       Technicalassistanceis providedto support
support.                                                developmentof improved enforcementstrategies based
                                                        on NRADSaccident data and international best
                                                        practice.Publicawareness and informationsharing of
                                                        corridor results will build public support.

Improperidentificationand designof              M       Processto be tested in demonstrationcorridorsand
blackspots.                                             identificationto be based on road accident database.

NRADS is not implemented in a way that          M       The projectsteering committeewill establishand
fully meets all user needs and is not kept up           overseefunctional requirements. Biddingwill be carried
to date.                                                out using the Bank's Standard Bidding Documentfor
                                                        two-stage bidding of ITsystems, which is considered
                                                        internationalbest practice and has been used
                                                        successfullyin previous Bank-financedproject in
                                                        Vietnam.

Lack of sustainability.                         M       Demonstrationapproach is meantto garner
                                                        commitment for new approaches. A second phase road
                                                        safety plan, includingfinancing plan, will be developed.

Professionalskill shortages in sub-PMUs         M       Projectfunds will support hiring of local consulting
are not addressed.                                      services to supplementcurrent skills. On the job
                                                        training will be provided by NTSC advisory consultant.

Effective roles for NGOs and the private        M       A ConsultativeCouncil to support NTSC technical and
sector are not defined.                                 managementdecision makingwill be established
                                                        beforethe projectstarts, with representationfrom public
                                                        and NGOs active in road safety in Vietnam.

Lack of policy reform in key areas of road      N       The projectwill work within the existing policy
law, such as drunk driving, helmet use, etc.            framework. Demonstrationis seen as effective means
                                                        for further reform.

Projectcoordinationand management               S       A detailed PIP has been developed and will be formally
arrangements are ineffective.                           adopted by each project participating agency as a
                                                        condition of project effectiveness. Project advisory
                                                        services will be provided to the implementingagency
                                                        and NTSC to support implementation.

OVERALL RISK LEVEL                              M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (SubstantialRisk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
6.       Creditconditionsandcovenants
Besides the standard requirements, the following conditions have been set for credit
effectiveness:

    i.NTSChasfinalizedandadoptedthePIP.

    ii.TSPMUhasestablishedacomputerizedfinancialmanagementsystemforthe
         project, including design o f the chart o f accounts and installation of software to
         produce financial monitoring reports.

    iii.TSPMUstaffhasreceivedtraininginthefinancialmanagementsystemandin
         the Bank's financial management, disbursement, andprocurement procedures.


                                                       14

    iv. A financial management officer and a full-timeaccountant havebeen appointed at
         TS PMU.

    v. The Consultative Council andthe sub-PMUshavebeen established.

    vi. The PrimeMinister has instructedNTSC andthe participating agencies to
         develop and implementa detailed mechanism for sharing information about
         improvingroad safety.

    vii. NTSC has trainedthe staff of all participating agencies on procurement.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY
1.       Economic and financial analyses
Project beneficiaries include roadusers, roadside communities, andbusinesses inthe
demonstration corridors, and to a lesser extent, those outside the corridors who will
subsequently benefit from improvedmanagement o f the sector.

The main direct economic benefits o f the project come from the expected reductions in
social costs resulting from reduced numbers and severity o f fatalities and injuries caused
byroad accidents. These benefits include:

    i.Reductionintheincidenceandseverityofroadaccidentinjuryanddeathandthe
         associated cost to individuals and the Vietnamese economy;
    ii.Costsavingsfromgreatereffectivenessofroadsafetyinterventions, whichstems
         from increased institutional capacity to monitor, evaluate, and manage road safety
         at both the national androadnetwork levels;
    iii.Reductioninthepublicresourceswastedbyroadaccidents,includingtemporary
         or permanent loss and diversion o f humanresources, consumption o f medical
         resources, and damage or destruction o fproperty; and
    iv. Improved efficiency o froadtransport due to reducedeconomic inefficiencies
         resulting from road accident trauma.

The main costs of the project are the costs o f civil works (blackspot treatments) and
purchase of vehicles, equipment, andmaterials. Economic costs total approximately
US$29.5 million as compared with the total financial cost o f the project o f US$35.89
million. This does not include benefits that couldnot be valued directly inmonetary
terms, and were therefore not included inthe cost-benefit analysis. Suchbenefits include
improvements inthe administrative, legal, and governance arrangements inthe long term
as the result o f capacity buildingacross the transport, health, education and public
security sectors.

The estimated net present value o f the project, usingthe very conservative accident cost
values documented inTechnical Note No. 6 from the Vietnam Road Safety Improvement
Study carried out under HRP1, the currently reported ratio o f injuries to fatalities, and




                                              15

best estimates o fthe effect o fproject interventions i s US$23.13 million, yielding an
economic internal rate o f return (EIRR) o f 34 percent.

Sensitivity analysis and switching values show that the economic justification for the
project i s robust. Details o f the economic and financial analyses are provided inAnnex 9.

2.       Technical
The project raises no major technical issues. The technicalrequirements for
implementation, although challenging, are well-grounded ininternational and local
experience, and a team o f technical experts will assist inmeeting them. The procurement
o f informationtechnology systems will follow the Bank's standard biddingprocedures
for two-stage biddingprocess, which has been shown to improve technical outcomes for
complex IT system development. The following maintechnical considerations were
incorporatedinto project design:

     0   Design and implementation arrangements for the NRADS;

     0   Identification and selection o fblackspots and design and delivery o f
         interventions;

     0   Development andimplementation o f improved general-deterrence traffic-
         enforcement strategies; and

     0   Improvement o f emergency medical services.

3.       Fiduciary
The World Bank team conducted a financial management assessment duringproject
preparation inNovember 2004 (see project files). The scope o f the work was set out in
the Assessment o f Financial Management Arrangements inWorld Bank-financed
Projects-Guidelines      to Staff, issued bythe FinancialManagement Sector Board and
dated October 15,2003. The objective o f the review was to assess the suitability o f the
project financial management system as required bythe Bank under OP/BP 10.02with a
view to implementing the proposedproject.

The assessment concluded that the implementing agency, the TS PMU, had limited
experience inmeeting financial management requirements o f the project because it does
not have experience implementing an IDAproject. The following weaknesses were
identified: (i)lack o f adequately skilled staff; (ii) o f suitable accounting software;
                                                     lack
and (iii) lack o f a financial management manual. Inaddition, the TS PMUdoes not have
a computerizedaccounting system to produce the financial statements and monitoring
reportsrequired by IDA. To remedy these shortcomings, an actionplanwas developed
and agreedwith the implementing agency (see Annex 7)andwill be implemented before
credit effectiveness. A special account will be opened for TS PMU. Traditional
disbursement techniques will be used. Independent auditors acceptable to IDA will be
retainedto audit project accounts on an annual basis inaccordance with IDA policy.




                                               16

4.      Social
The NTSC carried out extensive consultationwith communities along the selected roads
duringthe social assessment survey (see Social Assessment datedNovember 2004in
project files). The social assessment found that respondents to the social survey expected
the main social development outcomes o f the project to be improved pedestrianandroad
user safety. Because traffic accidents are the leadingcause o f death among children, the
project is expected to benefit them and other vulnerable groups such as women andthe
elderly inparticular. The social assessmentreflects the stakeholders' comments and
suggestions.

Potentialnegative social impacts include small-scale land acquisition andresettlement. A
detailed census and an inventory o f affected assets have been completed for the first-year
work program (treatment o f eight blackspots), which found that at one blackspot site
(Nghe An province) 10households (52 people) will lose agricultural andresidential land,
structures, trees, andcrops inthe first year o f works implementation at one site. None of
the displacedpeople will be severely affected or require relocation. An abbreviated
resettlement action plan (RAP) for the first year blackspot requiring land acquisition has
been prepared, cleared by the Bank, and disclosed publicly.

For subsequent years, blackspots to be treated have yet to be identified. However,
impacts will be similar to those o fthe first-year program. To address potential
resettlement issues insubsequent years, the government has adopted a project RPF, and
RAPSwill bepreparedas work programs are identified (see Annex 10).

The TS PMU andprovincial and district authorities will work with provincial committees
to ensure implementation o f the RAPSandwill be responsible for monitoring social
development outcomes. The project will monitor social development impacts during
implementation using the project monitoring and evaluation framework (see Section C3).
An independent monitoring agency will monitor compliance.

An evaluation is proposedtwo to three years after completion o fresettlement to
determine whether the project-affected people's incomes and livelihood have improved
or at least beenrestoredto pre-project levels. Additional assistance will be provided to
those who have not been able to restore their incomes.

5.      Environment
The project has been rated as an environmental category B.An environmental
assessment, prepared inaccordance with World Bank policies, found that the project will
have a positive long-tenn environmental impact because it will substantially improve
road safety inthe demonstration corridors. Its negative environmental impacts are
expected to be minor and limited to the blackspot treatment component, which includes
small civil works such as installation o f guard rails, signage, and rumble strips;
construction oftraffic islands and segregated traffic lanes; and minor road widening and
improvementsto accommodate pedestrian paths and improve site distances and
curvature.



                                               17

IDA field investigations confirmedthe findings ofthe environmental assessment, finding
no undisturbedhabitat o f special-status wildlife inthe project area or immediate environs.
The project proposes no bypass, realignment, or other action inundisturbed areas. N o
long-term impact to area soils from increased pollutant levels i s anticipated. Changes to
hydrological characteristics are not considered significant. N o Ethnic Minoritiesreside in
the project area.

An EMP, taking into consideration the findings o fthe environmental assessment, has also
beenprepared. The EMPincludes a policy framework and guidelines for environmental
assessment and impact mitigation for annual work programs as they are identified. The
policy framework outlines studies and actions that may be requiredto ensure that a work
package contains the environmental and social information needed to determine ifthe
works are likelyto have significant environmental impact or require land or asset
acquisition or resettlement, and that the works meet the Bank's environmental and social
requirements. Roadworks with minor impacts will use the standard operating procedures
outlined inthe EMP. It is not expected that any works will have serious environmental
impacts. The TS PMUand provincial and district authorities will be responsible for
ensuring implementation o fthe EMP, mainly by monitoring o f contractor activities.

The environmental assessment andEMP specify civil works contract provisions
governing the sources o f constructionmaterials (such as sand and gravel) and the means
o f transport, measures for timely site stabilization and erosion control, and use o f
pesticides or chemicals to control vegetation. The EMP also includes stipulations on spill
prevention and cleanup, dust andnoise control, traffic management during construction,
safety enhancement, and construction site cleanup and rehabilitation. Although no
cultural relics have been identified, the contract documents will include provisions for
handling chance finds o frelics. The cost o f implementing the EMP at the work-package
level will be included inthe cost o f civil works contracts.

The EMPrequires air, water, andnoise monitoring. Reporting o f environmental
parameters (e.g., dust, safety, and sanitation) will be included insite diaries routinely
maintainedby the construction supervision consultants and environmental units o f the
implementing agencies andreported inprogress reports. Frequencies, parameters,
locations, and methods are detailed inthe EMP. Reporting on environmental monitoring
will be standardized, and monitoring data will be submittedto local environmental
authorities.

The NTSC, with assistance o f a consulting team, carried out extensive consultation with
communities along the selected roads duringthe preliminary identification o fblackspots
(see Report on Public Consultation, November 2004, inproject files) Comments and
concerns raisedduringpublic consultation were taken into account indetermining an
approach to the project environmental assessment and EMP, location ofblackspots to be
treated, blackspot treatments, andmonitoring framework.




                                               18

6.       Safeguard policies
 Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                  Yes                No
 Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                     [XI                [ I
 NaturalHabitats (OPBP 4.04)                                                   [I
 PestManagement (OP 4.09)                                                      [I
 Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11)                        [ I
 InvoluntaryResettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                         [XI
 Indigenous Peoples(OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                         [I
 Forests(OP/BP 4.36)                                                           [ I
 Safety o fDams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                   [I
 Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                     [ I
 Projects on Intemational Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                            [ I


7.       Policy Exceptions andReadiness
Nopolicy exceptions are required.

The project i s ready for implementation.Engineering designs for blackspots to be
implementedinthe first year oftheproject havebeenpreparedandagreedwith the Bank.
All of these willbeimplementedusingforce account or shoppingproceduresbecauseof
their small size and dispersed nature andthe needto quickly launch the safety initiatives
on the demonstration corridors. Terms o freference for all project-related technical
assistance have been prepared and are includedinthe draft PIP.




* By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the
 parties' claims on the disputed areas.



                                                    19


                 Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background
                             VIETNAM: Road Safety Project



The government's development objectives, as well as concrete actions to achieve them,
are presented inthe country's Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy
(CPRGS), which i s based on its medium-term (2001-2010) development strategy. The
CPRGS has three pillars: (i)   highgrowth throughtransition to amarket economy; (ii)      an
equitable, socially inclusive, and sustainable pattern o f growth; and (iii) the adoption o f
modernpublic administration, legal, and governance systems.

Vietnam has hadone o f the fastest growing economies inthe world inrecent years, and
poverty has declined rapidly inthe past five years. Despite these gains, an estimated 29
percent o f the population livedbelow the poverty line in2002. Furthermore, a large
proportion o f the population livesjust above the poverty line and is vulnerable to falling
into poverty with even minor changes ineconomic circumstances.

Economic growth has been accompanied by traffic growth. Since 1990, the number o f
automobiles has increased two-and-a-half times and the number o f motorcycles has
increased eight-and-a-halftimes. Yet motorization levels inVietnam are still low,
indicating that vehicle ownership will continue to increase rapidly for many more years.
Vehicle stocks have risen 5-10 percent per year recently.

The transport safety situation inVietnam is poor and deteriorating. Road fatalities
increased 39 percent in2000/2001 and22 percent in2001/2002. The number o f fatalities
from road accidents inthe first two months o f 2004 is 51 percent higher than inthe same
period o f 2003.Vietnam has an official fatality and injuryrate o f over 12 per 10,000
vehicles, which gives it one o f the most dangerous road safety environments inthe
region. Fatalities are particularly common among young motorcycle users. A recent
World Bankhealth sector review inVietnam showed that intracerebral hemorrhage
(common to motorcycle accident victims) has become the major cause o fhospital death
inVietnam.6Mostmotorcycle accident victims are young, andhospitalstatistics suggest
that between 30-50 percent die as the result o f their injuries.

Recent Road Safety Developments
Vietnam's 2002-20 12National Policy on Accident and InjuryPrevention notes that
injuries relatedto road accidents are notjust a transport sector issue, but part o f a wider
national injurycrisis. Transport safety, especially road safety, therefore has become a
highpriorityfor the government. Coordination arrangements havebeenput inplacewith
the establishment o f the National Traffic Safety Committee (NTSC), demonstrating the
government's commitment to improving cross-sector dialogue betweenthe transport,
health, and education sectors.



 Vietnam- Growinghealthy:a reviewo fVietnam's health sector, World Bank. 2001



                                             21

The government also prepared the National Program for Traffic Safety (NPTS)' andthe
Vietnam Road Sector project. The NPTS covers the period 2001-2005 and has set the
objective o f reducing the annual growth rate o ftraffic accidents from 8 percent to
4 percent by 2005. It calls for the following policy andphysical interventions:

    0   Education andpublicity campaigns for traffic safety improvement;

    0   Application o froad safety audits on newlyimproved, upgraded or built roads;

    0   Definition and treatment o fblackspots;

    0   Development o f a traffic accident reporting and analysis database;

    0   Replanning the system of training and licensing o f drivers;

    0   Forming andbuildingup o f first-aid stations for traffic accidents; and

    0   Mechanizing andmodernizing the system for registering motorized vehicles.

These interventions are funded by government budgets, driver training and licensing fees,
insurance, and official development assistance.

Transport Safety Strategy Review
In2003, the World Bank conducted a transport safety strategy review (TSSR) to assess
government programs and approaches to road safety; set out short-, medium-, and long-
term strategies to address deterioratingroad safety inVietnam; and guide World Bank
investments for the next 15 years. InJune 2003, the World Bank and the government
discussed the findings o f the TSSR and the main issues inthe sector.

Capacity and accountability. The most pressing need inroad safety is to strengthen the
capacity, resources, and skills o f the NTSC and its executive office. The legal framework
restricts NTSC's role to coordination, leaving responsibility for implementationwith
central government agencies, other relevant organizations, andprovincial andmunicipal
People's Committees, which limits accountability. Furthermore, funding streams are
uncertain, andmonitoring i s not carried out. Donors, private businesses, and
nongovernmentalorganizations (NGOs) also develop projects, but these are not
incorporatedinto a cohesive program. The NTSC executive office has recently received
increased funding and additional responsibility as road safety has become a pressing
political and social issue.

Knowledge and awareness of road safety. Because motorization inVietnam has
increased so rapidly, the public sector response has emphasized basic traffic management
functions such as driver licensing andvehicle inspection and registration. International
experience, however, suggests that suchprograms, although important for general
standards settingand administration, have only a marginal impact on accident and fatality
rates inthe short term. To curb rapidly rising accident and fatality rates, targeted, cost-
effective measures that have an immediate impact, such as speed-limit and drunk-driving

 National Programfor Trafic Safe@,2001 -2005 Period, Socialist Republic o fVietnam, Ministry of
 Transport, Hanoi, June 2001


                                             22

enforcement, separation o f traffic, and motorcycle helmet law enforcement, must be
identified and implemented.

Furthermore, public awareness o froad safety must change. For example, alcohol appears
to be a bigger traffic safety problemthan is officially acknowledged, but little attempt has
been made to deter drunk drivers. Furthermore, laws requiring motorcycle helmets and
imposing speed limits are seen as ineffective or inconflict with personal freedom. And
finally, inthe face o fpoor traffic behavior, traffic police also lack knowledge and
incentives for developing more effective policing strategies, have limitedresources, and
see their job largely as the apprehension o f offenders rather than the deterrence o f unsafe
behavior.

Framework for long-term action. Despite its breadth, the NPTS lacks a method for
setting priorities or an effective framework for monitoring and evaluation. Experience
from other countries has shownthat improving road safety requires a consistent 20- or
30-year effort. The NPTS i s a 5-year strategy andtherefore should be seen as the first
phase o f a longer-term strategy. Business planning processes and financial management
and performance monitoring systems must be put inplace to support such a long-term
strategy, and the first phase o f such a strategy should lead to consensus among
stakeholders and public sector agencies on how to proceed with a fully funded, long-term
action planbased on demonstrably successful interventions. A financing plan for
implementing the strategy should also be specified.

Long-term traffic safety framework
The TSSR proposes a three-stage framework for Bank-funded road safety interventions
inVietnam to achieve the following vision: "Within 15 years Vietnam willbuildarobust
safety management system that produces best practice safety outcomes on a controllable
andsustainable basis."

                              Summaryof Road SafetyStrategy Program

         Phase                                              Objective

  Shortterm (next     Take control of the traffic situation by improvingsafety standardsand rules and related
  5 years)-           compliance in targeted high-risk corridors
  Establishment     * Address legislativeamendmentsto the RoadAct
                       Begindevelopingcomprehensiveanalysis tools
                       Review all elementsof the safety managementsystem
                       Prepare roll-outstrategies for the next phase

  Mediumterm           Put in place a robust performance managementframework for all participating
  (next 10            agencies
  Years)-  Growth      Implementthe findings of short-termreviews
                       Initiatesafety programssystematicallyacrossthe country




                                                      23

      Phase                                              Objective

 Long term (next        Establishan independent national safety agency and dedicated funding arrangements
 15years)-              Continueto implementsafety programsand devolve performancemanagementto the
 Consolidation          district level
                        Improvemanagementand operational efficiencies
                        Upgradeand extend safety programsand seek opportunitiesfor future safety
                        innovations


Interms o fsafety standards, compliance, andinstitutional capacity, Vietnam's
circumstances are not unique. Limitedbudgets and a shortage o f road safety skills mean
that lower standards o f safety are the norm inmany low- and middle-income countries.
The proposed strategy aims inthe short term to dramatically lift road user and vehicle
compliance with current safety standards, while related measures are taken, withinbudget
constraints, to improve these standards inthe medium to long term.

Each five-year phase creates the knowledge and experience necessary to move to the next
phase. For example, before national, city andprovincial performance targets can be set,
data analysis tools must be built and quality data collected. Similarly, sustainable funding
mechanisms cannot be identifiedbefore cost-effective approaches havebeen identified
and robust business planning processes and financial management systems established.

Integral to the strategy's design i s the need for a break-through process inthe first phase
to address the urgency o f the safety situation inVietnam andmobilize all partners and
stakeholders whose participation i s critical to the achievement o f the strategy's vision.
Without such a process it would be impossible to generate the experience and momentum
necessary to overcome the inertia o f current institutional arrangements and the apparent
indifference o f roadusers to the risks they face on Vietnam's roads. The Vietnam Road
Safety project aims to implementthis break-through process.

Vietnam Road Safety project
The project aims to bring about a substantial shifl from low levels o f road user
compliance with safety standards and rules to considerably higher levels o f compliance,
while starting on the work that aims inthe medium to longterm to improve safety
standards andrules and extendtheir application, further improve compliance ina robust
performance management framework, and consolidate implementation arrangements.

          Strengthen traffic safety coordination among government ministries and
          agencies. The project strengthens the NTSC Executive Office's ability to
          measure, monitor, and evaluate road safety and coordinate the road safety
          activities andprograms o f government agencies, NGOs, andthe private sector.
          The project also supports the NTSC's establishment o f a consultative council that
          includes NGOs and private sector organizations to facilitate their involvement in
          road safety initiatives.

          Improve enforcement of road safety laws. The government has recently called
          for more rigorous enforcement o f traffic laws and approved a doubling o f the


                                                  24

       number o ftraffic police. The project provides a sharper focus, equipment, and
        tactics for effective use o f traffic police resources.

   0    Increase publicity and education about the effects of road accidents and
        behavior to reduce the incidence and severity of road accidents. The project
        supports publicity and education efforts by reviewing content andmeans o f
        delivery, including school-based road safety education, and developing and
        providingimproved materials and training.

   0    Upgrade facilities for vehicle and driver testing and licensing. The project
        supports the upgrade o f management, facilities, and equipment for vehicle testing
        and inspection andtraining, testing, andlicensing drivers byreviewing
        management arrangements, facilities, procedures, and equipment, preparing an
        updated national development plan, andproviding equipment.

   0    Improve emergency medical services. The project supports the Ministry o f
        Health's modernization o f emergency medical services by providing assistance
        for a review o f the emergency medical situation and preparation o f a long-term
        development plan, providing emergency medical equipment, and training traffic
        police to administer first aid.

Although international experience will be usedto guide activities implemented on the
demonstrationcorridors, the safest countries have managed road safety improvements
over a longer and more manageable time. Vietnam's situation is different, and only a
learning-by-doing approach will identify safety solutions tailored to local circumstances
andsustainable on a longer-term basis.




                                                 25


        Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or otherAgencies
                                     VIETNAM: RoadSafety Project



                                              Bank-financed Projects

                                                                                            Supervision Ratings

              Ongoing                                       Sector Issue                         IP*         Dot
MekongTransport and Flood             Increasethe efficiencyof the surfacetransportation         MS          S
Protection (Cr.3448-VN)               system in the Mekong Delta

Second Rural Transport Project        Improveaccess to remoterural areas, sustainadequate         S          S
(Cr.3306-VN)                          maintenance
UrbanTransport Improvement Project Strengthen decentralizedauthority, expand capacity,            S          S
(Cr.3125-VN)                         and improveoperatingconditions of urbantransport
Road Network ImprovementProject       Improveroad managementand maintenancefunding                S          S
(Cr.3843-VN)                         for nationalroads

                                                                                              OED Evaluation

                                                                                             Out- Sustain-   ID
             Completed                                      Sector Issue                    come    ability Impact

Rural Transport Project (Cr.2929-VN) Improveaccess to remote rural areas, sustain adequate   S       S       S
                                      maintenance

Highway RehabilitationProject         Reducerehabilitationbacklog; build institutional       S       S       S
(Cr.2549-VN)                          capacity; review and improve regulation,standards, and
                                     traffic safety; strengthen road maintenanceoperations

Second Highway Rehabilitation         Reducerehabilitationbacklog; increasethe volume of     S       S        S
Project (Cr.NO13-VN)                  periodicmaintenance;build institutionalcapacity;
                                      improve regulationand improve traffic safety; improve
                                      rural access; strengthen environmentalprotection

               Pipeline                                     Sector Issue

MekongTransport Infrastructure
Development Project
Third RuralTransport Project

HS-Highly satisfactory;S-Satisfactory; MS-Moderately satisfactory; MU-Moderately unsatisfactory;
U-Unsatisfactory; HU-Highly unsatisfactory;NR = Not rated
*-Implementation progress:t -Developmentobjective




                                                           27

                                     Other DevelopmentAgencies

  Agency                           Project                                 Status              Duration

ADB       Second Road Improvement                                 Completed                   1997-2003

          Third Road Improvement                                  Ongoing                     1998-2005

          GMS: Ho Chi Minh City-Phnom Penh Highway                Ongoing                     1998-2005

          GMS: East-West Corridor                                 Ongoing                    2000-2005

          Provincial Roads Improvement                            Ongoing                    2001-2006

          Central RegionTransport Network                         Preparation                2005-201 0

          GMS: Kunming-HaiphongCorridor                           Preparation                2005-201 0

          GMS: Southern Coastal Corridor                          Conceptualization           2006-201 1

          Implementationof Sector Development Policy (Road
          Informationand ManagementSystem)                        Consultants being recruited 2004-2005

JBlC      National Highway No. 5 ImprovementProject               Ongoing                     1996-2004

          National Highway No. 1 Bridge RehabilitationProject     Ongoing                     1996-2005

          HaiVan Tunnel ConstructionProject                       Ongoing                     1997-2007

          National Highway No. 10 Improvement Project             Ongoing                     1998-2007

          National Highway No. 18 Improvement Project             Ongoing                     1998-2008

          Second National Highway No. 1 Bridge Rehabilitation
          Project                                                 Ongoing                     1999-2004

         Transport InfrastructureDevelopment Projectin Hanoi      Ongoing                     1999-2006

          Saigon East-West Highway ConstructionProject            Ongoing                     2000-2007

          Binh BridgeConstruction Project                         Ongoing                     2000-2007

          Red River (Thanh Tri) Bridge ConstructionProject        Ongoing                     2000-2008

          Bai Chay Bridge ConstructionProject                     Ongoing                     2001-2008

          National Highway No. 1 Bypass Road ConstructionProject Ongoing                      2001-2009

          Can Tho Bridge Construction Project                      Ongoing                    2001-2009

         Third National Highway No. 1 Bridge RehabilitationProject Ongoing                    2003-2009

          National Highway No.3 ImprovementProject                 Proposed                   2005-

JlCA     Traffic Safety Program                                    Ongoing                    2004-2005

WBlDFlD   Second RuralTransport Project                            Ongoing                    2000-2005

         Third Rural Transport Project                             Proposed                   2005-201 0

JBIC/DFID Transoortsector coordination                             Desian                     TBC

NZ/DFID   Transport Safety DesignWork                              Design                     TBC




                                                    28

                          Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring
                     VIETNAM: Road SafetyProject ResultsFramework



               PDO                           Outcome Indicators              Use of Outcome Information

Reducethe rates of accident, injury, Ratesof accident, injury, and         To gauge the effectivenessof the
and death associated with road       fatalities on project road corridors  jovernment's road safety programs
transport through physical           reduced                               and interventions
improvementand institutional
developmentto strengthenthe
managementof road transport
safety

      Intermediate Results                    Results Indicators              Use of Results Monitoring

ComponentA                           ComponentA                            Component A:
Establishmentof a framework for      Developmentand government             To gauge effectivenessof project
achieving long-term road safety      approval of a national road safety    activities and to strengthenthe
performancetargets                   strategyspecifyingachievable          government's commitmentand the
                                     performancetargets and a financing    capacityof NTSC to improve road
                                     plan                                  safety

Component B:                         ComponentB :                          ComponentB:
Increasedpublic and official         Driver behavior and compliance        To gauge effectivenessof project
knowledgeand awareness of road       with vehicle and licensingstandards   interventionson demonstration
safety and of short-termsolutionsto  on project corridors improved         corridors
improving road safety
ComponentC:                          ComponentC:                           ComponentC:
Enhancedofficial capacity and        Monitoringand evaluation              To guide implementationof the
accountabilityfor road safety        framework implementedin project       demonstrationcorridors.
outcomes                             corridorsand used to prioritize road
                                     safety interventions,and National
                                     RoadAccident Database System
                                     establishedand updated regularly




                                                                         .

                                                       29

                                      Arrangements for Results Monitoring

                                              TargetValues                       Data Collection and Reporting

                                                                                                        Responsi-
                                                                           Frequency          Data       bilityfor
                             Base   Year    Year  Year    Year     Year       and          Collection       Data
   Outcome Indicators        line    1       2      3       4        5      Reports       Instruments   Collection

Deaths andinjuries in demonstrationcorridorsreduced:
Accident rate per 100        39                                      29
millionvehicle km
Fatalityrate per 100 million 13                                       6
vehicle km
Injury rate per 100 million  130                                     62
vehicle km

                                              Target Values                      Data Collection and Reporting

                                                                                                         Responsi-
                                                                           Frequency          Data        bilityfor
  Results Indicatorsfor      Base   Year    Year   Year   Year      Year      and          Collection       Data
     Each Component          line    1        2     3       4        5      Reports       Instruments    Collection

ComponentA
Performance-basednationalroadsafety strategy (phase 2), including financingplan, developedand approved by
Government
Preliminarydraft                            1
developedand reviewed
by stakeholders
Finaldraft report                                  1
developed and available
for public review and
comment
Finaldraft approved by                                    1
aovernment

Component B:
Key roadsafety behaviorsandcompliancewith vehicleandlicensing standardsinproject demonstration corridors improved.
% of traffic exceeding       30
postedspeed limits
% of motorcycleriders        25
wearing helmets;
% of motorcycledrivers       95
licensed;
% of commercialvehicle       95
operators licensed;
% of vehicles in             90
demonstration corridors
passingfirst time
inwection




                                                         30

                                             TargetValues                    Data Collection and Reporting

                                                                                                       Responsi-
                                                                      Frequency           Data          bilityfor
  Results Indicators for    Base   Year    Year  Year  Year    Year       and          Collection         Data
    Each Component           line    I 2          3      4      5       Reports       Instruments      Collection

Component C:
Monitoringand evaluationframeworkimplementedinproject demonstrationcorridors and usedto prioritize roadsafety
interventions, andNational RoadAccident DatabaseSystemestablishedand updated regularly
Numberof biannual road                        2     4      6      7
safety reports prepared in
accordancewith project
monitoringand evaluation
guidelines;
Numberof annual reports                       1     2      3      4
on effectiveness of
treatments and
interventionsprepared in
accordancewith project
monitoringand evaluation
guidelines;
Percentageof NRADS                           10     20    60    100
completed




                                                      31


                         Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
                            VIETNAM: RoadSafety Project



The project has three components: Institutional andCapacity BuildingProgram; Road
Safety DemonstrationandAwareness Program; andRoad Safety Monitoring and
EvaluationProgram.

ComponentA. InstitutionalandCapacityBuildingProgram(US$7.84 million).
This component will provide technical assistance andproject implementation support to
strengthen the management and technical capacity o fthe NTSC Executive Office, the
newly created project management unit (TS PMU), the sub-PMUs, and corridor
supervision teams. This component will also support the preparation o f a performance
based national road safety strategy, including a financing plan.The following
subcomponents will be supported under this component:

A.1 Capacity Building and Implementation Support (USS5.04 million). This
subcomponent will finance an integratedpackage o f technical assistance to support
capacity buildingandimplementation across all project components and implementing
agencies. The following areas will be supported: (i) management and strategy support to
the NTSC and its Executive Office; (ii)  implementation support to the TS PMU; (iii)
technical and specialized studies to support sub-PMU teams; (iv) training; and (v)
development o f a targeted and fully budgetednational road safety plan.

A.2 Safeguards Implementation Support and Independent Monitoring (USSO.10million),
This subcomponent will provide consulting services and equipment as needed to support
the TS PMUwith the implementation o f the project Environmental Management Plan
(EMP) andResettlement PolicyFramework (RPF), and employ anindependent agency to
undertake monitoring o f compliance with project resettlement safeguards and the RPF.

A.3 NTSC equipment to support implementation (USSO.65 million). This subcomponent
will provide funds to purchase office equipment, vehicles, andother goods to ensure that
theNTSC Executive Office, TS PMU, and the sub-PMUs have adequate facilities to
carry out the project.

A.4 Operating Costs and Training (USS2.05 million). Fundswill be usedto cover
NTSC's operating costs during implementation (US$1.5 million) andprovide training
relatedto project implementation (US0.55 million). These costs will be fully financed
bythe Government o f Vietnam.

ComponentB. RoadSafety Demonstrationand Awareness Program
(US%20.89million)
This component will develop and implement comprehensive, integrated safety programs
along three high-risk national road corridors. The three Demonstration Corridors that
have been identified for inclusion under the project are: (i)
                                                            National Highway 1between


                                             33

Hanoi and Vinh (28 1km); (ii)    National Highway 1between H o Chi MinhCity and Can
Tho City (151km); and (3) Highway 51from DongNai province to Vung Tau (80 km).
Ifproject funds allow, successful elements ofthethree DemonstrationCorridorswillbe
implemented on other highway corridors. The following subcomponents will be
supported under this component:

B.1Blackspot treatment program (US$3.75 million). This subcomponent will support
treatment o f nominatedblackspots within the three Demonstration corridors. Sites to be
treated inyears 2 to 4 o f the blackspots program will be selected by the VRA, supported
bytechnical assistance providedunder subcomponent A1.

B.2 Resettlement (US$O.81 million). This subcomponent will fund resettlement andland
acquisition costs associated with the implementationo f the blackspot program within the
three Demonstration Corridors.

B.3 Design and construction supervision (US$O.14million). This subcomponent will
provide technical assistance to VRA to support design and supervision services provided
by subcomponent B1,above. These services will include engineering surveys,
construction drawings andpreliminary designs, specifications, cost estimates, and
biddingdocuments for blackspot treatments. They will also include construction
supervision services, to ensure efficient andhighquality execution o f the works.

B.4 Vehicle inspection computer system upgrade (US$l.55 million). This subcomponent
will support the Vietnam Register to upgrade its national vehicle inspection IT system
andprovide specializedvehicle inspectionequipment at three primarynational vehicle
inspection stations (Hanoi, H o Chi MinhCity andVinh Long). Itwill also support the
provision o f equipment invehicle testing stations and equipment to conduct mobile
vehicle inspectionsinthe three DemonstrationCorridors. This subcomponent will be
supported by technical assistance provided under subcomponent A1.

B.5 Driver training and testing (US$1.25 million). This subcomponent will support the
VRA through the provisiono f equipment to improve the driver training centers at Chi
LinhandDongNaiprovinces andrelatedfacilities, inaccordance withthe
recommendations o f the national review o f driver training, testing and licensing systems
that will be carried out under subcomponent A1,

B.6Road safety audits and safety inspection (US$O.29 million). Provides consulting
services for VRA inroad safety audit and blackspot or black route identification and
treatment: (i)developing, formalizing, and applying procedures; (ii)   working with the
Traffic Police to specify data and evaluation andmonitoring requirements; and (iii)
identifying and investigating blackspots andblack routes, designing treatments, and
monitoring and evaluationo f treatment effectiveness.

B.7Demonstration corridor safety enforcement (US$3.85 million). This subcomponent
will support the Traffic Police through the provision o fvehicles and equipment to
implement a "general deterrence" road safety enforcement program inthe three




                                             34

DemonstrationCorridors. The design, implementation and evaluation o f the program will
be supported through technical assistance andtrainingprovided under subcomponent A1.

B.8 Road user education and awareness (US$3.17million). This subcomponent will
support aprogram o froaduser education andpublic awareness inthe three
Demonstration Corridors, usingtargeted social marketingtechniques. The programwill
be coordinated with police enforcement activities under subcomponent B6, to maximize
impact on key roaduser behaviors. The design, implementation and evaluation of the
program will be supported bytechnical assistance provided under subcomponent A1.

B.9Road safety educationprogram (US$1.45million). This subcomponent will support
the provision of school road safety education materials, equipment and associated
training for a program ofpre-school and school-based road safety education inthe three
Demonstration Corridors. The design, implementation and evaluation o f the program will
be supported by technical assistanceprovided under subcomponent A1.

B.10Road accident emergency treatment (US$l.61million). This subcomponent will
support the provisionof materials, equipment and training for an emergency medical
services program inthe three DemonstrationCorridors. The design, implementation and
evaluation o fthe program will be supported with technical assistance providedunder
subcomponent A1.

B.11Operating costs (US$2.07million). These funds will cover operations during
implementation of the Road Safety Demonstrationand Awareness Program, including for
NTSC, VR, VRA and the ministries ofPublic Security, Education andTraining, and
Health.

B.12 Consulting services (US$0.96million). This subcomponent will fund local
consulting services and other costs associated with the operation o fproject sub-PMUs in
the various project line ministries, and eligible expenses related to field supervision ofthe
three DemonstrationCorridors.

Component C. Road Safety Monitoring and Evaluation Program (US$6.20 million)
This component will support developmentofthe NationalRoadAccident Database
System (NRADS) and a comprehensive program o fproject corridor monitoring and
evaluation. The following subcomponents will be supported under this component:

C.1National Road Accident Database System (US$4.42million). This subcomponent
will support the buildingo fthe NRADS, including the purchase o fequipment, software,
andassociated systems, andtraining. Development o fthe functional requirements for the
system, preparation o fbiddingdocuments, evaluation o fbids andproject implementation
will be supported with technical assistance provided under subcomponent A1.

C.2Demonstration corridor monitoring and evaluation (US$l.77 million). This
subcomponent will support consulting services to carry out the necessary data collection
andsurveys inthe three DemonstrationCorridors, according the agreed monitoring and
evaluation fkamework. The detailed survey design andtrainingrequired for effective


                                              35

implementation o fthe monitoring and evaluationprogram will be supported with
technical assistance provided under subcomponent A1.




                                          36

                                         Annex 5: Project Costs
                                   VIETNAM: RoadSafety Project




      Project Cost By Component andlor Activity                    Local              Foreign           Total
                                                               (US$ million)      (US$ million)    (US$ million)

  A. Institutionaland CapacityBuilding                                 2.74                4.44              7.18

  A.l NTSC advisory services                                           0.88                3.5               4.38

  A.2 EnvironmentalImplementationSupport                               0.09                0.01              0.10

  A.3 Support to TS PMU                                                0.13                0.52              0.65

  A.4 Operating Costs and Training                                     1.64                0.41              2.05
  9.RoadSafety Demonstrationand Awareness                              8.99                9.66            18.65
  6.1 Blackspottreatment program                                       1.65                 1.65             3.30

  6.2 Resettlement                                                     0.59                 0.07             0.66
  6.3 Designand constructionsupervision                                0.09                 0.03             0.12

  8.4 Vehicle inspectioncomputersystem upgrade                         0.27                 1.10             1.37

  B.5 Driver training and testing                                      0.32                 0.75             1.07

  6.6 Road safety audits and safety inspection                         0.13                 0.13             0.26

  B.7 Demonstrationcorridor.safetyenforcement                          0.33                 3.00             3.33

  8.8 Road user education and awareness                                 1.71                1.14             2.84

  B.9 Road safety education program                                    0.83                 0.45             1.28

  B.10 Road accident emergencytreatment                                0.43                 1.01             1.44
  6.11 Operating costs (relatedMinistries)                              1.86                0.21             2.07

  8.12 Consultingservices (related Ministries)                         0.78                 0.14             0.92
  C. RoadSafety Monitoringand Evaluation                                0.54                4.87             5.42

  C.l National RoadAccident DatabaseSystem                              0.38                3.45             3.84
  C.2 Demonstrationcorridor monitoringand evaluation                    0.16                 1.42            1.58

  Total Baseline Cost                                                 12.27                18.97            31.24

  PhysicalContingencies                                                 0.19                0.19             0.38

  Price Contingencies                                                   0.95                2.35             3.30

  Total Project Costs'                                                13.41               21.51             34.92

  Interestduring construction                                            nla                 nla              nla

  Front-endfee                                                           nla                 nla              nla
  Total FinancingRequired                                             10.20                21.53             31.73


'Identifiabletaxes and duties are US$0.89 million,and the total project cost, net of taxes, is US$34.03 million.
Therefore, the Bank's share of the projectcost net of taxes is 93.2%.




                                                        37


                         Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                             VIETNAM: RoadSafetyProject



NationalTraffic SafetyCommittee
The National Traffic Safety Committee (NTSC) will act as executing agency for the
project andwill be responsible for overall project management and oversight. The NTSC
was established in 1997 at the request o f the Ministryo f Transport and the Ministryo f
Public Security. Its responsibilities are to coordinate the activities o f central government
agencies, People's Committees, and other relevant organizations on matters o f traffic
safety andreport to and advise the prime minister about traffic safety issues.

The NTSC has 11members: the vice or deputy ministers o fDefense, Finance, Justice,
Education and Training, Health, and Transport, the deputy general director o f the
Department o f Public Safety, the director o fthe Road and Rail Traffic Police, the director
o f the Civil Aviation Authority, the chief o f the Central Committee o f the Fatherland
Front, and the chief o fthe NTSC Executive Office. The chairman o f the NTSC is the
minister (or vice minister, on the minister's behalf) o f Transport. The vice chairman i s the
vice minister o f Public Security. A standing committee o f leaders o f central government
agencies assists the NTSC inmanaging specific issues.

The Executive Office o fthe NTSC will support the NTSC incarrying out its management
and oversight responsibilities. The Executive Office consists o f the chief o f the office, the
vice chief, chief accountant, and three other staffmembers.
ProjectManagementUnits
The NTSC has established the Transport Safety Project Management Unit (TS PMU) to
implement the project. The TS P M Uwill be responsible for procurement, financial
management, monitoring and reporting, and day-to-day supervision of project activities.
The TS PMUis headedby a general director who reports to the chairman o fthe NTSC.
The general director is supported by deputies inareas o f functional responsibility.

Each o f the project participating agencies will establish and staff a sub-PMU to
implement its part o f the project. Each sub-PMU will be responsible for technical
decisions andmanagement o fproject components inits sector, with support from local
andinternational experts.

ProjectSteeringCommittee
NTSC has established a project steering committee to ensure coordination and
accountability duringproject implementation (as a condition o fproject effectiveness).
Representatives come from the project participating agencies (Ministries o fPublic
Security, Education and Training, and Health, andthe VRA and the Vietnam Register
underthe Ministryo f Transport) as well as from the State Bank o f Vietnam, the Ministry
o fFinance, the Ministry o f Planningand Investment, and the Ministryo f Transport's
Planningand Investment Department. The vice minister o fTransport will serve as chair


                                              39

o f the steering committee. The project steering committee will consider and decide on
issues related to the guidelines, policies andimplementationo fthe project's detailed
tasks. Its main function will be project monitoring and reviewing, anddeciding and
commenting on objectives, problems, resources, andproject planning.

Traffic Safety Departmentsand Committees
Eachprovince has a traffic safety department and each city and district has a traffic safety
committee. Traffic safety committees have also been established at the village or
community level insome areas. The members o f local traffic safety committees represent
the same 11agencies and departments as members ofthe national committee. Also like
the national committee, traffic safety committees at the provincial and city levels have
executive offices.

Traffic safety committees and departments use some or all o f the following groups for
assistance indelivering traffic safety information and education to communities: People's
Committees, the Vietnam FatherlandFront, women's associations, farmers' unions,
youth groups, and the Red Cross.

DemonstrationCorridor SupervisionTeams
TS PMUwill establish two supervision teams to design, implement, and monitor
interventions andday-to-day activities on the demonstrationcorridors. One team will be
responsible for the northern corridor and the other for the two southern corridors. These
teams will be expected to work with local governments, road users, and local agencies in
the corridor. The overall objective o f the supervision teams will be to design and
implement a rapid-result planfor reducing accidents, injuries, and fatalities intheir
respective corridors o fresponsibility.

ConsultativeCouncil
The Consultative Council will be established byNTSC to advise NTSC and share
information about council members' activities with an eye to ensuringcoordination and
synergybetweennongovernmental organizations (NGOs) andproject activities (as a
condition o fproject effectiveness). The NTSC Executive Office will serve as chair o f the
Consultative Council. Members o f the Consultative Council are representatives o fNGOs,
international organizations, and enterprises. Members participate inthe Consultative
Council on a voluntary basis andinclude the NTSC representative, the Vietnam Red
Cross, SIDA, AIPF, GRSP, VCCI, Shell Vietnam, BP, Petco, 3 M Vietnam, Mercedes
Vietnam, HondaVietnam, andSuzuki Vietnam.

The project structure i s pictured inthe following organization chart.




                                              40

                               NationalTraffic
       Project                     Safety                   NTSC Executive
      Steering                  Committee
     Committee                                                   Office




                                     + . c               -
                               Traffic Safety
                                  Project                  ProvincialTraffic             Consultative
                               Management                 Safety Departments               Council
                                    Unit
                                                                                     I


         I                           I                              I




1                                                                   I
                              Demonstration                         4




I                    I
I                    I      I                  I

                        Reportingrelationship
 ....................   Liaison,advisory,or coordinationrelationship

                                 Project Organizational Structure

Other GovernmentAgencies
The following additional government agencies will have supporting roles:

    a    The Ministry o fNatural Resources andEnvironment, with support from local
         authorities, will ensure compliance with all government instructions relating to
         environmental protection and will monitor implementation o f the EMP.

    a    The Ministryof Finance will allocate adequate funds to the project on a timely
         basis and will deposit government counterpart funds into the executing agency
         trust account for the project.

    a    The local provincial People's Committees, through their local resettlement
         committees, will assist the TS PMUinland acquisition andresettlement.

Summary
The following table summarizes participating agencies' project responsibilities.

                  Agency                                      ResponsibilitylRole

 NTSC                                   Overall project managementand oversight

 NTSC ExecutiveOffice                   NTSCmanagementfunctions,as requested, to support project
                                        managementand oversight role

 TS PMU                                 Project implementation, coordination, monitoring,and supervision



                                                 41

I              Agency                                         ResponsibilitylRole                       I
 Sub-PMUS                              Managementand design of subcomponents, corridor supervision
                                       and monitoringwith TS PMU, and coordinationwith subnational
                                       traffic safety committees

                                       Strategic projectcoordination,monitoringand direction of project
                                       delivery
1SubnationalTraffic Safety Committees  Supportto and participationin projectactivities as needed         I
                                       Day-to-day supervisionof project implementationon demonstration


                                       Coordinationof NGO and privatesector activities.Advise NTSC
                                       ExecutiveOffice as requested.




                                                  42

          Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
                             VIETNAM: RoadSafetyProject



Countryissues
The findings of the 2001Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) relevant
to the financial management aspects o fthe VRSP are as follows: (i)     reports from the
public expenditure accounting system attempt to capture too much detailed data, and
management reports for effective decision-making are not widely used; (ii)     requirements
o fpublic expenditure accounting are comprehensive and detailed; therefore compliance
with the requirements is challenging for all units, particularly at lower levels; and (c) as
accounting staff focus on more easily accomplished requirements such as mechanical
verification o fpayments andreceipts, the regular and efficient monitoring o f State budget
information for effective use of public funds at times i s not carried out ina timely
manner. The CFAA also found that "the current budget arrangement inVietnam suffers
from a lack o f transparency for achievement o f objectives.'' The conclusion o f the CFAA
was that a certain degree o f fiduciary risk exists inthe use o fpublic resources. For this
project, however, the fiduciary risk is assessedas manageable for on-budget items ifthe
financial management plani s carried out.

ProjectImplementationArrangements
The National Traffic Safety Committee (NTSC) was established in 1997 at the request o f
the Ministry of Transport andMinistryo fPublic Security to coordinate the activities o f
central government agencies, People's Committees, and other relevant organizations in
traffic safety andreport to and advise the prime minister about traffic safety issues. The
NTSC established the Traffic Safety Project Management Unit (TS PMU) to implement
this project. The TS PMUwill be responsible for procurement, financial management,
project monitoring and reporting, and day-to-day supervision o f project activities.

Strengthsandweaknesses and risk analysis
The TS PMUdoes not have experience inIDA-fundedprojects, which creates a financial
management risk for project implementation. Nor does it have a capable financial system,
which creates the risk o f overspending. The financial management assessment o f the
TS PMUidentified certain weaknesses inthe unit. (i)      lack o f capable financial staff; (ii)
lack o f suitable accounting software; and (iii) o f a detailed financial management
                                                 lack
manual. Ifthe financial management action plan (see further inthis annex) i s
implemented, these risks and weaknesses will be significantly mitigated.

Accountingpoliciesandprocedures
The TS PMUwill develop a financial management system that has the flexibility to
recordproject expenditures by expenditure category or project component. The chart o f
accounts has been developed to accommodate the functions o f the accounting software to
capture the expenditure data classifiedbyproject component and expenditure category.



                                              43

Reportingand monitoring
TS PMUwill be responsible for preparingfinancial reports for the special account. The
project will use financial monitoring reports (FMRs) to meet practical monitoring
requirements. FMRswill bepart o f the progress reports submitted bythe TS PMU. FMRs
include:

    0   Sources andUses o fFunds by expenditure category

    0   Uses o f FundsbyProject by project activity and component

    0   Special Account statement

        ImplementationProgress by contract (combined for Implementation Progress and
        Contract Monitoring);

    0   Procurement Process Monitoring.

Disbursementarrangements
Project funds will be disbursed as specified inthe following table.

   ExpenditureCategory      US$ million                   Financing Percentage

 CivilWorks                   3.163     100%through December31,2007, and 92% thereafter
 Goods                       11.775     100%of foreign expenditures, 100%of local expenditures (ex-
                                       factory cost) and 85% of local expendituresfor other items
                                        procuredlocally
 Consulting Services         10.289     100%
 Training and workshops       1.013     100%
 Incrementaloperating costs   2.070     100%
 Unallocated                  3.420
 Total                       31.730


Use of statementsof expenditures
Withdrawals from the special account will be made on the basis o f statements o f
expenditures for works costing less than US$lOOyOOOequivalent per contract; goods
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract; services providedby consulting
firms costing less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract; and services provided by
individual consultants costing less thanUS$5Oy0O0equivalent per contract. These
documents will be made available for the required audits as well as to the Bank
supervisionmissions on request. Expenditures above these thresholds will be submitted
on the basis o f full documentation.

SpecialAccount
A special account will be opened ina commercial bankwith terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDAwith an authorized allocation o f $3.0 million. The authorized


                                              44

allocation will be limitedto an amount equivalent to US$1.5 million untilthe total
amount o f all outstanding commitments i s equal to or exceeds the equivalent o f
SDR 5.0 million. Replenishment applications will be submitted monthly or when the
account is drawn by 50 percent o f the authorized allocation, whichever occurs first. For
withdrawal outside the special account (applications for direct payment or for issuance o f
special commitments), a minimumapplication value o f 20 percent o f the authorized
allocation o f the special account will be observed.


                                                          NTSC Executive



                                                                  (SI

                                                             Finance
                         SpecialAccount.>                  Departmentof
                                                            TS PMU

                                                                 (2)

                                 m        (8)
                                                            TS PMU




                                Contractoror
                                 Consultant
                                             I           I             I


                                         Flow of Funds
Flow o f Funds Sequence:
   lb. Consultant submits invoices to TS PMUfor consulting services
   IC-1.Contractor submits invoices to VRA for civil works
   lc-2. VRA reviews and forwards to TS PMU
   2. TS PMUreviews and forwards to TS PMUFinance Department.
   3. Finance Department reviews, certifies, and sends to NTSC for signature; andNTSC
      returns signed invoice to Finance Department
   4. Finance Department sends to Treasury.
   5. Treasury reviews, approves, and sends back to TS PMU
   6. TS PMUrequests holding bank to make payment from special account for IDA'S
      share o fpayment
   7.Treasury pays the contractor counterpart share.
   8. Bank pays the contractor or consultant IDA'Sshare.
Audit Arrangement
The project accounts will be audited on an annual basis inaccordance with international
auditing standards and incompliance with the independent auditing regulations o f
Vietnam. The audit will be prepared on the basis o f international financial reporting
standards. The auditor's reports will be made available to IDA withinsix months o f the
close o f the fiscal year. Each audit will create a single audit opinion covering project



                                               45

accounts and use o f SOEs and the special account. The auditor will also provide with the
audit report a management letter addressing the internal control weaknesses o f
implementing agencies. The TS PMUwill select an auditor following IDA procurement
procedures from the list o f eligible auditors provided by IDA and usingthe terms o f
reference for the auditor approved by IDA.

            FinancialManagementAction Plan to Be Completed Before Credit effectiveness

      Weakness                                     Action                                Responsible
                                                                                            Agency
~                                                         ~~         ~       ~~       ~~     ~


 Lack of capable       Appoint a financial managementofficer and a full-time            TS PMU
 financial staff       accountant with qualificationsand experienceacceptableto
                       IDA

                       Train the staff of the TSPMU in the financial management         TS PMU
                       system and the Bank's financial management,disbursement,
                       and procurementprocedures

 Lack of suitable      Establishcomputerizedfinancial managementsystem,                 TS PMU
 accountingsoftware    includingdesign of the chart of accounts and installationof
 and financial         specializedsoftware to producefinancial monitoringreports
 management manual     Projectimplementationplanto be prepared, includinga              TS PMU
                       financial management manual




                                                    46

                           Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
                               VIETNAM: RoadSafetyProject



A. GENERAL
Procurement for the proposedproject will be carried out inaccordance with the World
Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated May 2004,
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by WorldBank Borrowers dated
May 2004, andthe provisions stipulated inthe development credit agreement. The
various items under different expenditure categories are described below. For each
contract to be financed by the credit, the different procurement methods and consultant
selection methods, estimated costs, prior review requirements, andtime frame are agreed
betweenthe borrower andthe Bank inthe procurement plan. The procurement plan will
be updated at least annually, or as requiredto reflect actual project implementation needs
andimprovements ininstitutional capacity.

Works
Works estimated at about US$3.75 million equivalent to be procured under this project
include treatment o f blackspots along three high-risk national road corridors: National
Highway 1betweenHanoi and Vinh (281 km); National Highway 1betweenHo Chi
MinhCity andCanTho City (151km); andHighway51, DongNaiprovinceto Vung
Tau (75 km).Blackspot sites for treatment (subprojects) inyears 2 to 4 o f the project will
be selected by the VRA, with technical assistance provided under the project. The works
are small and scattered. Therefore, national competitive bidding(NCB) is most suitable
and will be the method used for contracts below the international competitive bidding
(ICB) threshold o f US$2.0 million but exceeding US$50,000 per contract. The
procurement will follow N C B procedures with modifications using sample bidding
documents for N C B for works agreed with the Bank.

Shopping or force account will be used for contracts meeting the criteria defined in
paragraph 3.5 or 3.8 o fthe procurement guidelines andwith an estimated value below
US$50,000 per contract. These include contracts for small engineering works such as
installation o f guard rails, signage, andrumble strips; construction o f traffic islands and
segregated traffic lanes; and minor roadwidening and improvements to accommodate
pedestrian paths and improve driver site distances androad curvature.

Goods
Goods estimated at US$l1.8 million to be procured under this project include equipment
for the National Road Accident Database System, road user education and public
awareness materials for Traffic Police enforcement, software and vehicle inspection
equipment, equipment for the Ministry o f Transport driver training centers, vehicles and
equipment for the Road and Railway Traffic Police Administration, school road safety
education materials, training materials and equipment for emergency medical treatment




                                              47

and environmental monitoring includingair andwater quality monitoringequipment and
noise measuring equipment. The following procurement procedures will be used:

   0   ICB proceduresand standarddocumentsto procure goods estimated to cost more
       thanUS$150,000 equivalent per contract

   0   NCB procedures and sample documents agreed with the Bank to procure goods
       estimated to cost less thanUS$150,000 but more thanUS$30,000 per contract

   0   Shopping procedures inaccordancewith Articles 3.5 of the Guidelinesto procure
       goods estimatedto cost less thanUS$30,000 per contract

   0   Through the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the UnitedNations
       (IAPSO), inaccordance with the provisions of paragraph3.9 of the Guidelines, to
       procure vehicles andoffice equipment.

Consultants
Consulting services estimatedat US$10.3 million (net of contingencies) to be procured
under the project include technical assistance aimedat strengtheningthe capacity and
performance o fNTSC and TS PMU, monitoring of project safeguards compliance, road
safety audits andsafety inspection, supportto sub-PMUs, independentmonitoring and
evaluation o fthe implementation of the road safety corridor demonstration program, and
implementation ofroad safety education and awarenesscampaigns.

       Quality- and cost-based selection (QCBS). Consulting services estimatedto cost
       more than US$100,000 per contract will be procured using the QCBS method.
       These assignments include institutionalcapacity building for NTSC; road safety
       audits and safety inspection; monitoring and evaluation of the demonstration
       corridors; androad user education and awareness campaigns. QCBS will apply to
       an aggregate amount of about US$12.0 million.

       Selection under aJixed budget (FB). Services for assignmentsthat meet the
       requirements of Paragraph3.5 of the Consultant Guidelinesmay beprocured
       under contractsawardedonthe basis of afixed budget inaccordancewith
       provisions of Paragraphs3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. These
       assignments may include road safety audits and safety inspection.

    0  Consultant qualzjication. Consulting services estimatedto cost less than
       US$100,000 per contract will be procured through the consultant qualification
       procedure.

    0  Individual consultants meeting the conditions specified in Section V of the
       Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 5.1,will be procuredinaccordance with
       procedures specified inparagraphs 5.2 through 5.4 of the same section.




                                            48

OperatingCosts
Operating costs estimated at about US$3.35 million intotal include incremental costs
relatedto project implementationactivities, including supervision field visits, vehicle
rental, fuel and maintenance, office supplies, and project-relatedmeeting travel expenses,
butexcluding government officials' salaries

B.ASSESSMENTTHEAGENCY'SCAPACITYTO IMPLEMENTPROCUREMENT
                  OF

NTSC i s the executing agency for the project, andthe Traffic Safety Project Management
Unit(TS PMU) isthe implementing agency. The TS PMUis responsiblefor overseeing
all procurement processes. Procurement and other key staff o fthe TS PMUwere
appointed on February 28, 2005.

Six sub-PMUs will be established for eachproject participating agency-Vietnam         Road
Administration, Ministry o f Public Security, Ministryo f Education andTraining,
MinistryofHealth, Vietnam Register, andNTSC ExecutiveOffice-and              will be
responsible for the substance o f their respective components, including specification o f
biddingdocuments, evaluation o ftechnical responsiveness o fbids, obtaining approval for
contract awards from their respective ministries, and supervision and quality control o f
contract implementation. Establishment and staffing o fthe sub-PMUs is a condition for
project effectiveness.

Summary of MainFindingsandRecommendations
The participating agencies are generally staffed with technical personnel with adequate
knowledge and experience intheir respective professional areas and inprocurement using
the government's procedures.

The key issues and risks concerning procurement for the project include the absence o f
formally established and fully functional subproject implementing agencies, potential
inadequate procurement capacity o fthe project implementing agencies and inadequate
familiarity o fthe participating agencies with Bank procurement rules, and a high-risk
procurement environment. The corrective measures that have been agreed to include
actions related to organizational setup, staffing, procurement procedures and documents,
training, andtechnical assistance, as detailed inthe action planprovided below.

The overall project risk for procurement is rated as high.

ActionPlanto Buildthe Agency's Capacity
The actions agreed with the project authorities to buildprocurement capacity are:

Organizationalsetup
1.      NTSC will issue prior to project effectiveness an official decision stipulating the
        role o f each participating agency, allocating responsibility for reporting systems,
        and spelling out the administrative relationship with each participating agency in
        terms o fproject implementation ingeneral and procurement processing in
        particular.


                                              49

2.       The participating agencies will establish their respective sub-PMUs before project
         effectiveness.

Staffing
3.       Each o fthe sub-PMUs will be staffed with at least one technical expert with
         satisfactory procurement skills.

Training
4.       Project launchworkshop, including procurementtraining, will be conducted.

5.       TS-PMU procurement officers incharge o f I C B procurement will attend a course
         organized by an international agency such as Asian Institute o f Management
         (Philippines) or Administrative Staff College o f India (ASCI), preferably, if
         possible, before project effectiveness, or soon thereafter;

6.       In-country specialized training onNCB, shopping, and small works procurement
         will take place before, or soon after effectiveness.
Technicalassistance
7.       An intemationally qualifiedprocurement consultant will be recruitedto support
         TS-PMU's procurement, including training for local staff on ICB before or soon
         after effectiveness.
8.       A localprocurementconsultant will berecruitedto support TS-PMU's
         procurement, including training onN C B before credit effectiveness, or soon after.
Eligibility of Dependent State-OwnedEnterprisesto Bidfor Bank-financed
Contracts
The Bank and the Government o f Vietnam agreed on a state-owned enterprise eligibility
policy inNovember 2000 and the policy became fully effective inJanuary 2003. The
Bank has made significant, although slow, progress inthe transport sector. The Bank will
continue to monitor compliance with the state-owned enterprise policy.

Underthe Bankpolicy, commercially oriented state-owned enterprises are allowed to bid
for Bank contracts provided they are not dependent on the purchasing or employer
agency. Dependency i s the key issue indetermining eligibility. With respect to the
project, the following guidance shall be followed:

Works and Goods Contracts. There are many private and non-Ministry of Transport-
dependent state-owned enterprises capable o f undertaking the civil works under the
project, including provincial construction companies. Thus, inprinciple, no Ministry o f
Transport-dependent contractors, including those under VRA, are eligible for biddingon
Bank-financed contracts. For work contracts meeting the conditions specified insection
3.8 o f the Procurement Guidelines, force account may be used.




                                               50

Consulting Service Contracts. No Ministry o f Transport-dependent consulting firms or
firms dependent on other participating agencies will be allowed to submit proposals for
consultancy services funded by the project.

N o military or security units or enterprises under the control o f military and security
forces shall be eligible to bid.

C.PROCUREMENTPLAN
The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a procurementplan for project implementation
that provides the basis for procurement methods. This planwas finalized and agreed
between the borrower andthe project team at negotiations and is available at the NTSC
Executive Office at the Ministry o f Transport, Hanoi, Vietnam. It will also be made
available inthe project files andthe Bank's external website. The procurement planwill
be updated inagreement with the project team annually, or as required to reflect actual
project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

D.FREQUENCYPROCUREMENT
                    OF                  SUPERVISION
Inadditionto the prior-review supervisionto be carriedout from Bank offices, the
capacity assessment o fthe implementing agency has recommended semiannual
supervision missions to the field to carry out post review o fprocurement actions. The
estimated percentage o f contracts subject to prior review is 80 percent. Contracts not
coveredby prior review shall be subject to post review at a ratio o f one infive contracts.

E.DETAILSOF PROCUREMENTARRANGEMENTS                  INVOLVING    INTERNATIONAL
COMPETITION
1.Goods,Works, andNon-ConsultingServices
Contract packages to be procured following I C B and direct contracting are specified in
the following table.


  Ref.   Contract Description   Estimated   Procurement  P-Q    Domestic     Review     Bid
   No.                            cost        Method           Preference   by Bank   Opening
                                 (US$ m)                      (Yes or No)   (Prior or   Date
                                                                             Post)

  A3    Vehicles for TS PMU,        0.32   ICB, NCB,    No    N/A             Post    TBD
        corridor supervision               IAPSO
        teams, and sub-PMUs

  B4    Computer and                0.51   ICB          No    Yes             Prior   TBD
        communications
        equipment

  64    Vehicle inspection          0.33   ICB          No    Yes             Prior   TBD
        equipment

  84    Mobiletesting equipment     0.60   ICB          No    Yes             Prior     TBD
        and vehicles (2)

  85    Equipmentfor upgrading      0.25   ICB          No    Yes             Prior     TBD
        vehicle licensingsystem




                                                51

  Ref.   Contract Description       Estimated    Procurement    P-Q  Domestic   Review      Bid
  No.                                  cost         Method          Preference  by Bank   Opening
                                     (US$ m)                        (Yes or No) (Prior or   Date
                                                                                 Post)

  B5    Equipmentfor upgrading           1.00   ICB            No   Yes           Prior     TBD
        driver training and testing
        facilities

  B7    Patrol Cars and Light            1.80   ICB            No   Yes           Prior     TBD
        Trucks

  87    Motorcycles                     0.18    ICB            No   Yes           Prior     TBD

  87    Vehicle livery, police          0.65    IC6            No   Yes           Prior     TBD
        equipment, and safety
        packages

  B7    Speed and alcohol               0.51    ICB            No   Yes           Prior     TBD
        detection and misc.
        safety equipment

  B10   Road accident                   0.36    ICB            No   Yes           Prior     TBD
        emergencytreatment
        supplies for corridor
        hospitals

  C1    National RoadAccident           4.13    ICB            No   N/A           Prior     TBD
        Database



2. Consulting Services
The consulting assignments with a short list o f international firms are specified inthe
following table.

 Ref.               Descriptionof Assignment             Estimated  Selection   Review     Expected
 No.                                                       cost      Method     by Bank   .Proposal
                                                          (US$ m)                (Prior   Submission
                                                                                or Post)     Date


 A1.    Capacity buildingand implementationsupport         4.91    QCBS         Prior    TBD


 B6.    Roadsafety audits and safety inspection            0.29    QCBS, FB     Prior     TBD


 88.    Road user education and awareness campaigns        3.17    QCBS         Prior     TBD

 C2.    Demonstrationcorridor monitoringand evaluation      1.77   QCBS         Prior     TBD


Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent
per contract may be composed entirely ofnational consultants inaccordance with the
provisions o fparagraph 2.7 o fthe Consultant Guidelines.




                                                     52

Review by the Association
The following contracts are subject to prior review by the Association:

   i. ThefirstcontractprocuredusingNCBandthefirstcontractprocuredusing
       Shopping procedures

   ii.Foreachoftheprojectcorridors,thefirstcontractforworksineachwork
       program regardless o f cost

   iii.Eachcontractforworksestimatedtocost$100,000equivalentormore

   iv. Each contract for goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more

   v. All contracts with consulting firms, irrespectiveof cost, procuredthrough single-
       source selection, and all contracts with consulting firms estimated to cost
       $100,000 equivalent or more

   vi. All contracts with individual consultants estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or
       more.

All other contracts will be subject to post review by the Association.




                                              53


                        Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis
                              VIETNAM:RoadSafety Project



Evaluation Criteria
The project aims to improve road safety inVietnam by applying an integrated set o f
interventions to three high-risk corridors as a demonstration project. The proposed
investments will reduce roaduser costs and costs to society by reducing the number and
severity o f accidents, injuries, and fatalities that result from road crashes.

The cost-benefit method o f analysis was used. Because o f the integratednature o f the
project andthe covariance effects between project components, the project has been
evaluated as a whole rather than as individual components.

A model has beendevelopedfor road safety onthe three demonstration corridors that
takes into account the current and predictedvehicle distance traveled, current and
predicted accident rates, and estimates o f the effect o f project interventions. Road
accidents, fatalities, and injuries are modeled for the demonstration corridors with and
without the project. The economic evaluation compares the incremental costs and
benefits o f these two alternatives.

The economic evaluation uses a 12percent discount rate and a 20-year analysis period.
Costs andbenefits are discountedto March2004 values. The exchange rate usedi s
VND 15,500 to US$l.OO.

Investment costs include physical contingencies but are net oftaxes, duties, andother
transfer payments and exclude price contingencies.

Summary of Benefits and Costs
The main economic benefits o f the project are reductions insocial costs resulting from
reduced numbers and severity o f fatalities and injuries that result from road accidents.
There will be some time savings to road users from better availability o f medical services
butthesehave not been included inthe analysis. Environmental effects o fthe project are
small, and mitigation measures are included as part o f construction; therefore,
environmental aspects have been excluded from the analysis.

The main costs of the project are for civil works (blackspot treatments) and purchase o f
vehicles, equipment, and materials. These have beenestimated on the basis o f historical
cost data for similar works andpurchases inVietnam. Other costs include consulting
services and administrative costs. Compensation costs are not included inthe economic
analysis becausethese are transfer payments and do not represent any gain or loss
because o f the project. Inany case, compensation costs are very small. Economic costs
total US$26.77 million, compared with the total financial cost o f the project o f
US$34.92 million.




                                                 55

The estimated net present value (NPV) ofthe project, usingvery conservative accident
cost values, the currentlyreportedratio of injuriesto fatalities, andbest estimatesfor the
effect o fproject interventions, i s US$23.13 million, giving an EIRRof 34 percent.

Accident Costs
Accident costs usedinthis economic analysis are those documented inTechnical Note
No. 6, RoadAccident Costing inVietnam, from the VietnamRoad Safety Improvement
Study carried out by Ross Silcock et a1inMarch 1999. The costs have beenupdatedto
March2004 values.

The accident costs usedare given below

                     Tvpe of Accident                        cost (US$)
                     Fatal accident                            15,400
                     Fatality                                  14,000
                     Injuryaccident                              600
                     Injury                                      400

These injury accident costs include an adjustment for damage-only accidents andassume
that injuries are 25 percent serious and 75 percent minor. Ifonly serious injuries are
considered, the injury cost would increase.

Internationally, willingness-to-pay has becomethe acceptedmethod to measurethe e
value of life. This approach for developed countries gives a value (usually termed the
"value of a statistical life", or the "value of a statistical fatality avoided") many times
higher than the humancapital approach. A recent study suggeststhat areasonablerange
for a country's value of statistical life appearsto be 100-200 times GDP per capita.8
Usingthe low end of this range for Vietnam would still substantially scale-up the
estimate of project benefits andthis underscoresthe conservative nature of the estimates
made using the values provided by Technical NoteNo. 6.

Traffic Data
The government's ComprehensivePoverty Reduction andGrowth Strategy is basedon
high economic growth, which will be accompaniedby high growth intraffic and
exposure to risk on the roadnetwork. Traffic growth inVietnam has beenvery high in
the past decade and, given the governmental strategy, this trend i s expectedto continue.

Limitedtraffic count informationfrom 1997to 2003 was obtained from VRA for the
demonstration corridors. This has been extrapolated to give vehicle kilometers of travel
(VKT) for eachsection ofthe corridors. The weighted averageannualtraffic growth
(linear) for the corridors using these data, basedon linear regression, is 8.6 percent (of
2003 values). The informationusedi s shown inTable A9.1



* Health,Wealth and Welfare, David E. Bloom, David Canning and Dean T. Jamison, Financeand
 Development, March2004


                                                56

c.7
a
N
Q




n
5
c
cc




n



c
c
c
n




Y
E



K
1

Accident Data
Accident data for 2000-2003 for the demonstration corridors was obtained from Regional
Road Management Units 1 and 7.The datawere captured from Traffic Police accident
reports.

Current accident reporting ratios for the demonstration corridors are 1.6 for accidentsto
fatalities, and 1.5 for injuries to fatalities. This meansthat, ineffect, the Traffic Police
report only fatal accidents anda very small proportionof serious injury accidents. There
i s even some indicationthat all fatal accidents are not reported. An accident costing study
inIndonesiafoundthat fatalities were some 40 percent greaterthanreported bypolice.
Technical Note No. 6 recognizedthe significant under-reporting ofroad accidents in
Vietnam and made some allowance for this inderivingthe accident costs. The assumed
ratio of accidents to fatalities used inTechnical NoteNo. 6 was 6.9 andthe ratio of
injuries to fatalities was 10.0.

These ratios are conservative comparedwith the ratios for countries with reasonably good
reporting regimes.For example, New Zealand has a ratio of reported accidents to
fatalities of nearly 100, a ratio of serious injuries to fatalities of about 5, and a ratio of
seriousplusminor injuries to fatalities of about 25.

Reportedaccident rates averaged for the three years 2001-2003 for the demonstration
corridors (combined), together with the associatedsocial cost, are given inTable A9.2.

                                     Table A9.2: Accident Rates

                                                                 2001-2003 Average
      Social Cost          US$ million                                          8

                           Cents per vehicle km                                19
      Accidents            Total number                                      917
                           Rate per 100 million VKT                            22
      Fatalities           Total number                                      553
                           Rate per 100 million VKT                            13
      Injuries             Total number                                      836

                           Rate per 100million VKT                             20


Itistherefore highly likely that the realnumberofaccidents onthe corridors is more like
3,0004,000. The number of accidents has little effect on the economic analysis because
it is mainlythe fatalities and injuries that incur economic cost. However, it canhave an
effect on the perception of project success.

Although it is likely that fatalities are under-reported, no adjustment has beenmade for
this inthe economic analysis. This means that the economic analysis is conservative with
regardsto this factor.

Adjustmentto the ratio of injuries to fatalities is discussedas part of sensitivity analysis.



                                                  58

Effect o f Project Interventions
Commonpractice i s to estimate rates o f accidents o f differing degrees o f severity by road
type and traffic conditions. The impact o f a project i s then forecast on the basis o fthe
expected changes to road conditions andtraffic volumes. However, accident incidence on
a section o f road or road network, like the demonstrationcorridors, i s very sensitive to
local conditions and design, and a highvariability o f accident outcome from forecast i s
not unusual. This i s partly due to the random nature o f accidents.

Although no formal research shows the effect inthe Vietnamese environment o f the
interventions proposed for the project, estimates can be made of the likely accident
reduction effect based on the incidence o fthe accident cause factors being addressed by
the project interventions together with international experience o f typical responses. The
basis for the assumptions used i s described inthe following paragraphs. These
assumptions are tested by sensitivity analysis.

International research shows that any given accident often has multiplecause factors; Le.,
there are covariance effects when considering individual accident reduction interventions.
This was kept inmindwhen estimating the following accident reduction effects, which
needto be added to giventhe overall effect for the project.

Blackspot Treatments
Blackspots are road locations with highaccident rates, typically three or more reported
per year. A total o f about 50 blackspot locations will be treated inthe four years o fthe
project-8    inyear 1, andthen 14peryear.

Blackspot treatments are based on a detailed analysis o f accident causes at the location.
Treatments are designed to remove or minimize the road-related causes. Typically,
treatment eliminates 60-80 percent o f accidents. Because blackspot treatments remove or
modify road features that cause accidents, the effect i s a percent reduction o f the
accidents that would have occurred rather than a fixed number o f accidents saved per
year-more     accidents are prevented iftraffic volume increases.

Although a significant reduction inaccidents can be achievedby treating blackspots, the
site is only a small proportion o fthe corridor length. The accident reduction effect needs
to be expressed interms o f the effect on the corridor.

Driver Licensing
Driver licensing is reportedonly as a cause factor inabout 1percent o f accidents.
However, manymotorcycle drivers have not learned the traffic laws and regulations or
have not had formal training. It is highly likely that lack o f knowledge and inadequate
skills are a much more significant cause o f accidents on the demonstration corridors.

The project addresses driver licensing and skill ina number o f ways, including stricter
enforcement o f existing laws, improved driver testing, and introduction o f a graduated
driver license system for motorcycle drivers. Motorcycle drivers were responsible for just



                                              59

over 70 percent o f road accidents in2003. It i s conservatively estimated that these new
driver licensing interventionswill reduce accidents by 3 percent throughout the project.

Vehicle Roadworthiness
Unsafe vehicles account for about 2.5 percent o f accidents reportedby the Traffic Police.
Because the roadworthiness o f a vehicle i s a technical matter, it i s likely that the real
percentage o f accidents caused by vehicle defects i s considerably higher. Vehicle factors
are typically a cause factor in5-1 0 percent o f accidents indeveloped countries where the
standard o f vehicles is more controlled than inVietnam. It i s conservatively estimated
that improved vehicle inspection and enforcement o f vehicle roadworthiness will reduce
accidents by 2 percent throughout the project.

Motorcycle Helmet Enforcement
As noted, motorcycle driverswere responsible for just over 70 percent ofroad accidents
in2003. Surveys conducted duringprojectpreparationshowed that lessthan30 percent
of motorcycle drivers andpassengers were wearing helmets inareas where helmets are
required. According to data from the Vietnam Multi-center InjurySurvey conducted in
2001, motorcyclists made up 59 percent o f road accident injuryvictims. No information
is available as to the proportion o f the motorcycle injuries that resulted from not wearing
a helmet, but the proportion is likely to be highgiven the low incidence o f helmet
wearing. Experience elsewhere indicates that, even with significant penalties andrigorous
enforcement o fhelmet laws coordinated with publicity, it takes time for compliance
levels to approach full compliance. It is unlikely that 100 percent compliance will ever be
achieved.

Inlight ofthis, the motorcycle helmet interventionsproposedinthe project shouldhavea
major effect on reducing the severity o froad accidents (reduced proportion of fatalities
andserious injuries). Wearing a motorcycle helmet will not prevent an accident, so the
effect applies only to fatalities and injuries.

Allowing for the effect o f other project interventions, it i s estimated that the project
motorcycle interventions will reduce fatalities and injuries by 10 percent inYear 1andby
22 percent at the end o fthe project.

Speed Enforcement
Speeding i s reported as being a contributing factor in35-40 percent o f accidents in
Vietnam and inabout 50 percent o f accidents on the demonstration corridors. The project
provides speed enforcement equipment and training to the Traffic Police so that speeding
on the demonstration corridors can be better controlled.

Bearing inmindthat other cause factors are likely to coexist with speeding for any given
accident, the accident reduction effect of the speed enforcement and coordinated publicity
proposed inthe project i s estimated at 10 percent for the duration o f the project. Half o f
this is appliedto reduction inaccident numbers and halfto reduction inseverity.




                                               60

Drink-DrivingEnforcement
Drink drivingis reportedas a contributing factor inapproximately 8 percent ofaccidents
nationally and 5 percent on the demonstration corridors. International experience shows
that the real rate o f alcohol-impaired driving i s likely to be nearer 20 percent inVietnam,
even allowing for cultural differences. The project provides alcohol enforcement
equipment andtraining to the Traffic Police so that drink driving on the demonstration
corridors can be better controlled.

Again allowing for covariance effects, it i s estimated that the accident reduction effect o f
improved drink-drivingenforcement and coordinated publicity will be 3 percent inthe
first two years o f the project and 5 percent inthe last two years.

Encroachment Enforcement
There are no reliable data on the accident-causing effect o f trading and other
encroachment on the demonstration corridors. Anecdotal evidence indicates that adjacent
activities spilling onto the highway i s the cause o f many accidents. A nominal accident
reduction effect o f 1percent throughout the duration o f the project has been allowed.
This recognizes the increasedattentionto encroachment enforcement proposedduringthe
project.

Road Safety Education for Schools
Road safety education for schools differs from road safety education ingeneral. Itaims to
engender a positive attitude to road safety inyoung people, both interms o f their own
personal safety as pedestrians and cyclists as youngsters and interms o f their driving
behavior when they are older. Because the main benefits o f road safety education
programs in schools are expected to be realized inlater years, it i s not surprising that
rigorous evaluations o ftheir benefits are not available. A nominal accident reduction
effect o f 1percent throughout the duration o f the project has been assumed for these
interventions.

Emergency Medical Services
Like wearing motorcycle helmets, improved emergency medical services will not reduce
the number ofaccidents onthe demonstration corridors. Rather, more immediate access
to appropriate medical services and first aid from Traffic Police for accident victims will
reduce the percentage o f fatalities and serious injuries.

Allowing for the accident reduction effect o f other project interventions, particularly
motorcycle helmet wearing, it is estimated that the improved medical services proposed
inthe project will reduce the percent offatalities and injuries by2 percentinitially, and
by 4 percent by the endo fthe project.

Summary of Estimated Intervention Effects
Table A9.3 summarizes the best-estimate interventioneffects used inthe economic
analysis.



                                               61

                              Table A9.3 Best Estimate Intervention Effects

 Effect of New Interventions  -                       Year 1       Year 2      Year 3  Year 4

 Blackspot treatments                                      3.0%1        6.0%1     9.0%1  12.0%1
 Driver Licensing - TrainingnestinglEnforcement            3.0% I       3.0%1     3.0%)   3.0'301




Sensitivity Analysis SwitchingValues for Critical Items
                          I'

A standard sensitivity test o f20 percent increase intotal project cost and20 percent
decrease inbenefits reduces the NPV to U S $ l1.72 million and the EIRRto 20 percent. It
is unlikely that all project components will increase by this amount. The switching value
for cost increase (the cost increase at which N P V becomes zero) i s 137 percent.

For this project the critical items drivingthe NPV andEIRR are the estimated savings in
fatalities and injuries rather thanproject cost. Switching values (the decrease in
intervention effect at which NPV becomes zero) cannot be calculated for individual
intervention items unless the effect i s changed to a negative value. The results o f
reducing individual interventioneffects to zero are shown inTable A9.4

                        Table A9.4. Changes for Removal of Intervention Effects

                Intervention Removed              NPV (US$ million)             EIRR
        Blackspottreatments                              15.76                  26%
        Cycle helmet enforcement                          8.72                   12%
        Speed enforcement                                15.82                  25%
        Cycle helmet + speed enforcement                  1.41                   13%


The results o f lower estimates o ftraffic growth are shown below:

                 Traffic GrowthRate         NPV (US$million)               ElRR
                            5yo                   16.29                     28%
                            3%                    12.49                     25%

The effect o f using more realistic injurynumbers (changes inratio o f injuries to fatalities)
is shown below:

             Ratio Injuries/Fatalities      NPV (US$ million1
                            5                     26.97                     39%
                          10                      32.46                     53%


                                                  62

                            Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues
                             VIETNAM: Road Safety Project



Social
The project social assessmentfound that respondents to the social survey expected the
main social development outcomes o f the project to be improved pedestrian and roaduser
safety. Because roadtraffic accidents are the leading cause o f death among children, the
project is expected to benefit vulnerable groups, which also include women andthe
elderly, inparticular.

Potential negative social impacts include small-scale landacquisition and resettlement.
For the first-year work program (treatment o f eight blackspots), a detailed census and an
inventory o f affected assets have been completed. Ten households-52       people-will lose
agricultural and residential land, structures, trees, and crops. None will be severely
affected or require relocation.

Resettlement action plans (RAP) have been adopted by the government. All involuntary
resettlement will comply with World Bank Involuntary Resettlement policy (OP/BP
4.12).

For subsequent years, blackspots to be treated have yet to be identified. However,
impacts are expected to be similar to those of the first-year program. To address
resettlement issues insubsequent years, the government has adopted a project RPF,
which will apply to any adverse impacts on project-affected people inthe area o f
clearance for civil works (see Annex 10). The RPF complies with the World Bank's
Involuntary Resettlement policy (OP/OD4.12) and Indigenous Peoples policy (OD 4.20).

The NTSC carried out extensive consultation with communities along the selected roads
duringthe preliminaryidentificationo fblackspots andduringthe social assessment
surveyprocess. Feedback and concerns raisedduringpublic consultationwere taken into
account indetermining an approach to the project environmental assessment and EMP,
location o f blackspots, blackspot treatments, and monitoring framework.

The TS PMU and provincial and district authorities will work with provincial committees
to implement the RAPSandwill be responsible for monitoring social development
outcomes andmanagingtheir respective frameworks. Itwill be supported by consulting
services to ensure that they can develop and apply operational manuals and procedures
under the project as well as work with contractors and local authorities. An independent
monitoring agency will monitor compliance. An evaluation is proposed two to three years
after completion o f resettlement to determine whether the project-affectedpeople's
incomes and livelihood have improved or at least been restoredto pre-project levels.
Additional assistance will be provided to those who have not been able to restore their
incomes.




                                               63

The project will monitor social development impacts duringimplementation using the
Monitoringand Evaluation Framework outlined above.

Environment
The project has been rated as an environmental category B.

The overall environmental impact o f the project i s expected to be positive through
substantially improved road safety, particularly inthe demonstration corridors.

The negative environmental impacts o fthe project are expected to be minor and limited
to the blackspot treatment component o f the project, which includes civil works such as
installation o f guard rails, signage, and rumble strips; construction o ftraffic islands and
segregated traffic lanes; and minor road widening and improvements to accommodate
pedestrian paths and improve site distances and curvature.

An environmental assessmenthasbeenprepared for the project inaccordance with World
Bank policies. An EMP for the project has beenprepared, taking into considerationthe
findings ofthe environmental assessment. The EMPincludes a policy framework and
guidelines for environmental assessmentand impact mitigation for annual work programs
as they are identified. The policy framework outlines studies and actions that may be
requiredto ensure that a work package meets the Bank's environmental and social
requirements. All work package proposals will be required to contain basic
environmental and social informationto determine whether they are likely to have
significant environmental impact or require landor asset acquisition or resettlement.
Roadworks with minor impacts will use the standard operating procedures outlined in
the EMPbefore the design is approved. It i s not expected that any works will have
serious environmental impacts.

IDA undertook field investigationsinOctober 2004 to confirm the findings ofthe
environmental assessment and found that little undisturbed habitat o f special-status
wildlife species exists inthe project area or immediate environs. The project proposes no
bypass, realignment, or other action inundisturbed areas. No blackspot treatments are
near a national park. All works will be on existing roadways, and road improvements will
be performed withinpresent alignments. Where works identified for first-year investment
include land acquisition and displacement o fpeople, resettlement action plans have been
prepared and a policy framework adopted for future years.

No long-term impact to area soils from increased pollutant levels is anticipated. Changes
to hydrological characteristics are not considered significant. The overall impacts on the
environment are expected to be minor and confined to construction areas. Overall, the
project will generate long-term positive impacts as traffic flows and road safety improve.

Most adverse impacts will be mitigated through contract provisions and supervision by
the implementing agency and its construction supervision consultant. Contract
specifications concerning contractors' responsibilities during civil works are provided in
the environmental assessment and EMP. Contractual requirements call for contractors to



                                              64

develop environmental management, safety, and traffic control plans subject to approval
o f the construction supervision consultant's supervising engineer. The cost o f
implementing the EMP at the works package level will be included inthe cost o f
individual civil works contracts.

The EMPs specify contract provisions goveming the sources o f construction materials
andthe means o ftransport. Construction contracts will require the acquisition o f
construction material (such as sand and gravel) according to the EMP, and only
authorized borrow pits and licensedquarries, ifneeded, are to be used. Measures for
timely site stabilization and erosioncontrol are included. Contract documents will include
the stipulation that no cement manufacturedfrom dredged coastal coral resources is to be
used. N o pesticides or chemicals to control vegetation will be used. The EMP also
includes stipulations on spill prevention and cleanup, dust and noise control, traffic
management duringconstruction, safety enhancement, andconstruction site cleanup and
rehabilitation. Although no cultural relics have been identified, the contract documents
will include provisions for handling chance finds o f relics.

The final environmental assessment was received and cleared by the Bank inDecember
2003 and disclosed thereafter incompliance with the World Bank's disclosure policy.
The Government adopted all project safeguards documents inletters dated May 10,2005,
and May 11,2005. The environmental documents to be used by the Government during
implementation o f the project are (i) VietnamRoad Safety Project (Phase I),
EnvironmentalAssessment, OPUS InternationalConsultants andTransport Development
Strategy Institute, Ministry o f Transport, Vietnam, November 2004; and (ii)   Vietnam
RoadSafety Project (Phase l),Environmental Management Planfor Engineering Works,
OPUS International Consultants and Transport Development Strategy Institute, Ministry
o f Transport, Vietnam, November 2004.

Public consultation meetings were held ina sample o f communes inthe demonstration
corridors. The social assessment and final EMP developed for the project reflect the
stakeholders' comments and suggestions. The findings from public consultation are
summarized ina stand-alone report, Vietnam Road Safety Project, Public Consultation
Meetings, dated November 2004, which is available inproject files and has been publicly
disclosed.

The EMP requires baseline androutine air, water, and noise monitoring. Reporting o f
environmental parameters (e.g., dust, safety, sanitation) will be included insite diaries
routinely maintained by the construction supervision consultants and environmental units
o fthe implementing agencies andreported inprogress reports. Frequencies, parameters,
locations, and methods are detailed inthe EMP. Reporting on environmental monitoring
will be standardized, and monitoring data will be submittedto local environmental
authorities. The capacity buildingprogram described inthe EMPwill address the
environmental training needs o f the NTSC, provincial departments, TS P M U staff
responsible for environmental issues, and contractors.




                                              65

              Appendix to Annex 10: ResettlementPolicyFramework

A    INTRODUCTION

i)   Project Description

     The Vietnam Road Safety Project (VRSP) -Phase 1consists of the following nine linked
     components:

     1. Strengthen the management and technical capacity o f the NTSC and prepare a
         national roll-out program for phase 2 ofthe road safety strategy;

     2. Demonstrate comprehensive, integrated safety programmes in three high risk
         corridors and develop the programmes for nationwide application. The designated
         "safe highway" corridors are:
          - National Highway 1(km 172-km463) Hanoi to Vinh
          - National Road 51(km0 -km75) DongNaiprovince to Vung Tau
          - National Highway 1(km 1915 -km2068) Ho Chi MinhCity to Can Tho;
     3.  Develop nationwide traffic accident monitoring and analysis tools;

     4. Enhance the application of road safety audit;

     5.  Enhance the identificationo f and responseto accident blackspots;

     6. Improve driver training, testing and licensing, and vehicle testing;

     7. Improve traffic safety enforcement and coordinated road user education and
         awarenesscampaigns;

     8. Improve pre-schooland school-basedroad safety education; and

     9. Improve the state o f readiness, awareness and co-ordinated response o f emergency
         services.

     O f these nine components, only Component 5: Blackspot Improvement works will
     involve any engineering works and land acquisition at a small scale.

     The goal for the four-year, US$25 million VRSP Phase 1 is to reduce poverty and
     vulnerability by reducing the rate o f road transport accidents, injuries, and deaths in
     Vietnam. Achieving this goal will contribute to the achievement o f the World Bank
     Group's Country Assistance Strategy for Vietnam Theme 2, Enhancing Equitable,
     Socially Inclusive and Sustainable Development, Agenda item (vi), Mitigating the
     impacts of natural disasters and other shocks, and the Government o f Vietnam's
     Comprehensive Poverty Reduction Growth Strategy Goal 8 - Reducing Vulnerability.
     The latter address health shocks that push people into poverty or make escape from
     poverty difficult.

ii)  Resettlement Policy Framework

     This Resettlement Policy Framework lays down the principles and objectives, eligibility
     criteria of Displaced Persons (DPs), entitlements, legal and institutional framework,


                                             66

     modes o f compensation and rehabilitation, peoples' participation features and grievances
     procedures that will guide the compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of the DPs.

B    DEFINITIONOFKEY TERMS

i)   DisplacedPersons

     The DPs include the person or persons, household, firm or a private or public institution
     to be identified by the baseline information collected for each of the Inventories and
     Resettlement Action Plans (RAPS) who, on account of the execution of the Project, have
     experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by:

    (i)    the involuntary taking of land, resulting in:

                   Relocationof loss of shelter;
                   Loss of assets or accessto assets; or
                   Loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such person
                   must move to another location; or

    (ii)    the involuntaryrestrictionof access to legally designated parks and protected areas,
           resultinginadverse impacts onthe livelihood of such person.
     "Displaced Persons" means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons.

ii)   Compensation

     Compensation includes the process o f financial or material reimbursement of DPs who
     lost partial or the absolute value o f their assets as a result o f the Project. Compensation
     also includes the valuation and reimbursement in monetary terms or in kind of financial
     and physical lossesas a result of impacts o f the Project.

iii)  Cut-off date

     The cut-off date is the last day of the survey when all DPs have been accounted for and
     this day will be clearly stated to DP by relevant authorities.. After the cut-off date, no
     other DPs may be included inthe inventory o f DPs. The inventory lists all potential DPs,
      including their baseline information. People who move residences or business assets into
     or within the marked right o f way after the cut-off date are not entitled to compensation
     under this policy framework.

iv)  Rehabilitation

     Rehabilitation means providing assistance to DPs severely affected due to the substantial
      or entire loss of productive assets, incomes, employment or sources or living, to
      supplement payment of compensation for acquired assets in order to improve, or at least
      achieve full restoration of incomes and living standards to the pre-project levels.

v)    Replacement Cost

      With regardto the landand structures, "Replacement Cost" is defined as follows:




                                              67

     (a) For agricultural land: it i s the pre-project or pre-displacement, whichever is higher,
          market value of land of equal productive potential or use located inthe vicinity or the
          affected land, plus the cost of preparing the land to levels similar to those of the
          affected land, plus the cost o f any registrationand transfer taxes.

     (b) For land in urban areas: it is the pre-displacement market value of land o f equal size
          and use, with similar or improved public infrastructure facilities and services and
          located in the vicinity o f the affected land, plus the cost of any registration and
          transfer taxes.

     (c) For houses and other structures, it is the market cost of the materials to build a
          replacement structure with an area and quality similar to or better than those of the
          affected structure, or to repair a partially affected structure, plus the cost of
          transporting building materials to the construction site, plus the cost o f any labor and
          contractors' fees, plus the cost of any registration and transfer taxes. In determining
          the replacement cost, depreciation of the asset and the value of salvage materials are
          not taken into account, not is the value o f benefits to be derived from the project
          deducted from the valuation of an affected asset.

     (d) Crops, trees and other perennials basedon current market value.

              i.Compensation for annualcrops isequivalenttotheproductionoverthe last
                three years multiplied by the market price for agricultural products at the time
                 of the calculationo f the compensation.
             ii.Compensation for trees includes total investment cost plusproduction cost
                 from the time of its planting to the expropriation. In case this cost cannot be
                 determined, the compensation will be calculated on the basis o f the type, age
                 and productivevalue.

      (e) Other assets (i.e. income, cultural, aesthetic) based on replacement cost or cost
          mitigating measures. For example, compensation for the movement of graves
          includes all expenditures for exhumation, movement and reconstruction to its
          original state.

vi)  Resettlement

     Resettlement refers to all measures taken by the Project Proponent to mitigate any and all
     adverse social impacts of a project onthe DPs, including compensation for lost assets and
      incomes and the provision o f other entitlements, income rehabilitation assistance and
     relocation, as needed.

vii) Right of Way

     For this Policy Framework, Right o f Way (ROW) is determinedby measuring both sides
     of the road, starting from the existing or proposed centerline to the outside edge of the
     cleared zone.




                                                68

viii) Vulnerable Groups

      Vulnerable groups include those distinct groups of people who might suffer
      disproportionately or face the risk of being marginalized by the effects of resettlement,
      and specifically include:

      (a) Poor and very poor communes as identifiedby the 1999national survey results.

      (b) Ethnic minorities.

      (c) Mentally and physically handicapped people or people inpoor physical health.

      (d) Infants, children andwomen.

      (e) Households without security of tenure or with tenure status.

ix)   DPs withoutLegal Title

      DPs without legal title are occupants of land and housing without legal ownership rights
      and individuals or groups o f people with shops conducting business in the immediate
      project areas without official registration and who will be adversely impacted by the
      Project through displacement. DPs without legal title are entitled to compensation
      provided their assets affected by the project were documented in the pre-project census
      prior to the cut off date.

x)    Ethnidndigenous People

      Ethnichdigenous People are defined as persons who belong to a minority tribal group
      affected in part of in total (temporarily or permanently) by the Project due to acquisition
      o f their lands, dwellings, disturbance or their place of work, and other Project-related
      adverse impacts.

xi)   Land UseRegistration Certificate(LURC)

      LURC is similar to a title granted to DPs that legalize their use of the lands and/or houses
      they occupy.

xii)  RelocationSite

      The relocation site is defined as the area allocated for the resettlement of DPs living on
      both sides o f the VRSP sub-projects that are severely affected and who choose relocation
      over cash compensation.

C     OBJECTIVES

i)    The principle objective of the Resettlement Policy Framework is to ensure that all DPs
      will be compensated for their losses at replacement cost and provided with other
      assistanceand rehabilitation measuresto assist them to improve, or at least maintain, their
      pre-project living standards and income earning capacity.



                                               69

ii) Everyeffortwillbemadetoavoidlandacquisitionimpacts,orwhereitisnotpossible,to
     minimize displacement and adverse impacts of projects by examining all available design
     options.

iii) Shouldtheneedforresettlementoccur,itwillbetreatedasanintegralpartoftheproject
     and be implementedinfull consultation and participationwith the DisplacedPersons.

iv)  Attention is paid to affected vulnerable groups in order to enhance their future prospects
     and for poverty alleviation.

D    PRINCIPLES

     The policy o f World Bank's Operational Policy 4.12 on involuntary have been adopted in
     preparingthis Resettlement Policy Framework. Inthis regardthe following principles and
     objectives will be applied:

     For each project a separate resettlement study shall be carried out, including planning and
     implementation of an RP if required, funding, monitoring and evaluation of subsequent
     action.

ii) Acquisition of land and other assets, and a resettlement study shall be carried out,
     including planning and implementationof an RP if required, funding and monitoring and
     evaluation of subsequentaction.

iii) The Project is not anticipated to involve the acquisition of or impact on wildlife
     sanctuaries, protected habitats, or areas of cultural sensitivity.

iv)  Special attention will be placed on minimizing the adverse impact on vulnerable groups
     and where this is unavoidable, assistance would be provided to achieve stated objectives
     o f this policy framework.

     All DPs residing, working, doing business or cultivating land in right of way (ROW) of
     the Project roads and other project areas, as of the date of the baseline surveys, are
     entitled to be provided with compensation, other assistance and rehabilitation measures
     sufficient to assist them to improve or at least maintain their pre-Project living standards,
     income earning capacity and production levels. Lack of legal rights to the assets lost will
     not bar the DPfiom entitlement to such measures.

vi)  The compensation measures to be provided are:

     (a) Compensation at replacement cost without deduction for depreciation or salvage
          materials for houses and other structures;

     (b) Agricultural land for land of equal productive capacity acceptable to the DP or in
          case suitable replacement land is not available and at `informed request' o f DPs,
          compensation incash at replacement cost.




                                               70

      (c) Replacement of premise land of equal size acceptable to the DP or in case suitable
          replacement land is not available cash compensation at replacement cost may be
          provided at `informed request' of the DPs;

      (d) Transfer, transitionand subsistence allowances;

      (e) Compensation at replacement cost for temporary impacts;

      (f) Compensation at replacement cost or assistant package for DP without legal rights to
          their affected assets as identifiedbefore the cut-off date to ensure that they are not
          worse-off due to the project;

      (g) Economic rehabilitation assistance for severely affected DPs and vulnerable groups
          to improve, or at least restore their incomes and standards of living pre-project level
          on a sustainable basis;

      (h) Inthe case of loss of business, DPs will be providedwith a special allowance for the
          loss o f business income duringthe transition period;

      (i)Compensationatreplacementcostofpartialimpactsonexistingstructurestogether
          with allowance for repair of remaining structures; and

      (`j)Replacement premises and agricultural land will as nearly as possible be equal in
          value to the landthat was lost, and acceptableto the DP.

vii)  The resettlement transition period will be minimized and the compensation and other
      rehabilitation means will be provided to the DPs no later than five month (for DPs who
      are fully affected on houses) and two months (for DP who are partially affected on
      houses) prior to the expected start-up date of civil works inthe respective Project site.

viii) Tenants who have leased a house/structures for residential or other purposes and are
      affected by the project will be provided with cash assistance equivalent to six months
      rental allowance and to cover for other losses, and will be assisted in finding alternative
      rental accommodation.

ix)   Plans for acquisition o f land and other assets and provision of compensation and other
      rehabilitation measureswill be carried out inconsultation with the DPs, to ensure minimal
      disturbance. Entitlements will be provided by DPs no later than one month prior to
      expected start-up of works at the respective project site.

x)    The previous level of community services and resourceswill be maintained or improved.

xi)   Any acquisition of, or restriction on access to resources owned or managed by the
      affected community as a common property, should be mitigated by arrangement ensuring
      access to improved, or at least equivalent resourceson a continuing basis.

xii)  Financial and physical resources for resettlement and rehabilitationwill be made available
      as and when required.




                                               71

xiii) Institutional arrangements will ensure effective and timely design, planning, consultation
      and implementation ofthe Inventories and RPs.

xiv)  Effective and timely supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the
      Inventories and RPs will be carried out.


XV)   All replacement land for agriculture, residential and businesses will be provided with
      security tenure stated and without any additional cost, sales taxes, fee and surcharge to the
      DPs at any time of transfer.

E      ENTITLEMENTS

DPs will be entitled to the following types of compensation and rehabilitationmeasures:

i)    DPs losingagricultural land and crops

       (a) DPs with legal or legalizable rights of land use:

                  i.The general mechanism for compensation of lost agricultural land will be
                   through provision of "land for land" arrangements o f equal productive
                   capacity, satisfactory to the DP. However, if the DP prefers to receive cash
                   compensation or replacement land is not available thenthe following applies:

                         Ifthe portionofthe landto be lostrepresents20% or lessofthetotal area
                          of the landholding, and the remaining land is still a viable economic
                         holding, cash compensation, at full replacement cost, may be provided to
                         the DP; or

                         If more than 20% of a villager's agricultural land is acquired and the
                         remaining holding i s not viable then the Project will acquire the entire
                          landholding and provide cash compensation at full replacement cost.
                 ii.DPswillbecompensatedforthelossofstandingcropsandfruitorindustrial
                     trees at market price. Productive trees will be compensated at replacement
                     cost.
                 iii.DPswhose landistemporarilytakenbytheworksundereachsub-project
                     will be compensatedfor their loss of income, standing crops and for the cost
                     o f restoration o f the land to its previous productive status, and for damaged
                      infrastructure.
                 iv. Severely affected DPs. A severely affected DP is one who loses 20% or
                     more of their assets in any of the following categories: agricultural land,
                     and/or residential landwith or without structures.
                 v. Severely affected DPs and vulnerable groups will receive economic
                     rehabilitation assistance in the form o f income rehabilitation programs,
                     training to improve skills and other assistance for self-employment enabling
                     them to attain, at a minimum, pre-project livelihood levels on a sustainable
                     basis.
       (b) DPs without legalor legalizable rightso f landuse.




                                                   72

            i. DPswhoareleftwithnoagriculturalland,orwhoseremaininglandisless
               than the standard in the locality (the standard for households' agricultural
                land area is based on the number of laborers in the household, and is
               determined by the PPC for the locality), will be provided with replacement
               agricultural land to meet the standard of the locality to ensure the
               achievement o fthe policy objectives.
            ii.TheremainingDPswillnotbeprovidedwithlandcompensation, buttheir
                lost crops, houses and other assets will be compensated fully at replacement
               cost.

ii) DPs losingresidential landand structures:

    (a) DPs with legal or legalizable rightsof land use

            i. Themechanismforcompensatinglossofresidentiallandandstructureswill
               be: (1) the provision of replacement residential land (house site and garden)
               o f equivalent size, satisfactory to the DP or in cash at the replacement cost;
                and (2) cash compensation reflecting full replacement cost o f the structures,
               without deduction for depreciation or salvage materials.
            ii.Iftheresidentiallandand/or structureisonlypartiallybeingaffectedbythe
                Project and the remaining residential land is not sufficient to rebuild the
                residential structure lost in accordance with the prevailing standards, then at
               the request of the DP the entire residential land and structure will be
               acquired at full replacement cost, without depreciation.
            iii.All relocated DPs will be provided with transportation and subsistence
               allowances as specified inArticle 4 o fDecree 22/CP.
            iv. Tenants who have leased a house for residential purposes will be provided
               with a cash grant of from three to six months rental fee at the prevailing
               market rate in the area, and will be assisted in identifying alternative
                accommodation.
            v. Severely affected DPs and vulnerable groups will receive shelter or other
                forms o f economic rehabilitation from the GOV if deemed necessary and
                where applicable.

            vi. In case o f partial impact on structures and where the remaining structures
                remain viable for continued use, DPs will also be entitled to additional
                allowance for repair of remaining structure.
    (b) DPs without legal or legalizable rightso f landuse
            i. Intermsoftheirlands:IftheDPsdonothaveotherresidentiallandorthe
               remaining land is not sufficient enough for rebuilding the new house, they
                will be provided with replacement land to meet the standard size o f the
                locality.
            ii.Forthe other casesthere willbenolandcompensation, buttheir houses,
                structures and other assets on land will be compensated as DPs with legal or
               legalizable rightso f land use.
iii) DPslosingbusiness




                                            73

     (a) The mechanism for compensating loss of business will be the same that applies for
         the lost residential land and structures such as: (1) the provision of alternative
         business site o f equal size and accessibility to customers, satisfactory to the DP; (2)
         cash compensation for lost business structures reflecting full replacement cost of the
         structures, without depreciation or deduction for salvaged building material. In
         addition, DP will receive cash compensation for the loss o f income during the
         transition period.

     (b) DPs will also be provided compensation at full replacement cost, without deduction
         for depreciation and salvage materials for any other fixed assets affected in part or in
         total by the Project, such as tombs and water wells.

     (c) In cases where community infrastructure such as schools, factories, water sources,
         roads and sewage systems is damaged, the GOV will ensure that these would be
         restored or repaired as the case may be, at no cost to the community.

iv)  Other support policies

    Article 26 of Decree 22 provides that based on local conditions, the Chairperson of the
     People's Committee o f the province of a city may decide on a number of policies
     pertaining to the allowances paid to the persons whose lands are to be acquired for the
    Project. These include:

     (a) Families with a member or members who is/are receiving social allowances from the
         State and who have to move their dwelling places due to the recovery o f the land
         shall receive a minimumallowance of 1,000,000 VND.
     (b) Relocation assistanceto a transition period in six months, equivalent to 30 kg o f rice
         per month per person

     (c) An organization, household or an individual who i s a user of the land and who carries
         out the dismantling of the construction, who moves according to the plan o f the
         Council o f Compensation for ground clearance shall receive a maximum award of
         5,000,000 VND per household.

F    INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK

i)  Institutional Framework
     The responsibility for implementingthe Resettlement Policy Framework and RPs are as
     follows:

     (a) The overall responsibility for enforcement o f the Policy Framework and for planning
         and implementing RPs rests with the Government and/or the Vietnam Roads
         Administration, VRA. The GOV is responsible for preparing inventories and RPs and
         for the day-to-day implementation thereof within their respective jurisdiction. The
         peoples' committees at the commune level will ensure active and effective
         participation of the DPs in the preparationand implementation o fthe RPs.

     (b) Funds for implementingRPs will be provided by the Government based on the costs
         estimated and presented in the RPs. In case o f overruns of costs due to unforeseen



                                             74

       delays or other circumstances, the Government will be responsible for providing
       necessaryadditional funds as and when requiredto cover all resettlement costs.

io Legal Framework
    (a) The OP 4.12 of the World Bank on involuntary resettlement.

    (b) Land law 2003 and Decrees no. 181/2004/ND-CP and no. 182/2004/ND-CP to guide
        on the implementationofthis laws

    (c) Decree No 87-CP provides for minimum and maximum prices for compensation of
        different categories of land. These prices have been established for purposes of
        leasing government land, acquisitionof land by government, for tax value for transfer
        o f land use rights and for national and public purposes. The prices established in this
       Decree are set administratively and may not be adequate for compensating the value
       o f the land lost in accordance with the principles and objectives of this Framework
        (full replacement cost). There is therefore need for the GOV to issue a special
        decision providing for the waiver of the provisions of Decree 87-CP and allowing
        payment of compensation at replacement cost without deduction for depreciation of
        salvage materials.

    (d) Decree No 22-CP, which was enacted on April 24, 1998, has significant
        improvements over earlier decrees. These improvements are as follows: it provides
        for a wider coverage and increased amounts for transition and moving expenses in
        relocation; provides for land and cash options for compensation; introduces
        entitlement for land at above administrative rates in the statement "compensation
        suitable to the profit-making capability ..." and eligibility for entitlement expanded
        from legal land users to include: (i)   "legalizable land users"; and (ii) using
                                                                                    those
        public right of way can be considered "case by case". However, the Decree provides
       that those without legal rights to landandhouses will not be entitled to compensation
        (Articles 7 and 16). The Decree provides for the establishment of compensation
        prices that could result in less then 100% replacement cost without depreciation for
        land (Article 8) and for houses and structures (Articles 17 and 18). The Decree allows
        for rental allowances that could be established as less than 100% value of the DP's
        current rental rate (Article 25). These articles are contrary to the principles and
        entitlement policy outlined in this Framework and, therefore, GOV will issue a
        special decision providing for the waiver o f provisions within Articles 7, 8, 16, 17, 18
        and 25 of Decree 22 that are inconsistent with guidelinesof the World Bank.

    (e) Circular 145/1998 o f MOF to guide on the implementation o f Decree 22/1998-ND-
        CP.

    (f) Decree No 172/1999/CP, which was enacted on December 19, 1999, and became
        effective as of January 1, 2000, stipulates that DPs within the ROW will be
        compensated for land and properties if they occupied them prior to the enactment of
        the Decree. In project areas where the Decree has been fully applied, the policy is
        consistent with guidelines of the World Bank. In project areas where the Decree has
        not been correctly affected, this Decree will be waived for DPs without legal or



                                             75

         legalizable rights of land use. All DPs residing, doing business or cultivating land in
         the ROW of VRSP roads and other project areas, as of the date of the DMS survey,
         are entitled to compensation and other rehabilitation measures defined in the RAP.
         Lack of legal rights to fixed assets will not bar DPs from entitlement to
         compensation.

     (g) In approving this Framework, the Government grants the above mentioned required
         waivers and agrees to waiver all other decrees, regulations, laws or components
         thereof that are inconsistent with OP 4.12, as well as authorizes the Ministry of
         Transport and local authorities to provide: (a) compensation at 100% replacement
         cost without deduction for depreciation and salvage materials, for land, houses and
         other assets taken by the project; (b) compensation or assistance package and
         resettlement assistance to all displaced persons regardless of their lack o f title to land
         or properties lost; and (c) rental allowances at 100%of the DP's current rental rate.

G    PUBLIC PARTICIPATION, CONSULTATION,COMPLAINTS AND
     GRIEVANCES

i)   Public Participation and Consultation
     DPs will participate throughout the various stages of the planning and implementation of
     the Inventoriesand RPs. For these purposes and priorto the preparationo fthe Inventories
     and RPs, the DPs will be informed o f the provisions of this Policy Framework at public
     meetings at local provincial and district levels as well as by the District Peoples'
     Committee and Communes Peoples' Committees. Each household DP will be fully
     informed by the Government through relevant District Peoples' Committee and/or
     Communes Peoples' Committees of their entitlements and rehabilitation choices under
     the respective Inventoryor RP.

ii)  Complaintsand Grievances
     Complaints and grievances related to any aspect of RPs, including the determined area
     and price o fthe lost assets, will be handled as follows:

     (a) As a first stage, DPs will present their complaints and grievances to the Commune
         People's Committee, which will have to provide a written response to the DP, within
         fifteen calendar days o f receiving the complaint.

     (b) Ifthe DP is not satisfied with the decision ofthe CPC, the DP may present the case to
         the District People's Committee or District Resettlement Committee within fifteen
         calendar days o f receiving the written response from the CRC authorities. The
         decision of the DPC or DRC should be sent to DP by no later than fifteen calendar
         days of receipt o fthe DPs appeal.

     (c) If the DP is not satisfied with the decision at the second level, the case may be
         submitted for consideration by the District Court or to Provincial People's
         Committee.

         DPs will be exempted from all administrative and legal fees.



                                                76

H     MONITORINGAND SUPERVISION

i. ImplementationoftheRPswillberegularlysupervisedandmonitoredbytheGovernment
     incoordinationwiththe respective PRC and DRCs. The findingswill be recorded in
     quarterly reports to be furnishedto the Government. Internal monitoring and supervision
     will:

      (a) Verify that the baseline information of all DPs has been carried out and that the
           valuation of assets lost or damaged, and the provision of compensation, resettlement
           and other rehabilitation entitlements has been carried out in accordance with the
           provisions of this Policy Framework and the respective Inventory and RP.

      (b) Overseethat the RPs are implementedas designed and approved.

      (c) Verify that funds for implementing the RPs are provided to the respective GOV at
           local level (provincial/district) in a timely manner and in amounts sufficient for their
           purposes, and that such funds are used by the GOV inaccordance with the provisions
           of the RP.

      (d) Recordall grievances and their resolutionandensure that complaints are dealt with in
           a timely manner.
..
11.  An independent agency or agencieswill beretainedby the GOV to periodically carry out
     external monitoring and evaluation o fthe implementationofthe RPS. The independent
     agencies will be academic or research institutions, non Governmental Organizations
     (NGO) or independentconsulting firms, all with qualified and experienced staff and terms
     of reference acceptable to the World Bank.
...
111. Inaddition to verifying the information furnishedinthe internal supervisionand
     monitoringreports, the external monitoring agency will visit a sample of 10%o f household
     DPS ineachrelevant province six months after each RP implementation to:

      (a) Determine whether the procedures for DPs participation and delivery of
           compensation and other rehabilitation entitlements have been done in accordance
           with this Policy Framework and the respective RP.

      (b) Assess if the Policy Framework objective or enhancement or at least restoration of
           living standards and income levels of DPs have beenmet.

      (c) Gather qualitative indications of the social and economic impact of Project
           implementation onthe DPs.

      (d) Suggest modification in the implementation procedures of the RPS, as the case may
           be, to achieve the principles and objectives ofthis Policy Framework.

I COSTSANDBUDGET

i. EachRPwillincludedetailedcostofcompensationandotherrehabilitationentitlements
     and relocation o f DPS, if that be the case, with a breakdown by agricultural land,



                                                  77

       residential land, business land, houses, businesses and other assets. The cost estimates will
       make adequate provision for supervision, monitoring and management costs and
       contingencies.

11.    Sources of fundingfor the various RP activities will be clearly specified inthe cost tables.

J       IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS

i. SourcesoffundingforthevariousRpactivitieswillbeclearlyspecifiedinthecost
       table. A detailed implementation schedule of the various activities to be undertaken
       will be included ineachRP.
..
11.    Payment of compensation and furnishingof other rehabilitation entitlements (in cash or in-
       kind), except where long-term economic rehabilitation measures are required, and
       relocation ifthat be the case, will be completed at least one month prior to the initiation of
       civil works activities.
...
111.   Administrative and legal fees: DPs will be exempt from all administrative and legal fees in
       connectionwith compensation determination, payment and RPs.

K       RESETTLEMENTPLANNING

1.     Resettlement Plans

The scope and level o f detail of the resettlement plan vary with the magnitude and complexity of
resettlement. The plan is based on up-to-date and reliable information about (a) the proposed
resettlement and its impacts on the displaced persons and other adversely affected groups, and (b)
the legal issues involved inresettlement.

An annual Resettlement Plan (RP) or Abbreviated RPs ( in case impacts on entire affected
population by subproject are minor or fewer than 200 displaced persons) will be prepared by the
respective Provincial Project Management Unit (PPMU) inaccordance with the provisions o f this
Resettlement Policy Framework and OP 4.12. The RP or abbreviated RP will be furnished by the
Government to the IDA for its reviewconcurrence.

The RP covers the elements below, as relevant (1) Description o f the project; (2) Potential
impacts; (3) Objectives; (4) Socioeconomic studies; (5) Legal framework; (6) Institutional
Framework; (7) Eligibility; (8) Valuation of and compensation for losses; (9) Resettlement
measures; (10) Site selection, site preparation, and relocation; (1l)Housing, infrastructure, and
social services; (12) Environmental protection and management; (13) Community participation;
(14) Integration with host populations; (15)         Grievance procedures; (16) Organizational
responsibilities; (17) Implementation schedule; (18) Costs and budget; (19) Monitoring and
evaluation.

An abbreviated RP will include of (1) a census survey of displaced persons and valuation of
assets; (2) description of compensation and other resettlement assistance to be provided; (3)
consultations with displaced people about acceptable alternatives; (4) institutional responsibility
for implementation and procedures for grievance redress; (5) arrangements for monitoring and
implementation; and (6) a timetable and budget.


                                                 78

Each RP or abbreviated RP will be completed no later than six months prior to the estimated date
for commencement of the works under the respective road or segment thereof. Each RP will be
furnished to IDA for consideration no later than four months prior to the actual initiation of the
works under the Project. Compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation activities will only
commence after IDA has found acceptable the respective RP and the GOV has approved it. The
compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation activities will be completed at least one month
before the beginningof works underthe respective road or segment thereof.
..
11.   Baseline Information

             Census and Inventory: will include the following information for each DP
             household:

                   0   Numberofpersons and names;
                   0   Number, type and areaofthe houses lost;
                   0   Number and areaof allthe residentialplots lost;
                   0   Number,category and areaof agricultural land lost;
                   0   Quantity and types of crops and trees lost;
                   0   Businesses lost including structures, land and other fixed assets;
                   0   Productive assets lost as a percentage of total productive assets;
                   0   Quantity and category of other fixed assets affected by each sub-project;
                   0   Temporary damage to productive assets;
                   0   Loss of incomes and employment.

             The entitlement of assets and land affected are calculated based on the above
             information.

             Detailed socioeconomic survey o f the DPs describing their age, sex, ethnicity,
             education, occupation, estimates o f household expenditure patterns, skills
             possessed, savings and debts, and record of fixed and moveable assets.




                                               79


                     Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision
                              VIETNAM: RoadSafety Project



Milestone                                           Planned                     Actual
PCNreview                                  December 18,2003             December 17,2003
InitialPID to PIC                          December 19,2003             December 18,2003
Initial ISDS to PIC                    ,   December 19,2003              January 5,2004
Appraisal                                  November 30,2004             December 17,2005
Negotiations                               February 7,2005              April 29,2005
BoardRVP approval                          March 8, 2005                 June 7,2005
Effectiveness                              October 27, 2005
Closing                                    December 31,2009


Key institutions responsible for preparation of the project: NTSC; Ministryof Transport, VRA;
Vietnam Register; Ministryo f Public Security; Ministryo f Education and Training; and Ministry
o f Health.
Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:
Name                                                  Title                             Unit
Jerry A. Lebo               Task Team Leader, Sr. Transport Specialist               EASTR
SimonD.Ellis                Transport Specialist                                     EASTR
Anthony G.Bliss             Senior Road Safety Specialist                            TUTDR
PhuongThi MinhTran          Operations Officer                                        EASTR
VinhQuoc Duong              Operations Officer                                       EASEN
HongVu                      Operations Officer                                        EASSD
ThuThiMinhNguyen            Operations Officer                                       EASHD
ImogeneJensen               Senior Economist, Quality Reviewer                        EASTR
Quyen Do Duong              Finance Analyst                                          EACVF
HungViet Le                 Financial Management Specialist                           EACVF
BehdadNowroozi              Sr. Financial Management Specialist                       EAPCO
Jennifer Thomson            Sr. FinancialManagement Specialist                        EAPCO
Irina Luca                  Sr. Procurement Specialist                                EAPCO
Thang ChienNguyen           Sr. Procurement Specialist                                EACVF
HungKimPhung                Sr. Finance Officer                                       LOAGl
DungAnhHoang                Operations Officer                                        EASTR
Aurelio Menendez            Sr. Transport Economist, Peer Reviewer                    LCFST
Richard Scurfield           Sector Manager, Peer Reviewer                             TUDTR
Eva Jarawan                 LeadHealth Specialist, Peer Reviewer                      AFTH3
Nga Thi Viet Nguyen         Team Assistant                                            EACVF
Christopher D e Serio       ProgramAssistant                                          EASTR
Andrea Heggen               Editor                                                    EASTR




                                                 81


                        Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
                            VIETNAM: RoadSafety Project



A.      Consultant'sReports
Preparation of VietnamRoadSafety Project (Phase I),Inception Report. OPUS
International Consultants and Transport Development Strategy Institute, Ministry of
Transport, Vietnam, January 30,2004.
Preparation of a National TrafJic Accident Database-A Study, Road Network
Improvement Project. Consia Consultants, June, 2003.
VietnamRoad Safety Project (Phase I),Project Implementation Plan, OPUS
International Consultants andTransportDevelopment Strategy Institute, Ministry of
Transport, Vietnam, November, 2004.
Vietnam Road Safety Project (Phase I),Social Assessment, OPUS International
Consultants and Transport Development Strategy Institute, Ministry of Transport,
Vietnam, November, 2004.
VietnamRoad Safty Project (Phase I),Environmental Assessment, OPUS International
Consultants and Transport Development Strategy Institute, Ministry of Transport,
Vietnam, November, 2004.
VietnamRoad Safety Project (Phase I),Environmental Management Planfor
Engineering Works, OPUS International Consultants and Transport Development
Strategy Institute, Ministry of Transport, Vietnam, November, 2004.
VietnamRoad Safety Project (Phase I),Report on Public Consultation. OPUS
International Consultants andTransport Development Strategy Institute, Ministryof
Transport, Vietnam, January 30,2004.
B.      BankStaffAssessments
Identification Mission, September2002
PreparationMissions, December 2002, June 2003, and December 2003
Project ConceptNote andMinutesof Concept ReviewMeeting, December 2003
Pre-Appraisal Mission, June 2004
Appraisal Mission, December 2004
ProcurementCapacity Assessment, March2005
Financial Management Assessment, March2005




                                             83


                                     Annex 13: Statementof Loans andCredits
                                             VIETNAM: RoadSafetyProject



                                                                                                                 lifference between expectei
                                                                                                                          and actual
                                                              Original Amount in US$ Millions                          disbursements (%)
Project ID  FY   Purpose                                         IBRD           IDA         GEF   Cancel.  Undisb.         Orig  F n Rev'd

  PO82604   2005 HIV/AIDS prevention                                 0           35           0        0       35             0           0

  PO82627   2005 PaymentSystem& Bank Modem.                          0          105           0        0     105              0           0

  PO73763   2005 Water SupplyDevelopment                             0        112.6           0        0    112.6             0           0

  PO74688   2005 RuralEnergyI1                                       0          220           0        0     220            100           0

  PO88362   2005 A~ianInfluanzaEmergencyRecovery                     0            5           0        0      4.6          39.4           0

  PO74414   2005 VN-GEFForestSecctor Development                     0            0           9        0        9           100         100

  PO66051   2005 ForestSector Development                            0         39.5           9        0     39.5           100         100

  PO82759   2004 PRSCIII                                             0          100           0        0        0             0           0

  PO70197   2004 UrbanUpgrading                                      0        222.5           0        0    222.5          -258           0

  PO65898   2004 VIETNAM WATER RESOURCESASSISTANCE                   0        157.8           0        0   154.59                         0

  PO59663   2004 VN-RoadNetwork Improvement                          0      225.26            0        0   230.18          67.1           0

  PO75399   2003 PublicFinancialManagementReformProj.                0        54.33           0        0    59.25          85.4           0

  Po71019   2003 VN-GEF Demand-SideManagement& Energy                0            0          5.5       0       5.5         74.9           0

   PO44803  2003 VN-PRIMARYEDUC FORDISADVANTEGED CHI                 0       138.76            0       0   146.41          67.5           0

   PO59936  2002 VN -NorthemMountainsPovertyReduction                0          110            0       0     90.4            47           0

   PO51838  2002 VN-PRIMARYTEACHER DEVELOPMENT                       0         19.84           0        0   19.67          76.8           0

   PO66396  2002 VN-SYSTEMENERGY,EQUITIZATION& RENE                  0          225            0        0  221.93          79.1           0

   PO72601  2002 VN RuralFinance11Project
                    -                                                0          200            0        0   98.98          -85.2          0

   PO73305  2002 VN-RegionalBloodTranshsionCenters                    0        38.2            0        0   44.16           92.4          0

   PO73778  2002 VN-GEF-SystemEnergyEquitization-Renewa               0           0          4.5        0    4.96           86.3          0

   PO62748  2001 VN COMMUNITY BASEDRURAL INFRA
                    -                                                 0      102.78            0        0   92.63             44          0

   PO52037  2001 VN-HCMC ENVMTL SANIT.                                0      166.34            0        0   170.11            70        63.8

   PO42927  2001 VN-Mekong Transport/FloodProtection                  0          110           0        0   98.56           72.5          0

   PO59864  2000 VN-2nd RuralTransport                                0        103.9           0        0    28.76          22.9           0

   PO42568  2000 VN COASTAL WetVProtDev
                     -                                                0         31.8           0        0    27.05          75.4           0

   PO56452  2000 VN-RURAL ENERGY                                      0          150           0        0    41.25          22.8         9.6

   PO04833   1999 VN-UrbanTransport Improvement                       0         42.7           0     8.19    13.65            46        20.6

   PO04828  1999 VN-HIGHEREDUC.                                       0         83.3           0        0    48.94          49.3        48.3

   PO04845  1999 VN MEKONGDELTA WATER                                 0        101.8           0        0    67.56          60.2           0
                    ~




   PO51553  1999 VN-3 CITIESSANITATION                                0         80.5           0        0    55.65          59.4        22.2

   PO45628   1998 VN-TRANSMISSION& DISTR                              0          199           0        0    99.85          45.3        20.7

   PO04839   1998 VN FORESTPROT.& RUL DE
                    -                                                 0         21.5           0        0    13.87          55.6        29.9

   PO04843  1998 VN-InlandWaterways                                   0           73           0        0    31.79          36.7         6.8

   PO04844   1998 VN-AGRIC. DIVERSIFICATION                           0         66.9           0        0    24.21          32.7        -3.8

   PO04830   1997 VN-WATER SUPPLY                                     0        98.61           0    31.28     7.69             0           0

   PO04838   1996 VN-NATIONAL HEALTH SUPPORT                          0        101.2           0     2.35      19.9         28.5           0

                                                       Total:                  3,542          2a       42    2,666          45%




                                                                   85

                                                     VIETNAM
                                              STATEMENT OF IFCs
                                           Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                             InMillions ofUSDollars

                                                      Committed                           Disbursed
                                                     IFC                                IFC
FY Approval Company                      Loan      Equity    Quasi    Partic. Loan      Equity     Quasi  Partic.
2003        ACB-Vietnam                  0.00         5.02     0.00    0.00      0.00    5.02       0.00   0.00
2002        AZ1AGF Vietnam               0.00         1.32     0.00    0.00      0.00    1.32       0.00   0.00
2002        CyberSoft                    0.00         1.25     0.00    0.00      0.00    1.25       0.00   0.00
2002        Dragon Capital               0.00         0.00     2.00    0.00      0.00    0.00       2.00   0.00
2002        F-V Hospital                 5.00         0.00     3.00    0.00      5.00    0.00       3.00   0.00
2003        GlassEgg                     0.00         1.75     0.00    0.00      0.00    0.63       0.00   0.00
1998        MFL Vinh Phat                0.15         0.00     0.00    0.00      0.15    0.00       0.00   0.00
1997        Nghi Son Cement              14.87        0.00     0.00    9.15     14.87    0.00       0.00   9.15
2001        RMITVietnam                  7.25         0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00       0.00   0.00
1996        SMHGlass Co.                 5.00         0.00     0.00    0.00      5.00    0.00       0.00   0.00
2003104     Sacombank                    0.00         2.31     0.00    0.00      0.00    1.14       0.00   0.00
2002103     VEIL                         0.00         8.00     0.00    0.00      0.00    8.00       0.00   0.00
1996        VILC                         0.00         0.75     0.00    0.00      0.00    0.75       0.00   0.00
                       Total portfolio:  32.27       20.40     5.00    9.15     25.02    18.11      5.00   9.15




                                                                 Approvals PendingCommitment
             FY Approval    Company                          Loan      Equity     Quasi      Partic
             2002           F-V Hospital                   0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00
             2000           Interflour                     0.01         0.00       0.00       0.01
             1999           MFL Chau Giang                 0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00
             1999           MFL MinhMinh                   0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00
             2000           MFL Mondial                    0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00
             2000           MFL-'4.4                       0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00

                                  Total pendingcommitment:    0.01      0.00       0.00       0.01




                                                          86

                                         Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                                        VIETNAM: Road Safety Project




                                                                      East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                  Asia 8     Low-
                                                     Vietnam        Pacific  income           Development diamond'
2003
Population,mid-year (millions)                                81.3    1,855     2,313   I
GNIpercapita (Atlas method, US$)                              480     1,080      450                         Life expectancy

GNI(Atlas method, US$billions)                                30.0     2,011    1,038

Average annual growth, 1997-03
Population PA)                                                 1.2       10       1.9     ,,
Lab0rforce PA)                                                 16         11      2.3         GNi

M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1997-03)
Poverty(%ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)                 29
Urbanpopulation (%oftotalpopulation)                           26        40       30
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                                 70        69       58
Infant mortality (per 1000livebirths)                          20        32       82
Childmalnutrition(%of childrenunder5)                          30         5       44      1       Access to improvedwatersource
Access to an improved water source (%ofpopulation)             77        76       75
Illiteracy(%ofpopulation age a+)                               4.6        13      39
Gross primaryenroliment (%ofschool-age population)             115        111     92      I        -Vietnam
   Male                                                        Il7       1P       99                          Low-income group
                                                                                                      ~
   Female                                                      It3        111     85

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                               1983          1993    2002      2003
                                                                                               Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                            0.2       35.1     39.2
Gross domestic investment/GDP                                 24.3      32.1     35.1
Exports of goods and services/GDP                             28.7     55.5      59.6                             Trade

Gross domestic savings/GDP                                     15.5     28.1     27.1
Gross national savings/GDP                                     0.2     33.5      32.6

Current account balanceiGDP                                   -7.0      -10      -4.7
interest paynentslGDP                                          0.4       0.8      0.9
Total debt/GDP                                                183.4     38.1     37.8
Total debt servicdexports                                      110       5.5       5.1
Present valueof debt/GDP
Present value of debt/exports                                                                                   Indebtedness
                                     1983-93 1993-03         2002    2003 2003-07
(average annualgmwfh)                                                                                  -Vietnam
GDP                                       5.6     7.2          7.0       7.2      7.5
                                                                                                           ~     Low-income group
GDP oercaoita                             3.2     5.7          5.8       6.1      6.4


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                               1983          1993     2002      2003         I Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(%of GDP)                                                                                    I
Agriculture                                                   29.9     23.0       218
Industry                                                      28.9     30.5      40.0
   Manufacturing                                               15.2    20.6      20.8
Services                                            ........  412      38.5      38.2
                                                                                             -
                                                                                             I O 4                                        I
Privateconsumption                                  ..        77.2     65.7      66.0                  98      99     00    01  02      03
Generalgovernment consumption                                  7.3       6.2      6.9
imports of goods and services                       ..        37.5     59.6      67.6                       -GDI          -GDP


                                             1983-93 1993-03          2002      2003      1   Growth of exports and imports        ( O h )
(average annualgrowfh)
Agriculture                                       3.3          4.2       4.1      3.2
industry                                          5.8          13.8      9.4      11.2
   Manufacturing                                  2.7          11.4      116      t3.0
Services                                          8.1          6.2       6.5      5.0

Privateconsumption                                              5.1      7.6       7.4
General government consumption                                 3.6       5.4      6.2       I          98      a9     00    01  02
Gross domestic investment                                      It7      13.6      E 2                  -Exports           1-0-I~~ports
imports of goods andservices                        ....      20.6      22.2     27.8

                                                                                                                   Vietnam

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1983   1993     2002     2003        i Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                                                                I
(%change)                                                                      10-
Consumer prices                                     8.4     4.0       3.0       5
Implicit GDP deflator                              17.4     4.O       5.4

Government finance                                                              0

(%of GDP,includes current grants)                                                -
Current revenue                                                                                                          -
                                                  21.7     22.0      22.9     I.5       98     99     00      01     02      03
Current budget balance                              2.2     6.2       6.2
Overall surplusldeficit                                     -1.9     -2.2               -GDPdeflator         -CPI


TRADE
                                         1983   I993     2002     2003
(US$ millions)                                                                   Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                              2,850   6.706    20,76        30 000 T
 Rice                                             363       726       721
 Fuel                                             844    3,270     3,821
 Manufactures                                             8,415    11,200
Total imports (cif)                              4,299   29,733   25,227
 Food                                               84
 Fueland energy                                   650     2,ov     2,433
                                                                                                                               I
 Capital goods                                    1,441  5.880     7,500

Export price index(995zX)O)                                                             97    98   Q9    00    01    02    03

import price index(995=X)O)                                                                    Exports       oinports
Terms of trade (W95=X)O)

BALANCE o f PAYMENTS
                                         1983    1993    2002      2003
(US$ millions)                                                                   Current account balance to GDP (%)

Exports ofgoods and services                     3,757   8,656    23,360
Importsof goods andservices                       4,299  21,79    26,490
Resource balance                          -682    -442   -1,523    -3,130

Net income                                 -73    -556      -741     -880
Net current transfers                      25       70    1,896     2,157

Current account balance                   -730    -928     -368    -1,853

Financing items (net)                      556     524      832    3,753
Changes innet reserves                     174     404     -464    -1,900             97    98    Q9   00     01   02      03

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)            1.0 0,641.0 15,279.5  15,463.0


EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1983    1993    2002      2003
(US$ millions)                                                                 i Composition o f 2003 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding anddisbursed         53  24.68    13,349    14,794
                                                                               i
  IBRD                                      0         0        0        0
  IDA                                                                                            G 786
                                            44      57     1.715    2,142
                                                                                         1,421   ,            B 2,%2

Total debt service                                  4l7    I097      1,205
  IBRD                                                0        0        0
  IDA                                                 1       13        13

Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                                   145     242       245
  Official creditors                               -140     680      1.798
  Privatecreditors                                  -37    -649      -638
  Foreigndirect investment                         926      1,130    1,200
  Portfolio equity                                    0        0        0       I          E:8,716
World Bank program
  Commitments                                0     229      463        518       A - IBRD                        E - Bilateral
  Disburgements                              9        0      261      574        8-IDA      D-Othermrltilateral  F-Private
  Principal repayments                       0        1        2         2       C-IMF                           G-Short-term

MAP SECTION


                         102                                          104                                                106                                                  108                                            110

                                              To                         To
                                           Kaiyuan,                   Kaiyuan,
                                           Kunming           To                                                                                                               C H I N A
                                                          Kunming      Kunming

                                                                                                   4C

                                                                                               4


                                                                                                H
                                                                                                Giang                     5
                                                                                                          34
                                                                                                                                   Cao Bang`

                                              100
                                                                                            2
                                                         Lo Cai                                                 279
                                                                                   279
                                                              4D     4E
                                                                                                                                       4A                       To
                                               1                   3                                                                                         Nanning
                                                                                                                 9                                                                      To
         22                                   Lai                                                  8                    `
                                                                           Hong                                         Bac Kan
                                                                                                                                                                                    Qinzhou,                                          22
                                              Chu                                                                              279
                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                (Red)                                                                                                Nanning
                                                                                        70            Tuyn                                        Lang ,
                                            12                                                        Quang                  1B                     Son
                                                                            32                                     13                        1
                                                           Da                                                          Thai
                                                        279                                                            Nguyen                      10
                                              2              (Black)               Yn Bi                    37
                                                                                  7
                                                                                                          2C
                                                                                                                                                                 18C
                                                                                                32C            2B                                      31                18
                                                                                                          12                                                 4B                       Co To
                                           Din Bin Ph                                      Vit Tr    Vinh Yen                  37
                                                                                                                                              14                                   Vinh Thuc
                                                        Son La                           32B                                     Bc Giang
                                                                                                11                  16                                                      Cai Chien
                                                                              37                        32                    Bc                  279     15   18
                                                             6                                                     23                                                  Cai Bau
                                                                    4G                                                        Ninh183       18
                              To                                                      43                        LHL          3817     20
                                                                              6                                                                               Ha Long           Co To
                             Muang                                                                                                         5
                                                                                                       H Dng
                              Xai                                                             Ha Bnh                 HANOIHa
                                                                                                                    21B
                                                                                  43                               18        19  Dong         Hai Phong
                                                                                                                                            21            Cat Ba
                                                                                                                 21 Hung Yen          10
                                                                                                         22   H Nam                                             Halong
                                                                                                                           23
                                                                                                                                        39
                                                                                                                                        24
                                                                                                15       12B
                                                                                                  Ma                                  Thi Bnh                     Bay
                                                                                                                               Nam
                                                         To Luang                                                              Dinh
                                                          Prabang                          217                Ninh Bnh
                                                                                                                                  26  21
                                                                                                                           25 10
         20                                                                                                                                                                   Bach Long Vi                                           20
                                                                                                       27

                                                                                                                47                          CORRIDOR 1

                                                  To Xiang Khoang,                                                      Thanh Hoa
                                                   Luang Prabang
                                                                                                 48


                                                                                                                          Me                                        G u l f
                        LAO PEOPLE'S                                                            28                  1   Nghi Son
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Hainan I.
                                                                                       7  Ca
               DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                     o f                                                (China)


                                                                                                          15

                                                                                                                46   Vinh
                                                                                                                     8B                                         To n k i n
                                                                                                        8

                                                                                                            29            H Tinh~


                                                                                           To
         18                                                                          Khammouan                                                                                                                                       18

                                                                            Mekong                                               12A




                                                                                                                                                Dng Hoi
                                                                                                                                      30

                                                                                                                 To Xe Po                     15

                                                                                                                                                      1              Con Co


                                                                                                                                                              Dng H
                                                                                                                                                      9
                                                                                                                                                          31
                                                                                                                                                                        49B
                                                                                                                                   To Xe Po,                              Hu
                                                                                                                                  Savannakhet            14

                                                                                                                                                                       49
                                                                                                                                                                         32


                                                                                                                                                                                      33

         16                                                                                                                                                                                  D Nang                                 16
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Cham
                              T H A I L A N D                                                                                                                                        14B



                                                                                                                                                                          14D
                                                                                                                                                       To Pakse                     34    14E        Tam Ky

                      102                                                                                                                                                                                            Ly Son
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Re
                                                                                                                                                                                                                24B

                                                                                                                                                                                                              Qung Ngai
                                                                                                                                                                                 14
                                                                                                                                                                                                       35
                                      V I E T N A M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1

                                                                                                                                                                             40      36
              ROAD SAFETY PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                 24


                                                                                                                                                                                        Kon Tum

                                                                                                                                                                                                               38


                                       DEMONSTRATION CORRIDORS                                                                                                                           Play Cu
                                                                                                            14                                                                                          19                          14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Quy Nhon
                                                                                                                                                                                   19          37


                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Xanh
                        PROTECTED AREAS                        AIRPORTS

                                                                                                                                                                                                    25

                30      NATIONAL ROADS                         PORTS                                                                                                                                  Da Rang         39
                                                                                                                                                                                              14
                        RAILROADS                              PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                             Tuy Ha
                                                                                                                                                                             14C

                        RIVERS                                 NATIONAL CAPITAL                                  C A M B O D I A                                                             40

                                                                                                                                                                                 Bun Ma                   26
                                                               PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                 Thut

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Gom
                                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   42

                                                                                                                                      To Kratie                                   41                                       1CNha Trang
                                                                                                                                                                                             27                               Tre

                                                                                                                                                                                   Gia Nghia
                                                                                                                 To Kompong                                                                    D Lat                                12
          PROVINCES:                                   12
                                                                                                                     Cham                                                                             20           27B
                                                                                                                                                         43         14                                             45
          1 Lai Chau           33 Da Nang                                                                                                           Dng                                     44                 27

          2 Dien Bien          34 Quang Nam                                                                                                          Xoi
                                                                                                                                                  13
          3 Lao Cai            35 Quang Ngai                                                                                                                                                                           Phan Rang-
                                                                                                                                                                                           28                          Thp Chm
          4 Ha Giang           36 Kon Tum                                                           Mekong                     22B 46                                         20

          5 Cao Bang           37 Gia Lai                                                                                                                          48
                                                                                                                              Ty Ninh               47
          6 Son La             38 Binh Dinh                                                                                                          Thu Du
                                                                                                                                                                                       49
          7 Yen Bai            39 Phu Yen                                                                                                            Mt
                                                                                                                                              22
          8 Tu Yen Quang       40 Dac Lac                                                                                                         50
                                                                                                                                                                                1             Phan Thit
          9 Bac Can            41 Dac Nong                                                                                                                 Bin Ha
                                                                           To
          10 Lang Son          42 Khanh Hoa                             Kampong                                                         52           Ho Chi         56
                                                                                                             30    54                          1     Minh     51                 55
          11 Phu Tho           43 Binh Phuoc                              Som                                                       62             50                 51

                                                                                                      56             Cao Lanh                                                                             Phu Quy
          12 Vinh Phuc         44 Lam Dong                                                                                          53        Tan AnCity                            CORRIDOR 2
                                                                                                Long Xuyn
          13 Thai Nguyen       45 Ning Thuan
                                                                                                                      80   Vinh Long
                                                                                                                            ~                My~, Tho
          14 Bac Giang         46 Tay Ninh                                                                                                60                    Vug Tu
                                                             Phu                                                                      57      Bn Tre
                                                                                              80                      54
          15 Quang Ninh        47 Binh Duong                                                                      91
                                                           Quoc            Nghe                           80                                                    CORRIDOR 3
                                                                                                              60              57  53            55
         10
          16 Ha Noi            48 Dong Nai             10                               Rach Gi                  Cn                                                                                                               10
                                                                                                                   Tho'                                                                                               Hai
                                                                                                                               54
          17 Bac Ninh          49 Binh Thuan                                             Tre             59                           60    Tr Vinh
                                                                                                                       61
          18 Ha Tay          Gulf
                               50 T.P. Ho Chi Minh                                 Rai                      61 Vi Thanh    1
                                                                                                                                         58   53    MEKONG DELTA
          19 Hung Yen          51 Ba Ria-Vung Tau                                                                               60
                                                                      Nam Du
                                                                                                                          62
          20 Hai Duong         52 Long An                                                              63                       Sc Trang
                                                                                                                          1
          21 Hai Phong         53 Tien Giang                                                                                                                             0      25   50    75   100 125 150 KILOMETERS
                                                                                                               63
          22 Hoa Binh         of
                               54 Dong Thap             Tho Chu
          23 Ha Nam            55 Ben Tre                                                                                Bac Liu

          24 Thai Binh         56 An Giang                                                            C Mau                                                             0           25         50         75         100 MILES

          25 Ninh Binh         57 Vinh Long                                                        1
                                                                                                     64

          26 Nam Dinh    Thailand
                               58 Tra Vinh
                                                                                                                                                             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
          27 Thanh Hoa         59 Kien Giang                                                                                           Con Dau
                                                                                                                                                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
          28 Nghe An           60 Can Tho                                                                                                                    on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any           IBRD
MA        29 Ha Tinh           61 Hau Giang                                                                                                                  judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
          30 Quang Binh        62 Soc Trang                                                     Khoai
  Y                                                                                                                                                          acceptance of such boundaries.                                                   33693
   2005   31 Quang Tri         63 Bac Lieu
          32 Thua Thien102
                        Hue
                              64 Ca Mau                               104                                                  106                                                      108                                           110

