                           62987 v1
           Document of
        The World Bank


                                      Report No:




     RESTRUCTURING PAPER

             ON A

PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING

            OF THE

 VIETNAM ROAD SAFETY PROJECT

          JUNE 7, 2005


            TO THE

 SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM


   {DATE OF RESTRUCTURING}
                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


NRADS   National Road Accident Database System




           Regional Vice President:        James W. Adams
                  Country Director:        Victoria Kwakwa
          Sector Manager / Director:       Jennifer J. Sara/ John Roome
                 Task Team Leader:         Van Anh Thi Tran



                                       2
                           VIETNAM
                      ROAD SAFETY PROJECT
                            P085080
                          CONTENTS

                                            Page
EXTENSION OF CLOSING DATE




                               3
                 VIETNAM — ROAD SAFETY PROJECT (P085080)
                           CREDIT NO. 4073-VN


                         Extension of Closing Date


1.     The closing date for Vietnam Road Safety Project [Credit No.4073-VN] will be
extended one year and a half from June 30, 2011 until December 31, 2012.

2.      As the world’s first stand-alone, second generation road safety intervention, initial
project outcomes indicate that the development objective is being met, as evidenced by:
(i) a 36 percent reduction in the number of fatalities (per 100 million vehicle/km) and a
75 percent reduction in accidents (per 100 million vehicle/km) on project road corridors
in 2010; (ii) improvement in compliance with vehicle and licensing standards, with 97
percent of motorcyclists having been issued a valid license on project road corridors; (iii)
a draft outline for the national road safety strategy; and (iv) finalization of technical
specifications for the National Road Accident Database System (NRADS).

3.       The proposed extension results from initial procurement delays of over two years
in the recruitment of the lead consulting service responsible for overall implementation
coordination. Over the last 18 months project implementation has closely followed an
agreed detailed implementation schedule that acknowledged a target completion date of
June 2012. However, the first Credit closing date extension to June 2011 was approved
on the basis that consideration of any further extension would be contingent on
satisfactory progress in implementing the agreed schedule through June 2011. Apart from
a minor slippage in one component, steady progress has been consistent with the agreed
schedules and action plans over the last three years. The proposed extension allows for
the conclusion of several on-going training activities and, most significantly, completion
of substantial packages critical to the full achievement of the project development
objectives by ensuring sufficient time for: (i) the acquisition of goods and related user
training for rollout of the NRADS; (ii) the supply and installation of Traffic Camera
equipment for the pilot enforcement program and related monitoring and evaluation
activities; and (iii) planned media awareness campaigns.

4.     The executing agency has prepared a detailed implementation plan for the
remaining activities to project completion, this has been reviewed by the task team and
found to be reasonable based on recent implementation progress.

5.    This will be the second extension of the project, for a total extension period of 36
months from the original closing date.




                                             4
