                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00002553



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-40730)



                                        ON A

                                       CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21.0 MILLION
                      (US$ 31.73 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                     SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                       FOR A

                           ROAD SAFETY PROJECT



                                 JUNE 15, 2013




Vietnam Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective February 28, 2013)

          Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong (VND)
                 VND 1.00 = US$ 0.000048
                  US$ 1.00 = VND 20,806

                      FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1 – December 31

 ADB         Asian Development Bank
 CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CPGRS        Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy
 DCA         Development Credit Agreement
   DP        Displaced person
DRVN         Directorate for Roads of Vietnam
EMDP         Ethnic Minority Development Plan
 EMP         Environmental Management Plan
 ERR         Economic Rate of Return
 GOV         Government of Vietnam
  ICB        International Competitive Bidding
  IDA        International Development Association
 IFRs        Interim Financial Reports
 JBIC        Japan Bank for International Cooperation
 JICA        Japan International Cooperation Agency
 M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MOET         Ministry of Education and Training
 MOH         Ministry of Health
MOPS         Ministry of Public Security
 MOT         Ministry of Transport
 MTR         Mid-Term Review
 NCB         National Competitive Bidding
 NPTS        National Program for Traffic Safety
NRADS        National Road Accident Database System
 NTSC        National Traffic Safety Committee
   PIP       Project Implementation Plan
 PMU         Project Management Unit
 QCBS        Quality Cost Based Selection
 RAP         Resettlement Action Plan
TSPMU        Traffic Safety Project Management Unit
 TSSR        Transport Safety Strategy Review
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
 VRA         Vietnam Road Administration
 VRSP        Vietnam Road Safety Project
Regional Vice President:   Axel Van Trotsenburg, EAPVP
      Country Director:    Victoria Kwakwa, EACVF
        Sector Director:   John Roome, EASSD
       Sector Manager:     Jennifer Sara, EASVS
     Task Team Leader:     Van Anh Thi Tran, EASIN
     ICR Team Leader:      Reda Hamedoun, EASIN
                              SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
                                  Vietnam Road Safety Project



                                                   CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information……………………………………………………………………..…. . i
    B. Key Dates…………………………………………………………………………...……...i
    C. Ratings Summary…………………………………………………………………………..i
    D. Sector and Theme Codes…………………………………………………………………..ii
    E. Bank Staff………………………………………………………………………………….ii
    F. Results Framework Analysis……………………………………………………………….ii
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs…………………………………………………..vi
    H. Restructuring………………………………...……………………………………………vi
    I. Disbursement Graph……………………………………………………………..……….vii

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 18
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 20
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 21
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 22
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 23
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 29
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 31
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 32
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 33
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 37
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 38
 MAP…………………………………………………………………………………...39
A. Basic Information
Country:                Vietnam                 Project Name:             Road Safety Project
Project ID:             P085080                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-40730
ICR Date:               10/08/2012              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          MINISTRY OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          TRANSPORT
Original Total
                        SDR 21.00M              Disbursed Amount:         SDR 15.82M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         SDR 16.50M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: National Traffic Safety Committee
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       12/17/2003     Effectiveness:          03/09/2006           03/09/2006
                                                                                12/16/2009 and
                                                                                  06/20/2011
Appraisal:            12/13/2004     Restructuring(s):          NA
                                                                                 (closing date
                                                                                  extensions)
Approval:             06/07/2005     Mid-term Review:        02/23/2009           03/06/2009
                                     Closing:                12/31/2009           12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:


                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      57                  60
General education sector                                                4                      5
Health                                                                  5                      5
Other social services                                                  12                      9
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                               22                  21


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Injuries and non-communicable diseases                                 67                  64
Other social development                                               33                  36

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Axel von Trotsenburg                  Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          Victoria Kwakwa                       Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager:            Jennifer Sara                         Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project Team Leader:       Van Anh Thi Tran                      Jerry A. Lebo
ICR Team Leader:           Reda Hamedoun


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective is to reduce the rate of accidents, injury and death
associated with road transport through physical improvement and institutional
development to strengthen the management of road transport safety.




                                                ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                          Original Target Formally      Actual Value
                                          Values (from     Revised      Achieved at
Indicator       Baseline Value
                                          approval         Target       Completion or
                                          documents)       Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 : Accident rates per 100 million vehicle-km in project corridors.
Value
quantitative or 39                        29                            25
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                  09/30/2012                    03/31/2012
Comments        Achieved. The original target was a 26% reduction from the baseline, and
(incl. %        the actual target achieved a 36% reduction. The outcome was then
achievement) achieved at 138%1.
Indicator 2 : Injury rate per 100 million vehicle-km in project corridors.
Value
quantitative or 130                       62                            107.1
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                  12/31/2012                    09/30/2012
Comments        Partially achieved. The original target was a 52% reduction from the
(incl. %        baseline, and the actual target achieved a18% reduction. The outcome was
achievement) then partially achieved at 34%. 2
Indicator 3 : Fatality rate per 100 million vehicle-km in project corridors.
Value
quantitative or 13                        6                             5.1
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                  12/31/2012                    09/30/2012
Comments        Achieved. The original target was a 54% reduction from the baseline, and
(incl. %        the actual target achieved a 61% reduction. The outcome was then
achievement) achieved at 113%.3




1
  Original baseline for accidents was estimated based on the nationwide ratio of reported accidents by the
Police to reported fatalities. Using a different methodology, the M&E consultant set a baseline of 8.5 per
100m-vkt, based on data collected in 2009, and an end value of 5.4. For the purpose of this ICR, the M&E
end value was converted into the actual end value used above to take into account the methodology used
for the PAD and end up with numbers comparable with the baseline.

2
  Original baseline for injuries were estimated at ten times the number of fatalities based on experience in
developed countries and included all types of injuries, even slight injuries. Using a different methodology
(including serious injuries only), the actual data was 2.8 severe injuries per 100m-vkt in 2009, and
collected an end value of 2.5. For the purpose of this ICR, this end value was converted into the actual end
value used above to take into account the methodology used for the PAD.


                                                    iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                       Original Target Formally        Actual Value
                                       Values (from       Revised      Achieved at
Indicator       Baseline Value
                                       approval           Target       Completion or
                                       documents)         Values       Target Years
                Performance-based national road safety strategy (phase 2), including
Indicator 1 :
                financing plan, developed and approved by Government.
                                       Final strategy
Value
                                       document                        Approved by the
quantitative or N/A
                                       approved by                     Government
Qualitative)
                                       Government
Date achieved 12/31/2004               09/30/2012                      03/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        This document is more of an overarching policy paper on road safety.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Traffic exceeding posted speed limits (%), reduced
Value                                  No target
quantitative or 30                     established in the              18
Qualitative)                           PAD
Date achieved 12/31/2004               12/31/2012                      09/30/2012
Comments        40% reduction from the baseline. The original baseline was
(incl. %        underestimated during project preparation. A new baseline of 64% was
achievement) estimated by the B8.1 consultant in April 2011.
Indicator 3 : Motor cycle riders wearing helmets (%), improved
Value                                  No target
quantitative or 25                     established in the              93
Qualitative)                           PAD
Date achieved 01/01/2004               12/31/2012                      09/30/2012
                272% increase from the baseline. The Helmet Law mandated in 2007
Comments
                constituted a major step in addressing safety and awareness issues and
(incl. %
                reflected the growing importance of road safety issues in the national
achievement)
                dialogue.
Indicator 4 : % of motorcycle drivers licensed, improved
Value                                  No target
quantitative or 73                     established in the              93
Qualitative)                           PAD



3
 Using a different methodology than the one used during preparation, the actual data was 8.8 fatalities per
100m-vkt in 2009, and collected an end value of 5.1. For the purpose of this ICR, the end value was
converted into the actual end value used above to take into account the methodology used for the PAD.


                                                    iv
Date achieved 12/31/2008               06/30/2012                       09/30/2012
Comments
                27% increase from the revised baseline. The original baseline value (95%)
(incl. %
                was overestimated and revised in December 2008.
achievement)
Indicator 5 : % of commercial vehicle operator licensed, improved
Value                                  No target
quantitative or 95                     established in the               97
Qualitative)                           PAD
Date achieved 12/31/2004               06/30/2012                       09/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        2% increase from the baseline.
achievement)
                % of vehicles in demonstration corridors passing first time inspection,
Indicator 6 :
                improved
Value                                  No target
quantitative or 90                     established in the               75.5
Qualitative)                           PAD
Date achieved 11/31/2004               06/30/2012                       03/31/2012
Comments
                16% decrease from the baseline. The change is likely due to the
(incl. %
                enforcement of more stringent vehicle testing standards
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Percentage of NRADS completed
Value
quantitative or 0                      100                              95
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2004               06/30/2012                       09/30/2012
Comments
                Achieved. The equipment has been installed, and testing/training has been
(incl. %
                completed.
achievement)
                Number of biannual road safety reports prepared in accordance with
Indicator 8 :
                project monitoring and evaluation guidelines
Value
quantitative or 0                      7                                7
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2004               06/30/2012                       09/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved.
achievement)
                Number of annual reports on effectiveness of treatments and
Indicator 9 : interventions prepared in accordance with project monitoring and
                evaluation guidelines
Value
quantitative or 0                      4                                3
Qualitative)

                                           v
Date achieved 11/31/2004             06/30/2012                                  03/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %      Partially achieved (75%).
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
            Date ISR
No.                              DO                              IP              Disbursements
            Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
    1      01/05/2006        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
    2      02/26/2007        Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory              1.56
                                                            Moderately
    3      05/17/2008   Moderately Satisfactory                                               2.42
                                                          Unsatisfactory
                                                            Moderately
    4      06/16/2008   Moderately Satisfactory                                               2.42
                                                          Unsatisfactory
                                                            Moderately
    5      01/06/2009   Moderately Satisfactory                                               3.00
                                                          Unsatisfactory
                                                            Moderately
    6      09/15/2009   Moderately Satisfactory                                               3.37
                                                          Unsatisfactory
    7      01/05/2010   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             4.99
    8      02/16/2011   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            10.56
    9      12/24/2011       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory            15.50
    10     12/11/2012   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            20.86


H. Restructuring (if any)

       Extension to the Development Credit Agreement Closing Date (December 16, 2009)
        for 18 months

       Second extension to the Development Credit Agreement Closing Date (June 29,
        2011) for 18 months




                                                  vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector background at appraisal

At the time of project preparation, rapid economic growth was accompanied by rapid
traffic growth. From 1990 to 2004, the number of automobiles had increased 2.5 times
and the number of motorcycles had increased more than 8 times. Over 90 percent of the
11-12 million motorized vehicles in Vietnam in 2004 were motorcycles. Yet in
comparison to those of other Asian countries, motorization levels in Vietnam were still
low, indicating that vehicle ownership would continue to increase with economic growth.

Road fatalities had increased 39 percent in 2000/2001 and 22 percent in 2001/2002.
Vietnam had a reported fatality rate of about 12 per 10,000 vehicles and an accident rate of
about 20 per 10,000 vehicles in 2004. These rates were below those of China (about 25-30
fatalities per 10,000 vehicles), but higher than those of Thailand and Malaysia or found in
OECD countries (in the range of 1-2 fatalities per 10,000 vehicles). In Vietnam, as in
many other countries, under-reporting of accidents and fatalities was significant. The
Vietnam Multi-Center Injury Survey of 27,000 households estimated that there were
900,000 road traffic accidents involving injury in 2001, in comparison to reported
accidents of 25,000. Similarly, road-related fatalities were estimated to be underreported
by about 30 percent.

Government Strategy

The Government of Vietnam (GOV), at the highest levels and across sectors, was
considering improving road safety a high priority. Vietnam’s 2002-2010 National Policy
on Accident and Injury Prevention noted that injuries related to road accidents were not
just a transport sector issue, but a leading factor in a wider national injury crisis. The
Government strategy was spelled out in the National Program for Traffic Safety (NPTS),
which covered the 2001-2005 periods. The NPTS called for policy and physical
interventions funded by government budgets, driver training and licensing fees, insurance,
as well as official development assistance. Its activities included (i) education and
publicity campaigns, (ii) road safety audits, (iii) identification and treatment of blackspots,
(iv) development of a traffic accident reporting and analysis database, (v) improvement in
the driver training and licensing system, (vi) creation of first-aid stations, and (vii)
modernization of the motor vehicle registration and inspection system.

The National Traffic Safety Committee (NTSC) was already responsible for
coordinating the delivery of NPTS activities and reporting on progress. It had a
secretariat (Executive Office) in MOT. Eleven ministries were represented on the NTSC at
the deputy minister or vice minister level. National government funding for NTSC and
road safety activities carried out by line ministries came from traffic fine receipts. The
majority (60 percent) of these funds was going directly to the Road and Rail Traffic Police
Administration (RRTPA) under the Ministry of Public Security, while other road safety
activities and NTSC received 35 percent. The remainder was used for general budget
support. Local funding for traffic safety activities also came from fines, with the bulk
allocated to traffic police, traffic inspection, and local police departments (52 percent).
The remainder was used to fund vehicle inspection centers, local traffic safety departments,



                                              1
and local government road safety activities. The overall level of funding for road safety in
2003 was about US$45 million, split equally between local and national expenditure.

Rationale for Bank Assistance

The World Bank partnered with the World Health Organization in 2004 to produce the
World Report on Road Traffic Injury Prevention, demonstrating both organizations’
recognition of road safety as a major world health issue. The Bank, due to this
experience and commitment, and its substantial engagement in the road sector in Vietnam
since 1994, was well positioned to work with GOV on road safety. The design of the
project also took into consideration the findings of the Transport Safety Strategy Review
(TSSR) and was consistent in size and scope with objectives described in the 2004 CAS
Progress Report for Vietnam (2004).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project development objective was to reduce the rate of accidents, injury and death
associated with road transport through physical improvement and institutional
development to strengthen the management of road transport safety.

The key performance indicators were:

   Rates of accident, injury, and death on project road corridors reduced;
   Development and government approval of a national road safety strategy specifying
    achievable performance targets and a financing plan;
   Driver behavior and compliance with vehicle and licensing standards on project road
    corridors improved; and
   Monitoring and evaluation framework implemented in project corridors and used to
    prioritize road safety interventions, and national road accident database system
    (NRADS) established and updated regularly.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main beneficiaries of VRSP include road users, roadside communities, and
businesses in the three demonstration corridors. The main direct benefits of the project
come from the reductions in social costs resulting from the reduced numbers and severity
of fatalities and injuries caused by road accidents. These benefits include (i) the reduction
in the incidence and severity of road accident injury and death and the associated cost to
individuals and the Vietnamese economy, (ii) the reduction in the public resources wasted
by road accidents, including the temporary or permanent loss and diversion of human
resources, the consumption of medical resources, and the damage or destruction of
property, and (iii) the improved efficiency of road transport due to the reduced economic
inefficiencies resulting from road accident trauma.

Beneficiaries also included government agencies engaged in coordinating road safety,
as well as the institutions (NTSC, MOT, MOH, MOET, MOPS) that benefited from the
implementation support activities and trainings. The benefits include the cost savings


                                             2
from greater effectiveness of road safety interventions, which stemmed from the increased
institutional capacity to monitor, evaluate, and manage road safety and collect data at both
the national and road network levels. Benefits extended to populations in the whole
country through the nationwide awareness campaigns, vehicle inspections, driving
licensing and enforcement.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

This US$31.7 million project financed by IDA consisted of three components to be
implemented over the 2005-2009 period: (a) The Institutional and Capacity Building
Program, (b) The Road Safety Demonstration and Awareness Program, and (c) Road
Safety Monitoring and Evaluation Program.

Component A - Institutional and capacity building program (US$7.84 million) to
provide technical assistance and project implementation support to strengthen the
management and technical capacity of the NTSC Executive Office, the Traffic Safety
Project Management Unit (TS PMU), the sub-PMUs, and corridor supervision teams. This
component was also to support the preparation of a performance based national road safety
strategy, including a financing plan.

Component B. Road safety demonstration and awareness program (US$20.89 million)
to develop and implement comprehensive, integrated safety programs along three high-
risk national road corridors. The three demonstration corridors identified for inclusion
under the project were: (i)National Highway 1 between Hanoi and Vinh (281 km); ( ii)
National Highway 1 between Ho Chi Minh City and Can Tho City (1 5 1 km); and (3)
Highway 51 from Dong Nai province to Vung Tau (80 km). This component had 12
subcomponents.

The component also supported: (i) the Vietnam Register in upgrading its national vehicle
inspection system, computer and communications equipment, software development, and
vehicle inspection equipment, including specialized vehicle inspection equipment at three
primary national vehicle inspection stations (Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City, and Vinh Long).;
(ii) Vietnam Road Administration VRA with equipment to improve the driver training
centers at Chi Linh and in Dong Nai province and related facilities;.(iii) consulting
services for VRA to conduct road safety audits and blackspot or black route identification
and treatment; (iv) the Traffic Police through the provision of vehicles and equipment to
implement a general-deterrence road safety enforcement program in the three
demonstration corridors; (v) a program of road user education (MOET) and public
awareness (NTSC) in the three demonstration corridors, using targeted social marketing
techniques; (vi) Ministry of Education and Training with the provision of school road safety
education materials, equipment, and associated training for a program of primary,
secondary, and tertiary road safety education in the three demonstration corridors; (vii)
Ministry of Health by providing materials, equipment, and training for an emergency
medical services program in the three demonstration corridors; (viii) and operating costs
and local consulting services.

Component C. Road Safety Monitoring and Evaluation Program (US$6.20 million), to
support the development of the National Road Accident Database System (NRADS) and a
comprehensive program of project corridor monitoring and evaluation.




                                             3
1.6 Revised Components

   B1: Some blackspots on Highway 51 and NH1 were removed under other projects
    (Highway 51 upgrading and NH1 widening).
   B5: Purchase of driving license printing system in lieu of equipment in the Dong Nai
    driver training center
   B7: Purchase of a camera system in lieu of cars and equipment from the police
   B4.3: Cancellation of subcomponent B4.3after agreement with GOV that equipment
    for vehicle inspection centers would be provided through GOV funding
   B8,2: Reduction in the scope of work in education and awareness raising program
    under B8.2. Instead of broad based awareness programs, these programs were
    redesigned to address specific target groups with specific themes.
   Reduction in overseas training under A4.2 reducing the training cost from US$552k to
    US$270k.


1.7 Other significant changes

Extension of Closing Dates: The closing date was extended twice: (i) from December 31,
2009 to June 30, 2011 to address the priority time-bound action plan to accelerate
implementation that was set during the midterm review mission; and (ii) for 18 months
from June 30, 2011 to December 31, 2012 to allow for the conclusion of several on-going
training activities and completion of substantial packages critical to the full achievement
of the project development objectives.

Credit Cancellation. Approximately US$6.9 million equivalent would remain unspent
from the credit, due to (i) overlap with other projects and the reduction of number of
blackspots treated under the project, (ii) contingencies amounting to approximately
US$1.3 million would not be required, (iii) close management of consultants generating
saving of up to US$ 1 million and (iv) exchange rate gains between SDR and USD by
about US$1.2 million.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry


Project preparation and design were heavily based on a Transport Safety Strategy
Review (TSSR) that the Bank conducted in 2003. This TSSR assessed government
programs and approaches to road safety and set out short to long term strategies to address
deteriorating road safety in Vietnam. In June 2003, the Bank and GOV discussed the
findings of the TSSR and the main issues in the sector and agreed that a road safety
initiative intervention should target the following issues:

   Capacity and accountability. Institutionally, the most pressing need in road safety
    was to strengthen the capacity, resources, and skills of the agencies responsible for
    delivering the government’s program, including NTSC. The legal framework at the
    time focused on NTSC’s role in coordination, leaving the responsibility for
    implementation with central government agencies, other relevant organizations, and
    provincial and municipal People’s Committees. The team concluded that this limited
    accountability for overall outcomes and makes coordination difficult. Component A of
    VRSP, with its focus on management and operating costs support to NTSC, technical

                                             4
    assistance to sub-PMU teams, training and the funding of a performance-based road
    safety national strategy, aimed at correcting this.

   Knowledge and awareness of road safety. International experience suggested that
    projects emphasizing traffic management functions (driver licensing, vehicle
    inspection/registration…), only had marginal impact on accident and fatality rates in
    the short term. To rapidly curb accident and fatality rates, international experience
    suggested that targeted, cost-effective measures such as speed-limit and drunk-driving
    enforcement, separation of traffic, and motorcycle helmet law enforcement, were more
    effective. This had to be accompanied by measures to raise public awareness of the
    importance compliance with road safety laws, in a country where drunk-driving posed
    a bigger traffic safety problem than was acknowledged, and where laws requiring
    motorcycle helmets were seen by the public as ineffective. Component B, with its
    focus on road user awareness, road safety education in schools and vehicle registration
    and driver testing, targeted precisely this issue.

The project design also took into consideration the conclusions of the World Report on
Road Traffic Injury prevention. The report recommended to (i) make road safety a
political priority, (ii) appoint a lead agency for road safety, give it adequate resources, and
make it publicly accountable, (iii) develop a multidisciplinary approach to road safety, (iv)
set appropriate road safety targets and establish a national road safety plan to achieve them,
(v) create budgets for road safety and increase investment in demonstrably effective road
safety activities. In line with these guidelines, VRSP was conceived as a stand-alone road
safety project to reflects the high level of political support for this issue in the country,
supported accountability and coordination through NTSC, involved MOT and the
ministries of Public Security, Education and Training, and Health for implementation, and
focused on demonstration corridors to show the effectiveness of road safety initiatives.

Despite this careful preparation process, the program was over capacity of the involved
agencies in the country which ultimately led to a difficult implementation of the project
and a delay of 36 months in its closing. In particular, the project design could have been
improved in the following two areas:

   An overly complex design: Simplicity of design is a key factor of success in
    environments where the multiplicity of stakeholders (from NTSC to line ministries,
    from the Traffic Safety Project Management Unit (TSPMU) to sub-PMUs, from
    contractors to provincial and central authorities), suboptimal administrative processes,
    weak institutional capacity, discrepancies in appraisal procedures between ministries,
    and a wide geographical project area scope are bound to make implementation
    complex. Contrary to this view, VRSP included 18 sub-components for a $US 31
    million project, triggered the procurement of more than 60 packages (ranging from
    black spot treatment detailed designs and mobile inspection vehicles to the purchase of
    helmets and a road user awareness campaign), and involved 63 cities and provinces all
    over Vietnam. This design made it extremely challenging to retain the project focus, to
    coordinate the preparation of all the components across agencies, and ultimately to
    allow for a timely and effective implementation of the project.

   The lack of clear and effective institutional arrangements: Under the designed
    implementation arrangements, NTSC, with support of its Executive Office (NTSC-
    EO), acted as the executive agency responsible for overall project oversight and
    created the TSPMU for coordinating day to day implementation (including
    procurement, financial management, and monitoring). On top of this, each of the 6


                                              5
    participating agencies (the Ministries of Public Security, Education and Training, and
    Health, the VRA and the Vietnam Register under the Ministry of Transport, and the
    NTSC Executive Office) were to establish and staff a sub-PMU to implement its part
    of the project. Sub-PMUs were responsible for technical decisions and management of
    their respective subcomponents. The Ministry of Finance, People’s Committees at the
    provincial level and provincial traffic safety departments also had supporting roles.

   These suboptimal arrangements were compounded by the fact that the agencies
    involved did not always have the adequate authority or resources to conduct their
    tasks: in particular, NTSC, by mandate an overarching agency for all ministries, had
    neither the legal authority nor the adequate resources to carry out its leadership role
    and direct participating agencies, which proved a major obstacle towards the smooth
    implementation of the project. Moreover, initially tasking the TSPMU (under the
    authority of NTSC) of procurement responsibilities for packages to be implemented by
    sub-PMUs (under the authority of the ministries and agencies instituting them) would
    clearly lead to severe implementation delays.


2.2 Implementation


The implementation of the project went through two very distinct phases: lagging and
ineffective from loan effectiveness to early 2009, timely and satisfactory from early 2009
to the actual closing date. But the complexity of the project implementation arrangements
and design, combined with significant delays in the procurement of activities critical to the
execution of the project, resulted in extremely slow disbursements. As a result, VRSP was
flagged as a problem project in July 2008, and the closing date was extended twice: from
December 31, 2009 to June 30, 2011, and then to December 2012.

From March 2006 to March 2009, the overall progress of the project remained
extremely low. By June 2008, the majority of activities were either at preparation (80%)
or under bidding (12%), with only 8% under actual implementation. By November 2008,
or one year before the original closing date of December 2009, the disbursement rate was
8.7%. At the time of the mid-term review in February 2009 (itself postponed several times
since early 2008), 13% of the activities were under implementation and 3% had been
completed. Three main issues could be identified as being behind the execution setbacks:

       Initial procurement delays: The delay in the procurement of the A1 Consultancy
        proved to be a major setback for project implementation. This subcomponent was
        designed to finance an integrated package of technical assistance to support
        capacity building and implementation support across all project components and
        implementing agencies. The procurement of this A1 Consultancy started in 2007
        bus as a result of complaints received regarding procurement handling and the
        selection process, the package was re-bid in the third quarter of 2008 after
        experiencing a long delay. The consultant was finally mobilized in November 2009,
        but the delay had a significant impact on all the components dependent on its
        support.

       Institutional issues: The weak institutional capacity and limitation of resources of
        NTSC hindered the smooth implementation of VRSP. The NTSC, by mandate, was
        the key road safety planning and coordination body of various ministries to
        facilitate road safety initiatives. However, it did not have the authority, the staff


                                              6
        nor the expertise to exercise its oversight of the project as defined through the
        institutional arrangements of the projects. In effect, the NTSC (i) only had advisory
        powers and was not positioned at the higher level of decision-making, (ii) its
        resources were markedly insufficient in terms of manpower, access to data, and for
        conducting studies and analyses, and (iii) its staff did not include a large amount of
        traffic safety specialists.

       Lack of proactive supervision: During the first two years of project
        implementation, and despite the fact that the disbursement rate was below 8%,
        official supervision remained extremely limited. Until the project was flagged as a
        problem status in July 2008, only three official supervision missions were
        conducted after the Credit signing of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA):
        in December 2005, in October 2006, and in July 2007. Similarly, only three
        Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) were completed and filed from 2006 to 2008.
        This, along with a late mid-term review, led VRSP to be delayed due to recurrent
        procurement issues and, ultimately, to a delay of three years in project closing.

From March 2009 up until the closing of the project in December 2012, the
implementation of the project progressed smoothly and efficiently. The diagnosis and
recommendations of the mid-term review, as well as the rigorous and proactive follow up
enabled by a tightened supervision process were key elements behind the turnaround of
the project.

The three main factors behind the acceleration of the execution of the project can be
identified as the following:

   A vigorous supervision of the project, and agreement on a time bound action
    plan: by July 2009, the 19 targets set by the midterm review to upgrade the project to
    normal status had been met (with the exception of the award of the A1 consulting
    services contract). That contract was signed on September 2009. Following this
    approach, a further series of 9 targets were agreed to be completed by October 2009
    and were achieved. All in all, 6 official supervision missions were conducted from
    March 2009 to the closing of the project. In addition, close daily supervision allowed
    to provide timely support to the client, and the task team adopted a proactive approach
    The task team always seeked support from Bank management and asked government
    leadership to provide timely decisions/responses.

   The restructuring of the project, as a significant streamlining effort regarding the
    scope of the project subcomponents took place after the midterm review, allowing
    the project to regain its focus. Subcomponent B6 (road safety audits/safety
    inspections) was added to the contract for the consultant engaged under C2
    (demonstration corridors M&E) and there was a reduction in the scope of work in
    education and awareness raising program under B8.2 to address specific target groups
    with specific themes. Overseas training under A4.2 was also reduced in order to
    concentrate efforts on components with the most impact. The Bank and GOV also
    agreed to cancel the Vehicle Inspection Equipment (B4.3).

   Institutional changes: In order to strengthen the capacity of NTSC, GOV passed the
    Decree No.32 to consolidate its structures and decision-making procedures with the
    Deputy Prime Minister instated as the Chair of NTSC. Also, a change of leadership
    was implemented at TSPMU, which had noticeable effects in terms of project


                                              7
   ownership, clearer direction and faster delivery of procurement documents. Staffing
   resources were also strengthened in both NTSC and TSPMU



2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The M&E framework was designed based on 4Es (Engineering, Education,
Enforcement, Emergency) approach and the Road Safety Management Pyramid, which
links interventions to intermediate outcomes to primary outcomes in road safety. The
primary outcomes of road safety programs are usually the reduction of number of
accidents, injuries and fatalities that occur, outcomes which were applied to VRSP.
Accidents were classified by severity levels of fatal, severe injury and slight injury.
Intermediate outcomes (such as decrease in traffic exceeding posted speed limits, better
maintained vehicles, increase in motor cycle riders wearing helmets or increase of safety
belt usage) were used to measure compliance with traffic law or standards that are directly
related to the primary outcomes and thus the accident scenarios.

M&E implementation focused on the collection of data for the demonstration corridors,
on the development of a methodology for monitoring road safety improvements and
interventions, and on the training local staff in methods and procedures. VRSP
collected its own data on the three demonstration corridors on traffic volume, speed,
helmet and seatbelt wearing, alcohol usage and vehicle/driver documentation through
surveys carried out by the M&E consultant: in total, starting mid-2008, 9 vehicle speed
surveys were carried out, as well as 18 helmet and seatbelt usage surveys, 8 alcohol and
vehicle/driver licensing surveys in cooperation with the Traffic Police, and traffic volume
8-hour counts each December in cooperation with VRA. Other data were collected from
stakeholders, including registration data, MOH injury records, driver´s licensing, vehicle
inspection statistics and official nationwide accident statistics from the Traffic Police. For
instance, the accident data from the corridors was hand collected by the consultant every
quarter from the responsible police stations along the three corridors.

Six training courses were also conducted on monitoring, evaluating and reporting of
road safety projects and interventions, as well as reporting of primary and intermediate
outcomes: a road safety audit course for TSPMU and VRA staff in May 2008, a blackspot
identification, investigation and treatment Course in September 2008, an information
management course on Project Management for TSPMU and the sub-PMUs in December
2008, two courses for the police on May 2012 to raise awareness of road safety,
enforcement and data collection, and a general M&E course for all stakeholders in
November 2012.

Due to a lack of reliable data at appraisal the M&E framework presented in the PAD
omitted critical targets and some baseline values proved to be inaccurate. Issues with the
quality of road safety data were recognized in the PAD. To address the need for high
quality data the project included the design, development and commissioning of a National
Road Accident Database System (NRADS), the intermediate indicator for this activity was
achieved by the end of the project. To improve the poor quality of the appraisal data the
project included a contract for monitoring and evaluation along the demonstration
corridors. Work under this contract confirmed the problem of significant underreporting of
injuries and attempted to reconcile data from different sources.




                                              8
However, the results of this M&E work were only available at the end of the project and
more attention should have been devoted from the outset to setting up a rigorous M&E
framework. Due to the low quality of the baseline figures estimated during preparation
(and used in the PAD), difficulties were encountered in measuring changes from these
baselines during implementation. Also, key results indicators for Component B
(percentage of traffic exceeding posted speed limits, of motorcycle riders wearing helmets,
of motorcycle drivers licensed, of commercial vehicle operators licensed, of vehicles in
demonstration corridors passing first time inspection) were missing from the PAD and
thus undermined the quality of the M&E framework.

In the PAD baseline estimates for total number of accidents and injuries were estimated
based on factors applied to the number of fatalities as reported by MOPS, the factors
applied were derived from experience in developed countries. This approach assumed (i)
that the MOPS data for number of fatalities was reliable, and (ii) that the factors applied
were appropriate to Vietnam. Both of these assumptions proved to be flawed in that (i) the
MOPS data underreported fatalities, and (ii) the factors used to determine the number of
accidents and injuries were too low, resulting in further underreporting. To address these
issues, the M&E activities developed a revised baseline based on a more rigorous analysis
of available data. In particular, greater use was made of MOH data to compliment MOPS
data. For the purposes of this ICR, and to be able to compare the measurements with the
original baseline, the M&E data reported at the end of the project was converted to be
compatible to the baseline indicators from the PAD, using the factor of injuries reported
by MOH to the amount of serious injuries reported by MOPS. This approach does not
address underreporting of accidents and injuries in the PAD baselines, suggesting that the
actual reduction in accidents and injuries was greater than that reported in this ICR.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Procurement

Procurement was moderately satisfactory, as procurement issues were the main factor
behind the significant delays experienced in project implementation. The capacity
building and implementation support (A1.1) consultant, who was by design instrumental
for management and procurement assistance, was mobilized in October 2009, after being
delayed by re-bidding. The first contract for blackspot treatment civil works (B1.1) was
signed in April 2010 and the consulting services for the design of the accident database, a
key element for identifying blackspot locations and strategic interventions, was signed in
October 2010. Commencements of these crucial contracts were behind the originally
planned schedule for a minimum of 12 months. This significant delay was mainly caused
by the lack of ownership and adequate capacity of the implementing agencies in charge.

The original VRSP implementation plan was based on the assumption that an international
consultant would be available at the start of the project to provide implementation support
(A1.1), particularly for procurement. A large portion of this assistance for management
was intended for the preparation of bidding documents for all packages, work plans and
for on demand assistance. As a result of the delayed arrival of the implementation support
consultant, a large number of packages had to be prepared entirely by the sub-PMUs
without external guidance. The signature of the contract with the consultant in October
2009 streamlined the procurement process significantly, but issues remained as the
consultant did not attend evaluation meetings, restricted to evaluation members selected
by the authorities. Similarly, the consultant could not advise the quality control of the
independent body selected (TCQM), which was involved in every payment pre-approval


                                            9
process of the project. TCQM approved all requests from the NTSC, regardless of the
amounts involved, generating further delays.

The lack of familiarity with WB procurement guidelines and discrepancies in
procedures across agencies slowed down project implementation considerably. The
absence of formally established and fully functional sub-project implementing agencies,
inadequate procurement capacity of the project implementing agencies and inadequate
familiarity of the participating agencies with Bank procurement rules, and the high-risk
procurement environment were not sufficiently mitigated through the several training
activities for the procurement teams. Also, appraisal procedures within GOV remained
complex and lengthy, as they involved specialized ministries with their own procedures
and having to coordinate their activities through Decision no. 387 (2007).

Financial Management

Financial management was generally satisfactory over the course of the implementation
of the project. While the NTSC was the executing agency for VRSP, internal controls,
quarterly financial reports, disbursement progress and follow up with audit issues were
managed by TSPMU. The accounting system of TSPMU was assessed as adequate, after a
new accounting software (ANA) was introduced in June 2010, even though minor
mistakes in general accounting balances persisted. IFRs, expected by the Bank no later
than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, were submitted timely and were
generally of acceptable quality (despite recurrent, but later corrected, errors such as not
carrying forward the opening cash balance of Government Counterpart Fund or incorrect
reporting of counterpart expenditures). The internal controls as regulated in the FM
manual were complied with, and bank, cash, fixed assets were satisfactorily maintained.
There were regular occurrences of ineligible expenditures (honorarium fees paid to civil
servants for a training course, financing of “receiving/welcoming guest activities?), but
these were swiftly refunded in accordance with the Project DCA. External audit reports
were submitted to the Bank on time, have unqualified audit opinion and with acceptable
quality.

Social Safeguards

The project triggered the Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12 safeguards), but
safeguards implementation work (under A2) revealed there were no resettlement issues
on the demonstration corridors. The review of potential social impact, based on detailed
designs for the corridors, confirmed there was no land acquisition, resettlement nor
compensation involved for any of the package or corridors.

Environmental safeguards

The project triggered the Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01) safeguards. An
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was prepared, providing a framework within
VRSP to prevent or mitigate potential environmental impacts. It also provided a
monitoring plan to ensure compliance with the EMP. It assessed potential environmental
impacts and conducted a screening analysis of the 15 proposed blackspot improvements.
The main potential impacts were found to relate to air quality, water quality and noise. It
was considered unlikely that either the direct or indirect impacts of the engineering works
would result in environmental conditions any worse than prevailing situation, and any
environmental impact that is not prevented can be mitigated. The EMP covered the
following five technical areas: materials supply (indirect impacts), soils, hydrology, air


                                            10
quality, noise. The supervision consultants for black-treatment contracts provided
adequate monitoring for the EMP implementation. No petition on the environment issues
was received. The environmental safeguard policies were complied with.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

GOV has been discussing mounting an intervention based on this pilot project. . This
intervention would not only address the lessons learned in VRSP but also lay further
foundation, particularly in the area of road safety and institutional management and
capacity building. The overall goal would converge with VRSP’s: to reduce poverty and
vulnerability in Vietnam by reducing the incidence and severity of road transport injuries
and deaths. The main difference would lie in a greater focus on a select number of
effective road safety improvements and on the simplification of implementation
arrangements, based on lessons learned from VRSP. The objective could therefore be to
reduce the rates of accidents, injury and death associated with road transport through
innovative improvement interventions on high risk corridors and institutional development
to strengthen the management of road safety. This GOV-led intervention would target
quick and improved road safety results in provinces with some innovative Safe System
approach interventions on high-risk corridors. In particular, the Government will allocate
an annual budget to NTSC to sustain the road safety forum and trigger initiatives in road
safety. MOH is preparing a new Master-plan for Ambulance locations; MOET is rolling
out school programs to University Level; Traffic Police is proposing to rollout additional
traffic camera enforcement equipment.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objectives remain relevant to the development priorities of Vietnam at the
time of ICR. By addressing the immediate need to reduce the rates of road accidents,
injuries, and fatalities in the country, the project assisted the FY2012-FY2016 CPS and the
2011-2015 Government’s SEDP objectives of (i) strengthening Vietnam's competitiveness
in the regional and global economy, (ii) increasing the sustainability of its development,
and (iii) broadening access to economic and social opportunity.

Reducing road accident-related health shocks contributes to the productivity of the work
force, and addressing the administrative, legal, and governance arrangements required to
improve road safety and building up cross-sector capacity among transport, health and
education pushes Vietnams towards a more sustainable development model. In addition,
lowering the health costs and economic inefficiencies resulting from road crashes (which
push people into poverty) serves economic opportunity.

VRSP is also consistent with the move towards the Safe System approach to road safety
recommended by the OECD. By recognizing that road systems could be designed to
expect and accommodate human error, by addressing all elements of the road transport
system in an integrated way, by requiring acceptance of shared overall responsibilities and
accountability between system designers and road users, and by implementing innovative
interventions and new partnerships, VRSP helped the country to adopt an approach that is
increasingly implemented adopted in other countries. The Safe System approach (i)
recognizes that prevention efforts notwithstanding, road users will remain fallible and
crashes will occur, (ii) stresses that those involved in the design of the road transport
system need to accept and share responsibility for the safety of the system, and those that


                                            11
use the system need to accept responsibility for complying with the rules, (iii) aligns safety
management decisions with broader transport and planning decisions that meet wider
economic, human and environmental goals, and (iv) relies on innovative rather than
"traditional" interventions.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Project outcomes indicate that Project Development Objectives have been largely met:
 PDO 1: Accident rates per 100 million vehicle-km: the project corridors have
   demonstrated reductions in accident rates from 39 to 25 accidents per 100 million
   vehicle-km. The original target (29) constituted a 26% reduction from the baseline,
   and the actual target achieved a 36% reduction. The outcome was then achieved at
   138%.

   PDO 2: Injury rate per 100 million vehicle-km: the project corridors have
    demonstrated a reduction in injury rates from 130 to 107 severe injuries per 100
    million vehicle-km. The original target (62) was a 52% reduction from the baseline,
    and the actual target achieved an 18% reduction. The outcome was then partially
    achieved at 34% 4.

   PDO 3: Fatality rate per 100 million vehicle-km: the project corridors have
    demonstrated a reduction in fatality rates from 13 to 5.1 fatalities per 100 million
    vehicle-km. The original target (6) was a 54% reduction from the baseline, and the
    actual target achieved a 61% reduction. The outcome was then achieved at 113%

The PDO was achieved through the implementation of comprehensive, integrated road
safety programs along selected high risk demonstration corridors. Each project output
contributed to the many factors that cause road accidents along the demonstration
corridors and the effective treatment of accident victims. The combined impact of the
project outputs led to the project outcomes being achieved. Under Component B of the
project sub-components addressed the four ‘E’s of road safety: these being Education,
Engineering, Enforcement and Emergency.

Education addresses the need to reduce unsafe road user behavior that causes, or increases
the severity of, accidents. The project delivered 34,000 safety helmets to 17 schools in 12
provinces along demonstration corridors; provided road safety materials for use in schools;
and completed a comprehensive national road safety campaign, including TV commercials
and flyers.

Engineering addresses the need for roads and road vehicles to be designed, constructed
and maintained in such a way that reduces both the number and severity of accidents. The




4
  Prior to the project the number of deaths and injuries from road accidents was significantly under reported.
This was particularly so for injuries as victims would be quickly removed from an accident scene for
treatment and the cause of the injuries were not recorded at the hospital. Hence during the project it became
clear that the baseline for injuries was too low but there was no data with which to correct it. Given the
substantial under reporting before the project the reduction in numbers of injuries was greater than the
measured values suggest and it is likely that a 50% reduction in numbers of injuries was achieved.



                                                     12
project removed 40 blackspots on the three demonstration corridors5; trained and certified
150 road engineers as Road Safety Auditors; upgraded vehicle inspection computer
systems are operational in 92 inspection centers; delivered two ‘state-of-the-art’ mobile
inspection vehicles; and designed a National Vehicle Testing Center.

Enforcement addresses the need to establish acceptable road users behavior through the
enforcement of laws and regulations related to roads. The project designed, installed and
commissioned a traffic enforcement camera system on two demonstration corridors;
upgraded equipment for driver licensing system in all 63 Provincial Departments of
Transport nation-wide; upgraded driver training equipment and testing facilities at the Chi
Linh Driving Training Center; and designed, installed and commissioned new National
Road Accident Database System (NRADS).

Emergency addresses the need for ensuring that road accident victims are offered timely,
appropriate and competent care after an accident to reduce the severity of injuries and
number of deaths. The project procured and delivered three ambulances and emergency
equipment to 46 hospitals/clinics along demonstration corridors; and completed first-aid
responder training for traffic policemen and clinic medical staff along the demonstration
corridors.

The following key intermediate outcomes were achieved and contributed to the PDO
achievement: Performance-based national road safety strategy (phase 2), including
financing plan, developed and approved by Government: the strategy was prepared and
approved by Government. Traffic exceeding posted speed limits (%), reduced: the
number of motorcycles and four-wheel vehicles exceeding posted speed limits has
decreased by 40%. Motor cycle riders wearing helmets (%), improved: 94 percent of
males, 92 percent of females, and 63 percent of children now wear motorcycle helmets
(though the current helmet law does not require children to wear helmets, this represents a
significant increase from 34 percent in February 2009). Valid licenses have been issued to
more than 93 percent of both commercial vehicle operators and motorcyclists: 93% of
drivers now hold valid licenses. % of commercial vehicle operator licensed, improved:
97% of operators are licensed. Percentage of NRADS completed: 95% has been completed,
remaining works, mainly maintenance liability, was completed after project closure.
Number of biannual road safety reports prepared in accordance with project monitoring
and evaluation guidelines: all seven reports were prepared and submitted.

Two intermediate indictors were partially achieved or not met: Number of annual reports
on effectiveness of treatments and interventions prepared in accordance with project
monitoring and evaluation guidelines: was partially achieved as three out of four reports
were prepared and submitted. % of vehicles in demonstration corridors passing first time
inspection, improved: was not met as the number of failures increased. It is believed that
this reduction was as a result of testing procedures being improved such that testing
standards were being more strictly applied.

By strengthening institutional organization and capacity under Component A of the
project has led to significant and sustainable institutional outcomes: the Chairman of


5
  Of the three demonstration corridors one, National Highway 51, had to be replaced by
the HCMC – Ninh Thuan section of National Highway 1. This change was necessary as a
major highway improvement project was announced for National Highway 51.


                                            13
NTSC is now a Deputy Prime Minister; the project assisted in the development of a
National Road Safety Implementation Program (RSIP) to support the Vietnam Road
Safety Strategy; deployed an information system connecting all provincial traffic safety
committees to the NTSC; and procured and installed IT equipment for NTSC Information
System have been installed in all 63 PTSCs., The relevant agencies are now replicating
project activities in other areas beyond the project corridors. For example, a national
information system for vehicle inspection management is in full operation, training for
accredited road safety audit is continuing, training for traffic police on first aid is being
planned for expressway, new system of driving licensing is now in full operation,
enforcement camera is planned for other national highways etc. and a new road safety
project is proposed by NTSC and MOT.


3.3 Efficiency

The updated Net Present Value (NPV) and Economic Internal Rate of Returns (EIRR) of
the Project, using very conservative accident cost values, the currently reported ratio of
injuries to fatalities and actual effects of the Project interventions at the completion of the
project (presented in Table 9.6 below) show that VRSP is strongly viable.


                        Summary of Updated Economic Analysis
                                                            At ICR
                 Indicator              At appraisal Using accident costs
                                                     as in PAD by ADB
                 NPV (US$ million)            $23.13     $25.89   $20.67
                 EIRR (%)                       34%          77%        59%

By using the same methodology and model to realize projections at appraisal stage with
actual performance of the Project, both updated NPV and EIRR are higher than those at
appraisal phase, indicating that the Project was not only economically viable but also
proved to be an efficient use of Bank resources.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall outcome of the project was moderately satisfactory. Two of the three PDOs
were fully achieved at 138% (PDO 1) and 113 % (PDO 3) where the other one (PDO 2)
was partially achieved at 34%, leading to sharp reduction in the rate of accidents and death,
as well as significant reduction in the rate of injuries in the three VRSP road
demonstration corridors. Implementation issues at the start of the project caused these
results to be delivered three years later than originally intended, but the extremely
effective turnaround of the project starting 2009 ensured that these goals were achieved
while using Bank resources efficiently: at respectively USD 23.7 million and 75%, the
NPV and EIRR of the project were higher at the close of the project than during appraisal,
demonstrating the project’s clear efficiency despite the three years delays. Also, VRSP’s
overall development objectives were closely aligned with both GOV and best practice-
countries strategies on road safety interventions, and this alignment combined with sound
fiduciary and safeguards arrangements, a solid M&E framework, and carefully designed
blackspot treatments. However, due to the significant implementation delay at the start of


                                              14
project, many project activities were implemented at a late implementation stage, such as
installation of cameras, the road safety awareness building campaign, and the NRADS.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

VRSP helped elevate road safety issues in the national dialogue and has some impact at
the institutional level: the helmet law for instance constituted a major step in addressing
safety and awareness issues when it was mandated in 2007. Recently the decision to
remove low-quality helmets from the market was another step in the right direction. This
was also the main driver behind the KPI on helmet usage. Due to the economic losses
linked to traffic accident deaths and injuries, the drop in traffic accidents contributed to the
reduction of poverty in project areas. Direct impact on gender aspects was not reported.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Capacity has improved significantly for some agencies following VRSP’s investments
and activities. This is most notable for the TSPMU, throughout the wide range of
challenges that have occurred and the implementation support consultant guidance and
training. The planning capacity of the sub-PMUs has also been positively affected, but
remained dependent on the availability of the staff assigned at various phases of VRSP.
This should be addressed in a future road safety project. Moreover, the new NTSC
information system will link the NTSC in Hanoi with the 63 PTSCs in the provinces
(including Hanoi and HCMC) and will provide a server for data exchange, analysis and
knowledge management in addition to a web site. Road safety management training was
also provided to NTSC-EO, PTSCs and PMU.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

A key risk to the sustainability of VRSP’s outcomes is the lack of capacity within NTSC,
combined with inadequate and single source funding. Lack of funding, especially for the
operation and maintenance on the blackspot interventions, could undermine VRSP’s
achievements as the allocation of adequate human, equipment and budgetary resources
must comply with the functional requirements of the road safety management system.
Capacity could remain weak at the NTSC-EO, mainly due to inadequate staffing and
limited technical knowledge in several areas of road safety (despite the fact that the
implementation support consultant conducted several workshops and discussions on the
NTSC organizational structure and emphasized the need to increase the technical staffing
of the NTSC). Moreover, the country’s institutional framework for road safety still lacks
several critical elements found in good practice countries. For instance, without an
operational / management level committee and sector working groups, the work of the
NTSC will suffer from a lack of sustained and ongoing co-ordination between meetings.


                                              15
Only a policy level committee has been established (NTSC), supported by a secretariat
(NTSC-EO).

On the other hand, ownership of VRSP and its objectives have been strong at all levels of
government, and there is a clear sense that GOV will dedicate an adequate amount of
resources for future road safety initiatives. A follow up project to VRSP, which would
demonstrate GOV’s commitment on these issues, was also being discussed at the time of
this ICR.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The Bank performance during the lending phase is rated moderately satisfactory. As
noted in section 2.1, the project exhibited weaknesses in two areas at entry: (i) an overly
complex design, which included 18 sub-components for a $US 31 million project,
triggered the procurement of more than 60 packages, involved 63 cities and provinces all
over Vietnam; and (ii) the lack of clear and effective institutional arrangements, with an
implementing agency (NTSC) which had not adequate resources or expertise to carry out
its leadership role and direct participating agencies. In addition TSPMU (under the
authority of NTSC) which had procurement responsibilities for packages to be
implemented by sub-PMUs, was not empowered to carry them. This design made it
extremely challenging to coordinate the preparation of all the components across agencies,
and was a major factor behind implementation delays. The Borrower has characterized the
project design as unreasonable in its own ICR.

Moreover, more attention should have been devoted to setting up a rigorous M&E
framework from the outset. Due to the low quality of the baseline figures estimated during
preparation (and used in the PAD), the M&E activities had to rely on a different baseline.
Also, key results indicators for Component B (percentage of traffic exceeding posted
speed limits, of motorcycle riders wearing helmets, of motorcycle drivers licensed, of
commercial vehicle operators licensed, of vehicles in demonstration corridors passing first
time inspection) were missing from the PAD and thus undermined the quality of the M&E
framework.


(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The quality of supervision was moderately satisfactory up until the midterm review in
early 2009. During the first two years of project implementation, and despite the fact that
the disbursement rate was below 8%, Bank official supervision of the project remained
limited. Until the project was flagged as a problem status in July 2008, only three
supervision official missions were conducted after the signing of the DCA: in December
2005, in October 2006, and in July 2007. Similarly, only three Implementation Status
Reports (ISRs) were completed and filed: in January 2006, February 2007, and in June
2008 (this ISR was completed almost a year after the last supervision mission, and 1.5
years after the latest ISR). As a result, and due to the complex institutional arrangements
involving a range of agencies and line ministries and to the number of packages in the

                                            16
project design, procurements problems were not thoroughly followed up upon and the
closing date had to be extended twice.

However, the highly satisfactory quality of supervision starting 2009 led to swift
turnaround of the project (as noted by management) and a smoother implementation of
the project until completion. Following the midterm review, a 19-targets time bound
action plan, to which the extension of the project closing date was conditioned, was rolled
out in March 2009 and by July 2009 all 19 targets had been met with the exception of the
award of the A1 consulting services contract. Feedback from GOV agencies showed that
the proactive, problem-solving centered and trust building approach followed by the Bank
supervision team played no small part in the successful turnaround of the project during its
last three years. The team in Hanoi provided hands-on oversight of the project with a
strong emphasis on implementation quality, monitoring and evaluation, financial
management reporting, and, overall, rigorous Aide-Memoire follow up. Comments
provided by line ministries, agencies and local authority’s staff have all indicated deep
appreciation for the respectful working relationship and the constructive approach that was
established, despite the complexity and wide scope of the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

In summary, the Bank was successful in helping VRSP achieve its development
objectives, albeit with moderate shortcomings. As clearly shown through the sharp
reduction in the rate of accidents, injury and death associated with road transport in the
three VRSP demonstration corridors, the project development objective of the World Bank
first stand-alone road safety intervention was met. Bank efforts also ensured that VRSP
stayed highly relevant to the GOV road safety priorities and laid a robust groundwork to
future road safety efforts based on a Safe System approach. The Bank performance did
suffer from quality at entry problems due to an unrealistic design and sub-optimal
institutional arrangements, and supervision efforts in the first three years of the project fell
short of what was required for a project with so many agencies involved and packages to
be procured (spanning areas from road safety education to IT systems to road safety
equipment). However, these issues were identified at the midterm review and the Bank
performed a quick and effective turnaround of the project starting in early 2009. As such,
an overall rating of moderately satisfactory is justified.


5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Government performance is assessed as moderately satisfactory. The rating reflects
shortcomings in coordinating efforts across multiple line ministries in the early stage of
implementation, while later recognizing major policy achievements in elevating the
importance of road safety. This includes the appointment of the Deputy Prime Minister to
chair the National Transportation Safety Committee.
(b) Implementing Agency Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Implementing agency performance is assessed as moderately satisfactory. This reflects
shortcomings in TSPMU management on various aspects of implementation, including
minor issues related to financial management (requiring repayment of ineligible

                                              17
expenditures). While TSPMU was the lead implementing agency for the project,
assessment of the six sub-PMUs is considered as follows:

Sub-PMU                 Performance
                        Moderately Unsatisfactory – Due to weak capacity, NTSC-EO
                        delegated much of their responsibilities to other agencies in MOT
NTSC-EO
                        resulted in delays in completion of reviews and approvals of
                        submissions from TSPMU.
                        Moderately Satisfactory- the design and procurement of the civil
Vietnam Road            works for the accident black-spots was delayed. However, once
Administration          civil works contracts were awarded the work was completed in a
                        timely manner.
                        Satisfactory – sub-component activities were completed in a
Vietnam Register
                        timely manner.
                        Moderately Unsatisfactory - Significant delays in procurement of
                        the National Road Accident Database and challenges in meeting
Ministry of Police
                        the implementation schedule of the pilot enforcement corridors
                        would impact overall project performance.
                        Moderately Satisfactory- the design and printing of school books
Ministry of Education
                        was implemented but there were delays in the procurement.
                        Moderately Satisfactory- the training of first-aid responders was
Ministry of Health      implemented but there were delays in the procurement of the
                        hospital equipment and ambulances.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Borrower’s overall performance is rated as moderately satisfactory. Key investment
and institutional strengthening activities were ultimately delivered, though often behind
schedule.

6. Lessons Learned

A responsible lead organization with effective decision making powers is a prerequisite
to manage an effective road safety program. NTSC does not have any authority to
streamline the implementation management systems in other agencies. Further, NTSC’s
limited capacity prevented NTSC from taking the role of an effective leading road safety
agency. As a result, the implementation arrangements for VRSP’s were not conducive to
quick decision making and the institutional framework for road safety lacked critical
elements found in best-practice countries (no operational / management level committee
nor sector working groups). A framework identifying leadership, collaboration and
accountability of departments within government and non-government road safety
stakeholders needs to be established for future road safety efforts to ensure the
development, effective implementation and delivery of the road safety strategy. Models
used elsewhere in the world vary from having a (i) lead agency that plays a dominant role
in most of the institutional management functions, in addition to taking a lead role in
implementation; and (ii) having a lead agency that is responsibility within government for
the development of the national road safety strategy but coordinates the implementation of
the strategy through the delegation of individual activates to each line agency. Given the
strong independence of government agencies in Vietnam it is likely that the first model
may not be applicable, as demonstrated by the outcomes under VRSP. Given this future


                                           18
interventions need to build on the achievements of VRSP to develop NTSC as the agency
responsible for horizontal inter-governmental coordination, vertical coordination of
national, regional and local activities and the coordination of delivery partnerships
between government, professional, non-governmental and business sectors.

Simplicity of design and implementation arrangements are key for Safe System –
inspired road safety approaches, which put the emphasis at once on road user behaviors,
road designs, institutional capacity and stakeholders awareness. Simplicity of design is a
key factor of success in environments where the multiplicity of stakeholders, suboptimal
administrative processes, weak institutional capacity, discrepancies in appraisal
procedures between ministries, and a wide geographical project area scope were bound to
make implementation complex. Moreover, slow government internal communications,
coordination and approval procedures, internal reorganizations and regulatory changes are
issues that should be anticipated. In the case of VRSP, they became particularly acute in a
context where rigid government control systems were imposed on a multi-sector project
involving several agencies and sub-PMUS. To simplify the implementation arrangements,
the number of PMUs should be minimized, in comparison to one PMU and six sub-PMUs
in VRSP, and responsibility for procurement and quality control should be delegated to a
unique PMU for every contract, avoiding multiple agencies internal control mechanisms.

Sustainable funding and the availability of adequate knowledge and skills are essential
to the delivery of road safety interventions. Without the right mix of adequate funding and
human resources for road safety interventions, institutional structures and processes tend
to be ineffective and national strategies tend to remain a “paper exercise?. The allocation
of appropriate human, equipment and budgetary resources must comply with the
functional requirements of the road safety management system. In the case of VRSP,
resources at several sub PMUs were inadequate, most notably at the NTSC-EO. Similarly,
funding for crucial items such as police resources and equipment was not a high priority.
Therefore, a long term investment strategy, relying on multiple income streams to avoid
the over-dependency on a single source, would be required to implement the desired
results. Additional sources of funding could be considered, as surcharges on traffic fines,
motor fuel, weight-distance charges, compulsory vehicle insurance, vehicle license fees, or
toll fees from roads.

M&E systems need to be based on a comprehensive road safety management
information system, including a national road accident database. For the VRSP
indicator baselines were estimated based on trends observed in developing countries. As
data was collected during the project it became clear that the these trends were not
appropriate for Vietnam. Although a temporary data collection system was set up with the
assistance of the district police on the pilot corridors, health data also could not be used
due to the absence of MOH inputs in the database. The commissioning of NRADS and
the NTSC IT systems under VRSP have the potential to provide a range of data that can be
used to monitor road safety interventions in the future. However, future interventions
should assist NTSC in (i) expanding the use of NRADS to include agencies of MOH and
MOT, and (ii) linking databases on vehicle and driver registration and driver violations to
the NRADS database. The objective would be to create a family of interlinked databases
that allows data on all aspects of each accident to be recorded such that trends in accidents
can be used to identify measures needed to reduce both the number and severity of
accidents. These interventions could include: black-spot road improvements, upgrading of
accident response systems in areas of high accidents, intensified police surveillance to
enforce traffic laws in areas of high accident rates.



                                             19
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Editorial comments were provided, ICR text has been revised to address these comments.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                          20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                      Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                            Percentage of
          Components                                 Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                               Appraisal
                                                        millions)

            Total Baseline Cost         31.24              27.64                  88.5
Physical Contingencies                   0.38
                                                               0.00                0
Price Contingencies                      3.30
                                                            0.00                   0
              Total Project Costs      34.92               27.64                  79.2
Front-end fee PPF                     N/A                   0.00                   0
Front-end fee IBRD                    N/A                   0.00                   0
      Total Financing Required         31.73               23.74                  87.1




(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                      Type of      Estimate       Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                    Cofinancing      (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                   millions)      millions)
Borrower                                        3.19                3.90        122
International Development
                                                31.73                 23.74            75
Association (IDA)




                                           21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component A                         Institutional and Capacity Building Program                      Status    US$ Amount
      A1                          Capacity building and implementation support
 Package A1.1    Implementation support to NTSC/TSPMU and pre-F/S of the Vehicle Testing Center    Completed    5,136,994
 Package A1.2                           TSPMU Financial Management system                          Completed      34,789
 Package A1.3                                      Financial Uditing                               Completed      46,796
 Package A1.4                      Early Implementation Support to NTSC/TSPMU                      Completed      47,600
      A2                 Safeguards implementation support and independent monitoring
 Package A2.1      Consulting services for social/envt monitoring of blackspot treatment program   Completed     83,076
 Package A2.2            Procurement of equipment to support environmental monitoring              Completed     35,217
      A3                            NTSC Equipment to support implementation
                        4 WD vehicles, computers, office equipment, electrical equipment           Completed     379,990
     A4                                      Operating costs and training
Package A4.1                                    TSPMU operating costs                              Completed    1,496,000
Package A4.2                               Project implementation training                         Completed     552,000

Component B                     Road Safety Demonstration and Awareness Program                      Status    US$ Amount
     B1                                      Blackspot treatment program
Package B1.1                              Hanoi - Thanh Hoa - 12 blackspots                        Completed     288,872
Package B1.2                               Thanh Hoa - Vinh - 10 blackspots                        Completed     491,887
Package B1.3                             HCMC - Ninh Thuan - 11 blackspots                         Completed    9,732,111
Package B1.4                                HCMC - Can Tho - 7 blackspots                          Completed     588,330
     B2                                               Resettlement
                             No land acquistion, resettlement, compensation involved               Completed       0
      B3                                 Design and Construction supervision
 Package B3.1                            Blackspot treatment detailed design                       Completed     96,695
 Package B3.2                                  Construction supervision                            Completed     114,006
      B4                            Vehicle inspection computer systems upgrade
 Package B4.1                        Computer and communications equipment                         Completed     448,698
 Package B4.2                  Software development for vehicle inspection system                  Completed     158,000
 Package B4.3                                    Inspection equipment                              Cancelled        0
 Package B4.4                               Two mobile inspection vehicles                         Completed    1,479,559
      B5                                       Driver training and testing
 Package B5.1                               Upgraded licensing equipment                           Completed    893,238
 Package B5.2                 Upgraded driver training equipment and testing facilities            Completed    110,901
      B6                               Road safety audits and safety inspection                    Completed     113648
      B7                             Demonstration corridor safety enforcement                     Completed    2749265
      B8                                 Road user education and awareness
 Package B8.1     Consulting for coordinated road user education and public awareness campaigns    Completed     994,800
Package B8.2.1                         Safety helmets for children and teachers                    Completed     203,805
Package B8.2.2                   Printing and dissemination of road safety materials               Cancelled     34,561
Package B8.2.3                                 NTSC information system                             Completed     313,438
Package B8.2.4                              Road safety promotion vehicle                          Completed     89,528
Package B8.2.5                            Road safety management training                          Completed     180,000
Package B8.2.6       Implementation of road user education and publci awareness campaigns          Completed     534,372
      B9                                    Road safety education program
 Package B9.1                                Teaching materials and books                          Completed     212,126
Package B9.2.1                              Traffic safety teaching facilities                     Completed     278,918
Package B9.2.2                           Other teaching materials and books                        Completed     212,305
 Package B9.3                         Design of road safety education materials                    Completed     460,948
 Package B9.4                               Teacher training on road safety                        Completed     100,000
     B10                                 Road accident emergency treatment
Package B10.1          Road accident emergency treatment supplies for hospitals and clinics        Completed     856,250
Package B10.2                                      Three ambulances                                Completed     158,215
Package B10.3                                Training and training material                        Completed     361,000
     B11                           Operating costs for the demonstration corridors                 Completed    2,070,000
     B12                                        Local consulting services                          Completed     137,500
Annex 2. Outputs by Component (continued)

Component C                      Road Safety Monitoring and Evaluation Program                       Status    US$ Amount
     C1                         National Road Accident Database System (NRADS)
Package C1.1                             Design and Installation of NRADS                          Completed    1,840,608
Package A1.2              Supply and Installation of the database hardware and software            Completed    1,317,495
     C2                        Demonstration Corridor Monitoring and Evaluation                    Completed    2,212,770


                                                            22
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The objective of VRSP was to improve road safety in Vietnam by applying an integrated
set of interventions to three “high-risk? demonstration corridors. The proposed
investments targeted to reduce road user costs and costs to society by reducing the number
and severity of fatalities and injuries that result from road accidents.
In May 2005, as part of the appraisal procedure, an economic analysis of the VRSP was
conducted to justify the economic viability of the project components. This analysis will
update assumptions based on actual performance of the Project by 2012 to reconfirm
economic benefits of the project.
Evaluation Criteria
The update analysis applies the same cost benefit analysis method that used in appraisal
phase. Because of the integrated nature of the Project and the covariance effects between
Project components, the Project has been evaluated as a whole rather than as individual
components.
A model has been developed for road safety on the three demonstration corridors that
takes account of the historic, current and predicted vehicle kilometres travelled, historic,
current and predicted accident rates, and estimates of the effect of project interventions.
Road accidents, fatalities and injuries are modelled for the demonstration corridors “with?
and “without? the Project. The economic evaluation measures the incremental costs and
benefits between these two alternatives.
The economic evaluation uses a 12 percent discount rate and a 20-year analysis period.
Costs and benefits are discounted to 2004 values. The exchange rate in 2004 was 15,500
VND to US$1.00. Project costs and benefits have been expressed in economic terms,
rather than using actual market/financial prices.
Costs
The main costs of the project are the costs of civil works (blackspot treatments) and
purchase of vehicles, equipment and materials. These originally were estimated based on
historical cost data for similar works and purchases in Vietnam, and are updated with
actual annual disbursements.
                    Table 9.1. Economic Project Costs (US$ million)
                    Year       PAD Projection     Actual Disbursement
                    2005             10.46                        -
                    2006              6.54                    1.38
                    2007              4.91                    0.23
                    2008              4.86                    0.62
                    2009                                      0.79
                    2010                                      2.97
                    2011                                      4.93
                    2012                                      5.22
                    2013                                      6.23
                    Total            26.77                   22.35
Benefits


                                             23
The main economic benefits of the Project are reductions in social costs resulting from
reduced numbers and severity of fatalities and injuries that result from road accidents.
There are some time savings to road users from better availability of medical services but
these have not been included in the analysis. Environmental effects of the Project are small
and mitigation measures are included as part of construction, therefore, environmental
benefits or dis-benefits have been excluded.
Accident Costs
Accident costs used in the Project economic analysis during appraisal phase in 2005 were
those documented in Technical Note No. 6 “Road Accident Costing in Vietnam? from the
Vietnam Road Safety Improvement Study carried out by Ross Silcock, et al in March 1999
and updated to March 2004 values.
Internationally, willingness-to-pay has become the accepted method to measure the value
of life. This approach for developed countries gives a value (usually termed the “value of a
statistical life?, or the “value of a statistical fatality avoided?) many times higher than the
human capital approach. A recent study suggests that a reasonable range for a country’s
value of statistical life appears to be 100-200 times GDP per capita.
Using the low end of this range for Vietnam would still substantially scale-up the estimate
of project benefits and this underscores the conservative nature of the estimates made
using the values provided by Technical Note No. 6.
Since then there were two other studies on accident costs in Vietnam:
 VietnamRoad Traffic Accident Costing as part of the Regional Road Safety Program
carried out by Asian Development Bank in association of Southeast Asian Nations in 2004
using the gross output or human capital methodology.
 Costing road accidents, a National Research Study conducted by the Transport
Development and Strategy Institute (TDSI) in 2006. The study has collected a relatively
comprehensive record of accidents from major hospitals, insurance agencies, traffic
polices, etc in order to estimate economic value of road accidents.


                 Table 9.2. Accident Costs in Vietnam (2004 price, US$)
             Type of accident               PAD             ADB            TDSI*
             Fatality                     14,000           11,393          27,006
             Injury                           400            2,003         10,450
           * The costs were calculated in 2006 and adjusted back to 2004
            Injury costs were calculated for serious injuries


The above injury accident costs include an adjustment for damage only accidents
and assume that injuries are 25 percent serious and 75 percent minor. If only
serious injuries are being considered, then the injury cost should be increased.
This updated analysis keeps using the conservative accident costs as in PAD, but
also calculate benefits of the Project using accident costs of the ADB studies for
references.




                                                 24
Traffic Data
The GOV Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy is based on high
growth, which will be accompanied by high growth in traffic and exposure to risk on the
road network. Traffic growth in Vietnam has been very high over the past decade and,
given the GOV strategy, it is assumed that this trend will continue.
At appraisal phase in 2005, limited traffic count information from 1997 to 2003 was
obtained from VRA for the demonstration corridors. This was extrapolated to give vehicle
kilometers of travel (VKT) for each section of the corridors. The weighted average annual
traffic growth (linear) for the corridors using this data, based on linear regression, was 8.6
% (percent of 2003 values).
During project implementation, traffic counts have been done regularly under the Package
Consulting Services for Demonstration Corridors Monitoring and Evaluation of the
Component C2 by Consia Consultant. These data are cross checked with available traffic
counts carried out by DVRN. An assessment has been done to estimate impacts of the
open of the HCMC - Trung Luong Expressway in 2010 and Cau Gie - Ninh Binh
Expressway in November 2011 and to define the average annual traffic growth rate of
8.7% on the demonstration corridors. The actual growth rate is 8.7%, which is very close
to the rate assumed in the analysis in PAD. Details on traffic counts are in the Table 9.3.
Accident Data
The baseline data in 2004 was based on accident data for 2000 to 2003 for the
demonstration corridors obtained from RRMU2, RRMU7 and Traffic Police.
The ratios of accidents/fatalities and injuries/fatalities obtained from both Traffic Police
and NTSC are around 1.6 and 1.5 respectively. This means that, in effect, the Traffic
Police are only reporting fatal accidents and a very small proportion of serious injury
accidents. There is some indication that even fatal accidents are not all reported. An
accident costing study in Indonesia found that fatalities were some 40% greater than
reported by Police. The assumed ratio of accidents/fatalities used in Technical Note No. 6
was 6.9 and the ratio of injuries/fatalities was 10.0. These ratios are very conservative
compared with the ratios for countries with reasonably good reporting regimes. For
example, in New Zealand, recent improvements in reporting of road accidents by the
Police gives a ratio of reported accidents/fatalities of nearly 100, a ratio of serious
injuries/fatalities of about 5, and a ratio of serious plus minor injuries/fatalities of about
25. The analysis model assumed that the ratio of accidents/fatalities was 3.0 and that of
injuries/fatalities was 10.0 in the baseline year of 2004.
The combined baseline, prediction and actual accident rates for the demonstration
corridors, together with the associated social cost, are given in Table 9.4.




                                             25
                                                               Table 9.3. Traffic Data
                                                                                                AADT (Total motorized vehicles)
NR      Chainage           Count Station           City/Town
                                                                      1997        2000       2003     2008       2009        2010        2011     2012
 1   Km 192 + 500     Phap Van - Cau Gie       Thuong Tin                                               17,650         21,938   24,957   26,660   32,336
 1   Km 221 + 000     Dong Van                 Phu Ly                                        12,000     15,867         20,946   21,789   20,165   21,863
 1   Km251 + 000      Doan Vy Bridge           Ha Nam/Ninh Binh        4,062       5,475      7,990       8,831        10,976   11,847   13,218   15,087
 1   Km 253 + 700     KCN Gian Khau            Gia Vien                                                   8,571        12,000   12,763   12,074   15,662
 1   Km 270 + 000     Yen Bridge               Ninh Binh               4,930       5,559      9,207     12,616         13,143   14,454   15,928   18,097
 1   Km 291 + 100     Bim Son                  Bim Son                                        8,000     12,869         19,178   20,044   15,806   18,291
 1   Km 299 + 260     Hà Trung                 Ha Trung                            8,188      7,612     12,829         19,596   20,473   15,894   16,579
 1   Km 323 + 000     Thanh Hoa                Thanh Hoa                                      8,000     15,259         17,031   17,844   15,329   27,200
 1   Km 366 + 300     Tinh Gia Town            Tinh Gia                                                   5,934         8,426    9,561    9,519   11,074
 1   Km 447 + 300     Quan Hanh                Nghi Loc                            5,388      7,985       6,123         6,513    7,699    6,991    7,661
 1   Km 467 + 300     Ben Thuy                 Vinh                    1,420                 10,328     12,432         13,598   15,675   11,334   19,123


 1   Km 1925 + 000    HCMC                     HCMC                                          80,000     26,439         26,828   14,792   13,542   18,444
 1   Km 1945 + 000    Tan An Town              Tan An                                        41,432     33,210         34,776   18,750   13,547   17,926
 1   Km 1967 + 500    Trung Luong T-junction   My Tho                                        36,988     26,705         35,619   18,925   12,184   12,956
 1   Km 1968 + 700    Trung Luong T-junction   My Tho                 22,167      40,955     59,998     23,561         25,449   12,783   11,478   10,089
 1   Km 2031 + 100    Vinh Long                Vinh Long                                     17,128       9,981         9,973   13,135   16,070   18,019
 1   Km 2040 + 100    Vinh Long                Vinh Long                                     17,005       8,487         9,508   11,737   14,304   17,445
 1   Km 2068 + 000    Can Tho                  Can Tho                                       20,000       9,213         9,622   11,512    9,601    9,554


51   Km 11 + 000      Toll Gate T1             Dong Nai                                                 18,229         19,198   22,565   21,637   24,705
51   Km 16 + 000      Nuoc Trong Bridge        Dong Nai               11,227      13,005     19,704     16,617         23,845   27,472   20,405   22,752
51   Km 61 +800       Long Huong               Vung Tau                8,037      11,987     15,993     11,365         12,207   14,596   15,552   13,816
51   Km 74 +000       Vung Tau                 Vung Tau                                                 14,930         13,539   16,451   18,929    8,531
Source: PAD, VRSP-C2: Consulting Services for Demonstration Corridors: Monitoring and Evaluation, CONSIA Consultants
* HCMC - Trung Luong Expressway opened in 2010 and Cau Gie – Ninh Binh Expressway opened in Nov 2011.




                                                                             26
                                  Table 9.4. Accident Rates
                                                    2001-2003       2004        2012           2012
                                                     Average       Baseline    Targeted       Achieved

 Social Cost       Total (US$ million)                      8.1        11.0             6.4         7.7
                   Cents per VKM                             19          23              11          11
 Accidents         Total                                   917        1,837         1,692        1,028
                   Rate per 100 million VKT                 22           39            29           25
 Fatalities        Total                                   553          603           358          343
                   Rate per 100 million VKT                 13           13             6            5
 Injuries          Total                                   836        6,125         3,582        7,196
                   Rate per 100 million VKT                 20          130            62          107
Source: PAD, VRSP-C2: Consulting Services for Demonstration Corridors: Monitoring and Evaluation,
CONSIA Consultants
Effect of Project Interventions
It is common practice to estimate rates of accidents of differing degrees of severity by
road type and traffic conditions. The impact of a project is then forecast on the basis of
the expected changes to road conditions and traffic volumes. However, accident
incidence on a section of road or road network, like the demonstration corridors, is very
sensitive to local conditions and design and a relatively high variability of accident
outcome from forecast is not unusual. This is partly due to the random nature of
accidents. At the appraisal stage, while there was no formal research available to show
the effect in the Vietnam environment of the interventions proposed for the Project,
estimates were made of the likely accident reduction effect based on the incidence of the
accident cause factors being addressed by the Project interventions together with
international experience of typical responses.
              Table 9.5. Best Estimated Intervention Effects Assumed in PAD
                                                                            Year
Effect of New Interventions
                                                              1         2           3       4
1. Blackspot treatments                                      3%        6%          9%     12%
2. Driver Licensing - Training/Testing/Enforcement           3%        3%          3%      3%
3.     Vehicle     Road       -     Worthiness     -         2%        2%          2%      2%
Inspection/Enforcement
4. Cycle helmet enforcement                                  10%      15%      20%        22%
5. Speed enforcement                                         10%      10%      10%        10%
6. Drink-driving                                              3%       3%       5%         5%
7. Encroachment                                               1%       1%       1%         1%
8. School Road Safety Education                               1%       1%       1%         1%
9. Emergency Medical Services                                 2%       2%       3%         4%


                                               27
In this updated analysis, the actual effects of the Project interventions measured by the
M&E Consultants are used instead of the above assumptions. Key indicators featuring the
baseline of the Project in 2004 and actual achievement of the Project in 2012 (presented
in Table 9.4) enable interpolations of data for intermediate year during project
implementation in accordance to progress of work and reimbursement.
Updated Economic Analysis Results
The updated Net Present Value (NPV) and Economic Internal Rate of Returns (EIRR) of
the Project, using very conservative accident cost values, the currently reported ratio of
injuries to fatalities and actual effects of the Project interventions at the completion of the
project (presented in Table 9.6 below) prove that VRSP is strongly viable.


                  Table 9.6. Summary of Updated Economic Analysis
                                                       At ICR
                 Indicator         At appraisal Using accident costs
                                                as in PAD by ADB
                 NPV (US$ million)      $23.13      $25.89   $20.67
                 EIRR (%)                       34%          77%        59%

By using the same methodology and model to realise projections at appraisal stage with
actual performance of the Project, both updated NPV and EIRR are higher than those at
appraisal phase, indicating that the Project is not only economically feasible but also
better than it was predicted.

By using other sources of accident costs produced by the ADB via their studies
specialised in costing accidents in Vietnam, the updated analysis confirms the robustness
of the Project.




                                              28
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
            Names                          Title                 Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
 Anthony G. Bliss          Consultant                           SASDT
Jerry Lebo                 Sr Operations Officer                 CFPTO
 Nga Thi Quynh Dang        Trust Fund Coordinator               EACVF
 Christopher J. De Serio   Operations Analyst                    EASIN
 Vinh Quoc Duong           Consultant                           EASVS
 Eva Jarawan               Lead Health Specialist               EASHH
 Hung Viet Le              Sr Financial Management Specia       EASOS
 Irina Luca                Lead Procurement Specialist          AFTPW
 Aurelio Menendez          Sector Manager                        LCSTR
 Behdad M. H. Nowroozi     Sr Financial Management Specia       MNAFM
 Maria Margarita Nunez     Sr Highway Engineer                   LCSTR
 Richard G. Scurfield      Consultant                            SASSP
 Anil H. Somani            Consultant                           EASNS
 Kien Trung Tran           Senior Procurement Specialist         EASR2
 Phuong Thi Minh Tran      Sr Transport. Spec.                  EASVS
                                                                EASSO -
Hong Vu                    Sr Operations Off.
                                                                  HIS
Mei Wang                   Senior Counsel                       LEGAM
Chaohua Zhang              Lead Social Development Specialist    SASDS
Supervision/ICR
Andre A. Bald              Sr Urban Spec.                       AFTU1
Paul Vallely               Sr Transport Specialist              EASVS
Hanh Thi Huu Nguyen        Financial Management Specialist      EASFM
Reda Hamedoun              Transport Specialist                  EASIN
Anthony G. Bliss           Consultant                           SASDT
Christopher J. De Serio    Operations Analyst                    EASIN
Fei Deng                   Sr Transport. Spec.                   EASIN
Vinh Quoc Duong            Consultant                           EASVS
Dung Anh Hoang             Sr Transport. Spec.                  EASVS
Hung Viet Le               Sr Financial Management Specia       EASOS
Irina Luca                 Lead Procurement Specialist          AFTPW
                                                                EASTE -
Simon Lucas                Sr Transport. Spec.
                                                                  HIS
Lan Thi Thu Nguyen         Natural Resources Economist          EASVS
Hoang Xuan Nguyen          Procurement Specialist                EASR2
Trang Phuong Thi Nguyen    E T Consultant                       EASVS
Thuy Thi Bich Nguyen       Team Assistant                       EACVF
Anna R. Okola              Transport. Engineer                  LCSTR
William D. O. Paterson     Consultant                           EASNS
Cung Van Pham              Sr Financial Management Specia       EASFM

                                                29
Emmanuel Py               Infrastructure Specialist           EASWE
Nguyen Chien Thang        Senior Procurement Specialist        EASRP
Phuong Thi Minh Tran      Sr Transport. Spec.                 EASVS
Van Anh Thi Tran          Sr Transport. Spec.                 EASVS
Ha Thuy Tran              Financial Management Specialis      EASFM
Thao Phuong Tuong         Team Assistant                      EACVF
                                                              EASSO -
Hong Vu                   Sr Operations Off.
                                                                HIS
Ly Thi Dieu Vu            Consultant                          EASNS


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                          27.79                     75.50
  FY05                                          40.15                    106.36
                          Total:                67.94                    181.86
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                          17.85                     25.95
  FY07                                          19.4                      38.83
  FY08                                          18.12                     50.52
  FY09                                          22.31                     47.92
  FY10                                          21.24                     39.54
  FY11                                          25.65                     51.41
  FY12                                          20.63                     45.88
  FY13                                          21.61                     53.01
                          Total:               166.81                    397.41




                                           30
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)




                                      31
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)




                                   32
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

I.       Summary of Borrower’s ICR


1. Performance Indicators:

The key performance indicators served to monitor the outcome of the VRSP. Most of
these factors were calculated according to international standards to be able to compare
the road safety situation between different countries. In Vietnam the key indicators for
the road victims were collected from the Traffic Police. At the end of the project the
accident situation on the corridors had improved.

The accident risk has gone down to 63% of the initial value as a result of fewer accidents
despite increasing traffic. The risks of severe injury went initially up but are now at 89%
of the initial value. This figure is also a result of better reporting of accidents. The risk of
being killed in traffic on the corridors declined to 58% of the initial value.

This is a strong indication that there is a better reporting of injuries in accidents, a
number that had been severely under reported. In the future, the introduction of NRADS
will improve the monitoring of the data collection as part of the VRSP2.

2. Evaluation of interventions on the pilot corridors:

Implementation should carried out carefully. The preparation took a lot of time due to the
combination of different agencies. The coordination mechanism of the project should
have been clear and specific. The staffs of the management agencies should be trained
before implementing projects to ensure capacity building. The differences in
implementation procedures need to be clarified and showed clearly in the credit
agreement to avoid delays in implementation.

3. Lessons learned


        Project design:

VRSP is the first large scale standalone road safety project to be prepared in Vietnam and
elsewhere in the world. It was complicated by too many coordination activities of
different agencies, which led to inconsistencies. There was a lack of leadership with has
enough capacity and power. The project was a problem project according to the World
Bank.

In order to be restored to normal status, to improve the project progress NTSC
restructured the project by changing the project leader, delegation of authority of
subPMU, changes in TSPMU. Capacity of NTSC was strengthened by the decree No. 32.



                                              33
    The splitting of components and resources was not reasonable (consulting
     services, goods, training...), which led to the lack of the flexibility and harmony in
     the coordination of the project funds.
    The provisions on local tax, domestic spending and foreign spending was not
     clear and should be defined before bidding to impact the preparation of
     counterpart funding for the project.
    The project design did not perfectly assess the typical agenices specialization in
     Vietnam.

      Implementation:

    The implementation agency did not assign enough staff for project management,
     which led to the long preparation of procedures due to the lack of knowledge of
     WB requirements.
    The sub-PMU staffs did not work full time on the project and lacked knowledge
     of WB procedures for procurement and approval.
    The evaluation procedures of both Vietnam and WB are long due to the
     discrepancies in procedures. The project was implemented on some pilot corridors,
     but the intervention specifications were minimal.
    The procedures, packages splits and bidding methods were not appropriate,
     leading to implementation delays.

4. Evaluation of the effectiveness of the borrower in the preparation and
   implementation of activities:


      Capacity building:

    NTSC restructured the project to change the project leader and delegated
     authority to the sub PMU.
    A road traffic safety strategy was formulated.
    Mechanisms, procedures, and equipment for NTSC were provided to ensure
     coordination activities in traffic safety.
    Staffs were trained to implement Traffic Safety activities for NTSC, study tours in
     Europe were organized to get meaningful experience for committee staffs and
     members of the Committee.
    More than 300 Traffic Safety Auditors for the Directorate for Road of Vietnam in
     the technical audit of traffic safety on the Highways were trained. Training
     materials and training teachers were developed to pursue auditor training courses
     in the future.
    Approximately 1400 staffs of MOH and traffic police were trained in first-aid for
     traffic accidents.
    900 teachers at all levels were trained on teaching road safety in schools.
    The Road Accident database system was established over the country, including
     63 provinces, and 508 district Police station with nearly 2,000 police officers and
     soldiers.


                                           34
      A monitoring system to test motor vehicle and register them nationwide was
       established.
      Driving license management system for DRVN was developed in 63 provinces
       over the country.

        The interventions in Traffic Safety:

      Black spots treatment on 3 demonstration corridors (Ha Noi - Vinh; Ho Chi Minh
       City - Can Tho; Dong Nai - Ninh Thuan), including 38 black spots. At the end of
       the project, after all the black spots on 3 demonstration corridors were treated, the
       number of traffic accidents reduced so much that there were not any serious
       traffic accidents. Specifically, the number of traffic accidents before treatment
       (2005 - 2007) was 319; traffic accident after treatment (3/2011- so far) was26
       cases.
      Pilot training support system equipment for driving & testing schools in Chi Linh
       District, Hai Duong Province. The system supported training centers for drivers
       training.
      Equipment to address data, vehicle management, and pilot technical standard
       testing equipment of the mobile vehicle to support monitoring the situation of
       vehicles in use after registration. The system has been piloted in the main bus
       stations in Ha Noi and Ho Chi Minh City (My Dinh, Mien Tay) and the 3
       demonstration corridors of the project to check the status of vehicles.
      Raising awareness for road users by different methods to consider and review the
       effectiveness of each method.
      Teaching facilities for schools on the 3 demonstration corridors including books
       and documentation for teachers and other teaching facilities for teaching traffic
       safety for all educational levels (159.620 material books and 5.040 posters for
       preschool, 1.321.260 books for primary school level, 138.130 books for
       secondary school level, 51.040 books for high school level, 34.520 books for
       tertiary education level). These documents have been delivered to 12 Departments
       of Education and Training (DOET) and 46 Divisions of Education and MOET.
      467 emergency materials were provided in the 3 demonstration to 76 institutions,
       including: 12 hospitals, 9 province general hospitals, 3 emergency centers, 27
       district hospitals and 14 municipal medical stations.

5.       Implementation:


        During the first stage of project implementation (2006 - 2008), the
         implementation was very slow due to lack of resources, leadership and
         management mechanisms. However, in 2009, NTSC had strong organization
         adjustments. The project was put on normal project status afterwards and could be
         successfully implemented.
        The borrower was very active and tried to coordinate all the activities of many
         different agencies. Need to continue to enhance the capacity of staffs for traffic
         safety implementation.


                                                35
         The awareness campaigns and teachings on traffic safety were very effective, and
          should be expanded and developed in the future.

6. Bank performance:

         The World Bank had an effective team with regards to the coordination,
          preparation and supervision of project implementation. However, the
          implementation still faced to difficulties due to unreasonable project design.
         The review of submitted documents took a long time due to project design, and
          complexity of procedure.
         Procedures should be adjusted and comments should be given in a timely manner.
         Better define project evaluation indicators in the future: the indicators could not
          be measured and surveyed, therefore it was very difficult to evaluate the
          effectiveness of the implementation of the project.



II.       Comments on Draft ICR

Editorial comments were provided; ICR text has been revised to address these comments.




                                              36
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    37
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


   1.    VRSP Project Appraisal Document
   2.    VRSP Development Credit Agreement
   3.    Mission Aide Memoires
   4.    Implementation Status Reports
   5.    Midterm Review
   6.    Borrower Implementation Completion Report




                                      38
MAP




      39
