Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23572-ALB
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 24 MILLION
(US$ 29.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
ALBANIA
FOR THE
POWER SECTORT REHABILITATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
MAY 20, 2002
Infrastructure and Energy Services Department
Albania/South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 2002)
Currency Unit = Lek
Lek I = US$0.0069
US$1.00 = Lek 145
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EBRD          European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIB           European Investment Bank
EMP           Environmental Management Plan
ERE           Electricity Regulatory Authority
EU            European Union
FMR           Financial Monitoring Report
GPRS          Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           Intemational Development Association
KESH          Albanian Power Corporation
KfW           Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LIBOR         London Interbank Offered Rate
N.B.F.        Non-Bank Financed
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NGO           Non-Government Organization
PCBs          Polychorinated Byphenyls
PMU           Project Management Unit
QCBS          Quality and Cost-Based Selection
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
USTDA         United States Trade and Development Agency
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:  Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:   Henk Busz
Task Team Leader:   Iftikhar Khalil



ALBANIA
POWER SECTOR REHABILITATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 10
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 11
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      12
3. Benefits and target population                                                     14
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      16
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                           1 7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         18
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                20
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   20
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        21
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           21
2. Financial                                                                          22
3. Technical                                                                          25
4. Institutional                                                                      26
5. Environmental                                                                      27
6. Social                                                                             28
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 30
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     31



2. Critical risks                                                                     31
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     33
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           33
2. Other                                                                              33
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         34
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        34
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Surnmary                                                        35
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   39
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        41
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          42
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    58
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       62
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     75
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   76
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  77
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            79
Annex 11: Procedures for Land Acquisition                                                81
MAP(S)
IBRD 31775 Albania: Power Sector Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project



ALBANIA
Power Sector Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Infrastructure and Energy Unit
Date: May 20, 2002                               Team Leader: Iftikhar Khalil
Country Manager/Director: Christiaan .1. Poortman  Sector Manager/Director: Henk Busz
Project ID: P074905                              Sector(s): PP - Electric Power & Other E.nergy Adjustment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Energy
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
;oJ'ct Financing Data
[ i Loan    [X] Credit    [1 Grant     [ ] Guarantee    1 Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $29.90
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                        Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.50% on undisbursed credit balances  Service charge: 0.75%
beginning 60 days after signing less any w aiver.
F,inahci,ng P,lan (USS n)-  ' Source x"                    Local       --Foreig'n       Total
BORROWER                                                      5.16           0.00          5.16
IDA                                                           0.00          29.90         29.90
Total:                                                        5.16          29.90         35.06
Borrower: ALBANIA
Responsible agency: ALBANIAN POWER CORPORATION (KESH)
Address: Blloku Vasil Shanto, Tirana, Albania
Contact Person: Dr. Gazmend Daci, Director of Planning and Engineering
Tel: 355 42 345 01          Fax: 355 42 345 01           Email: pmu-ptdp@KESH.com.al
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/LIS$m):
.; --2003 -   . 7,2004 -  .2005-..-.'' .20066   .'-
Annual      4.00     12.60       9.80      3.50
Cumulative     4.00     16.60      26.40     29.90
Project implementation period: 10/01,/02 to 09/30/05
Expected effectiveness date: 09/30/2002  Expected closing, date:  03/31/2006
OM PADO F.-vR, 0



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the project is to achieve significant improvement in the operational
effectiveness of the power sector through: (a) implementation of electricity loss reduction
measures; (b) enforcement of billing, collection and disconnection policies; (c) introduction of
electricity price rationalization measures; (d) priority investments to improve system supply and
reliability; and (e) initiation of regulatory strengthening and sector restructuring measures to
improve sector efficiency and establish the preconditions for competition and privatization.
Background. At the beginning of Albania's economic transition in the early 1990's, the country
was virtually 100% electrified and was a net electricity exporter. However, while the three
hydropower plants of the Drin River Cascade, which produced over 85% of total electricity
supply, were in reasonably good condition, the Fier thermal power plant and the transmission and
distribution systems were badly run down because of previous neglect of maintenance, and there
were frequent power outages due to overloading of facilities, which frequently caused explosions
in transformers. Demand within Albania fell initially to 79% of the 1989 level by 1992 because of
declines in industrial production. Thereafter it rose by 10.4 % per year to 6,160 GWh in 2000.
This increase was due mainly to a sustained surge in consumption, much of which was illegal, by
households and small commercial establishments. The quality of electricity supply was improved
temporarily by emergency repairs financed by donors, including IDA, but most of the required
rehabilitation and expansion of facilities has yet to be made.
By 1998, Albania had become a net electricity importer and, by the second half of 2000, a serious
electricity shortage had set in, partly as a result of a fall in hydropower production caused by
reduced river flows. This shortage has involved frequent and prolonged load shedding (i.e.,
deliberate partial cut-off of electricity because of insufficient supply). The demand estimate of
6,160 GWh in 2000 includes 450 GWh of load shedding. In 2001, demand grew by only 3.8% to
6,395, but net imports jumped by 75% to reach 1,750 GWh and load shedding increased to 994
GWh. The country has been unable to get all the imported electricity it needs because of
transmission constraints (which, however, are expected to be eased soon as a result of donor
investments) and financial constraints.
The Albanian Power Corporation (KESH) is unable to pay for more than a small proportion of
the imports needed out of its own resources because of financial difficulties caused by widespread
illegal use of electricity, poor collection of electricity bills, and retail electricity prices which are
below the cost of imported electricity. Faced with these difficulties, the Government has been
providing a subsidy, but its large level (US$ 31.5 million equivalent in 2001) is diverting funds
from other critical needs. Government budgetary considerations require a gradual reduction in
the subsidy for imports, and load shedding is expected to continue for several years.
The electricity crisis is having a multiple adverse impact on the poor. There is the direct impact in
that frequent and prolonged load shedding deprives them of light, space heating and cooking fuel,
thereby adversely affecting their quality of life and their health, as well as restricting their access
to education. Secondly, by diverting budgetary resources to electricity imports, it diverts funds
- 2 -



from the poverty reduction efforts. Thirdly, it adversely affects economic growth, which is
recognized to be the main instrument to reduce poverty in Albania.
The failure to adequately address the power sector's failings led to the suspension in 1997 of
donor support for the Drin River Cascade Rehabilitation Project (cofinanced by EBRD, Austria,
Italy, Japan and Switzerland) and the suspension in 1998 of IDA and other donor disbursements
for the Power Transmission and Distribution Project (cofinanced by IDA through Credit No.
2826-ALB, EBRD, Italy, Japaan and Switzerland). These were the two main donor-financed
operations in the power sector in Albania at the time apart from Italian support for distribution
system rehabilitation in Tirana. Donor activities related to the Drin River Cascade Rehabilitation
Project were restarted in 2000 following the establishment of a contract with Enel (Italy) to
provide management assistance to KESH.
Activities related to the Power Transmission and Distribution Project were restarted in 2001
following the successful initial implementation by the Government and KESH of a two-year
Action Plan to tackle the critical issues of the sector. Part of the remaining amount of the IDA
credit was reallocated to provide financing for household meters and an Energy Sector Study.
The study includes preparation of: (i) electricity demand projections to 2015, (ii) a least-cost
power generation investment program covering the same period, (iii) a power transmission master
plan, (iv) a plan for reduction in technical and non-technical power losses in transmission and
distribution, (v) a power dispatch plan, (vi) a power distribution master plan, (vii) an evaluation of
the potential for district heating, (viii) an evaluation of the technical and economic feasibility of
imported natural gas, (ix) a petroleum strategy, (x) an overall investment plan and financing
options, (xi) electricity tariff reform based on long run marginal cost estimates, and (xii)
recommendations for energy sector restructuring.
The successful initial implementation of the two-year Action Plan made possible the start of
preparation of the proposed project, as well as the resumption of disbursements under the Power
Transmission and Distribution Project. The proposed project is contingent on continued success
in implementation of this plan.
The Government initiated a program of sector reform in late 1995 by passing legislation providing
for establishment of an electricity regulatory agency, unbundling and corporatization of the power
sector, and the beginning of privatization. However, progress in implementing the reform process
was slow and the process was suspended in 1997 following large-scale civil disturbances triggered
by the collapse of several pyrarnid schemes.  Believing that interest by foreigners in buying into
the power sector would be low until the political situation stabilized, the Government, with the
support of IDA, then turned its attention to the competitive selection of a foreign utility to take
over temporary management of KESH through a management contract. However, this initiative
did not gain the support of all the donors. Eventually it was agreed to have a more limited
management assistance contracit under which a team from a foreign utility would provide advice
to senior KESH management on a day to day basis (the above mentioned contract to Enel). The
sector reform process is now starting up again, focusing initially on strengthening the regulatory
agency and restructuring KESB. The proposed project would support this reform process.
- 3 -



2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators of the project are: (i) reduction in load shedding; (ii) reduction in
power transmission and distribution losses (technical and non-technical) to specified target levels;
(iii) improvement in electricity bill collection to specified target levels; (iv) reduction in
outstanding bills of government budgetary and non-budgetary entities to KESH to specified target
levels; (v) improvement in KESH's self-financing ratio to specified target levels; (vi) reduction of
the Government subsidy to KESH in accordance with the agreed annually updated two-year
action plan; and (vii) implementation of the first phase of a power sector reform program.
If successful, the proposed investments under the project and the policy actions supported by it
would have a significant beneficial impact on the economy by contributing to: continued operation
of factories and other businesses, a large reduction in unpaid-for electricity demand, an
improvement in electricity supply quality and reliability in the regions served by the rehabilitated
electricity networks, the reduction and possible ending of government subsidies for electricity
imports, and a significant improvement in the financial performance of the power sector and,
hence, a reduction in the quasi-fiscal deficit (estimated at around US$ 200 million for 2001)
associated with current power sector activities. The policy actions supported by the project
would also strengthen the power sector regulatory framework and begin the sector restructuring
that would eventually lead to a competitive commercial market and privatization.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R2000-20   Date of latest CAS discussion: 03/21/00
Albania's last full CAS (IDA/R98-109) was discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on
July 30, 1998. A CAS Progress Report (IDA/R2000-20) was discussed by the Executive
Directors on March 21, 2000. A Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS) was prepared
by the Albanian Government and finalized in November 2001. The GPRS (including a May 2002
update of the macro-fiscal framework and an IDA-IMF Joint Staff Assessment of the GPRS) and
a new CAS based on this Strategy will be presented to the Board in June 2002, at the same time
as this operation. Both the GPRS and the new CAS emphasize the macroeconomic impact of the
crisis in the power sector, its major impact on the poor, and the critical importance of both
addressing the underlying causes of the crisis and of meeting priority investments. This requires a
wide range of measures, including those related to reduction of illegal electricity consumption,
effective collection of electricity bills, and initiation of regulatory strengthening and sector
restructuring measures.  The project was not foreseen in the 1998 CAS, but was added
subsequently after Albania started experiencing a severe electricity shortage which threatened its
economic prospects, and the Government began to successfully implement a two-year Action Plan
to tackle the underlying issues of the sector. This plan was prepared with the participation of the
international donors to the power sector and received their endorsement. The project objectives
are in line with the objectives of the GPRS and those of the new CAS.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
There are five main issues: (i) a serious and growing electricity shortage; (ii) extensive unbilled
consumption of electricity and non-payment of bills; (iii) willingness/ability of consumers to pay
- 4 -



for electricity; (iv) power company financial difficulties; and (v) stalled power sector reform.
A serious and growing electr icity shortage. Although Albania was until a few years ago a net
exporter of electricity, conditions in the power sector have deteriorated, and Albania has been
facing a severe electricity shontage since the summer of 2000. The crisis is the result of excessive
demand caused largely by the chronic failure to curb illegal use of electricity and non--payment of
bills, and the impact of less favorable hydrology on the predominantly hydropower-based system.
The excessive demand is both, causing overloading of the transmission and distribution systems
and obliging KESH to resort to imported electricity. The amount of electricity that can be
imported is constrained by limitations of the transmission network, thereby necessitating extensive
load shedding.
Hydropower generation by KESH in the year 2001 was 3,547 GWh. This was much lower than
the 4,593 GWh generated in 2000 and the 5,000 to 5,300 GWh generated in the previous two
years, but slightly higher thana the average over the period 1990-94. KESH's thermal power
generation was only 137 GWh in 2001, plant use was 33 GWh and KESH had net imports of
1,750 GWh. There was also load shedding of 994 GWh bringing total demand to 6,395 GWh.
The situation is likely to remain difficult and could even deteriorate if the hydrological conditions
experienced in 2001 continue or worsen, and demand grows. Current estimates for 2002 are for
domestic generation of 4,150 GWh and imports of 1,500 GWh.
Some reduction in load shedding may be expected as a result of investments under way to ease
transmission bottlenecks which limit the amount of electricity that can be imported. However,
general overloading of the transmission and distribution networks as a result of growing demand
and decades of inadequate investments for maintenance and strengthening will result in continued
unscheduled power outages until substantial transmission and distribution rehabilitation and
strengthening investments are carried out. Some such investments are about to be implemented
by cofinanciers of the Power 1'ransmission and Distribution Project (Credit No. 2826-ALB).
The need for electricity imporl:s will continue indefinitely unless demand is greatly reduced and/or
supply is greatly increased. The reduction of growth in electricity demand (unless economic
growth slows) depend largely on success in reducing the amount of electricity consumers take for
free through illegal use and non-payment of bills and in encouraging the use of other forms of
energy, such as LPG, particularly for space heating. To the extent that consumers are obliged to
pay for their consumption, they are likely to use less electricity by economizing or switching to
other forms of energy. While these demand management measures could halt the rapid growth in
demand and even bring aboul a decline over several years, there would still be a large need for
imported electricity, even under optimistic demand-reduction scenarios. Imports are currently
less expensive than new domestic power generation, but the continued availability of large
quantities of imported electricity at low prices is uncertain. Therefore new domestic generation
should be considered, especially since it will take a long time to bring it into production.
Supply could be increased modestly and fairly quickly by rehabilitating the 159 MW Fier thermal
power station, which has been operating at very low levels, and increased substantially by
constructing new power stations. At present there is no new power station under construction,
-5-



and since a new plant would likely take a number of years to build, there will probably be no
significant sustained increase in Albanian electricity production before 2005.  Domestic
hydropower generation will depend upon hydrology and will vary significantly from year to year.
Adding thermal power generation is therefore highly desirable to reduce dependence on domestic
hydropower and imports.
Unbilled consumption of electricity and non-payment of bills. Unbilled consumption of
electricity (illegal use due to tampering with meters or bypassing them, and consumption by
customers without meters in excess of billed levels) and non-payment of electricity bills grew
rapidly during the 1990s through the year 2000. During 2000, KESH's power transmission and
distribution losses were 43.4% of electricity supplied to the grid, of which about 20 percentage
points were "non-technical losses," and collections were 61.5% of billings. During 2001, which
was the first year of implementation of a two-year action plan (see "Government Strategy"
below), KESH's power transmission and distribution losses fell to 38% of electricity supplied to
the grid, of which about 14 percentage points were "non-technical losses." In the same year, bill
collection improved to 84.5%, including payments of arrears relating to previous years' bills.
The lack of progress before 2001 in tackling the problem relating to illegal use and non-payment
can be attributed to a number of causes. The widespread extent of the problem is such that it
requires strong and sustained action by the Government as well as KESH. Unfortunately the
Government was unwilling and unable to take such action until recently. One of the major
contributing factors was the lack of appreciation on the part of the Government of the seriousness
of the problem, despite the wamrungs repeatedly conveyed by IDA and other donors. This
stemmed largely from the fact that Albania had a relatively abundant supply of cheap hydropower
and, even with the excessive demand growth, Albania was a net exporter of electricity until 1998,
and KESH was not facing significant financial difficulties despite the high electricity losses and
low collections. This lack of appreciation was compounded by a succession of political and social
crises (the widespread unrest following the collapse of several pyramid schemes in 1997, the
Kosovo conflict of 1998-99), which diverted the Government's attention to relatively more
pressing issues.
Willingness/ability to pay for electricity. Residential electricity consumption increased from
less than 400 kWh per household per year in 1989 to nearly 4,000 kWh (including estimated
unbilled consumption) in 2000 and 2001. Electricity is the highest quality but costliest source of
energy for most household uses. This increase suggests that Albanian households have enjoyed a
rapid and large improvement in well being. Recent estimates for other jurisdictions are: Annenia
- 1,600 kWh, Croatia - 3,500 kWh, Kosovo - 5,300 kWh, Moldova - 800 kWh, Lithuania 1,400
kWh, and Latvia - 1,600 kWh. These estimates are not directly comparable since these
jurisdictions differ in relevant variables such as per capita income, availability of low-cost
altemative sources of energy, climate and the number of persons per household (Kosovo's high
level is partly due to very large household sizes). Nevertheless, they provide confirmation for the
conclusion that Albanian households consume unusually high amounts of electricity for their
relatively low incomes. The increase in Albania was due to widespread switching to electricity for
space heating, water heating and cooking from other forms of energy such as wood and kerosene,
and to the acquisition of many new appliances. To the extent that bill collection is improved,
- 6 -



non-technical losses are reduced and electricity prices are raised to cost-covering levels,
household consumers will have to pay an increased amount for electricity. As a result, there will
likely be some reduction in household electricity consumption as consumers switch to cheaper
alternatives or find ways of conserving energy. Some low-income consumers may find it difficult
to pay for the minimum amotunt of electricity and other energy needed to meet the most basic
requirements for decent living. A household survey to be carried out under the Power
Transmission and Distribution Project will evaluate the affordability of electricity and other forms
of energy and make recommendations on the most appropriate subsidy mechanism for
low-income consumers.
Public sector consumers also have difficulty paying their electricity bills. As of December 31,
2001, the total debt of public sector consumers to KESH was Lek 5.4 billion (US$ 39 million)
compared to the debt to KESH of household consumers of Lek 11.3 billion (US$ 81 million).
The water supply companies pay for very little of their electricity consumption, since water prices
do not cover costs and these companies have poor collection rates. Several large state-owned
industrial companies also have difficulties paying KESH because of their own poor commercial
performance. Pending a strengthening of the financial performance of the delinquent public sector
enterprises, it will be necessary for the Government itself to pay KESH on their behalf, for current
bills as well as arrears in some cases, as foreseen in the two-year Action Plan (see "Government
Strategy" below).
Power sector financial difficulties. Until 1997, KESH's operating costs were low since nearly
all its electricity production came from hydropower plants, and it had hardly any debt service
obligations. Since then KESH's costs have increased steeply as a result of the need to import
rapidly increasing amounts of electricity.  Moreover the revenue from sale of the imported
electricity falls far short of the cost. Nearly 40% of the imported electricity disappears through
high power transmission and distribution losses and the rest is sold at an average price per kWh
which is less than the import price (including tax). In addition, prior to 2001, less than two-thirds
of the amount billed to final consumers was paid. In 2000, KESH earned an after-tax profit, but
only because it received a subsidy of US$ 25 million equivalent from the Government for the
purchase of imported electricity. In 2001, with steeply increased electricity imports but a
proportionately lower import subsidy received from the Govenunent, KESH incurred a loss of
about US$ 4 niillion equivalent. Even if KESH succeeds in improving its financial position by
achieving the large reductions in illegal use of electricity and improvements in bill collection that it
has planned for (see "Governrent Strategy" below), the need for subsidies is expected to remain
at least through 2004.
The Power Corporations of Elbasan, Shkoder and Vlore (see the next paragraph) have
experienced financial difficult'ies since their creation as "privatized" entities in 1995 as a result of
their inability to reduce non-technical losses and improve bill collection. Elbasan's performance
has been the best of the three and comparable to that of KESH. Shkoder and Vlore were severely
affected by the civil disturbances which followed the collapse of the pyramid schemes in 1997. In
2001, Elbasan paid 81% of the amount billed to it by KESH, Shkoder only 2% and Vlore 25%.
Stalled power sector reformn. During preparation of the Power Transmission and Distribution
- 7-



Project, the Albanian Government, with assistance from the Bank, began the process of reforming
the power sector. A comprehensive Regulatory Law was enacted in 1995, and in mid-1996 the
Electricity Regulatory Authority (ERE) was established. In August 1995, Parliament approved an
Electricity Law providing for unbundling and possible privatization of the power sector and
involvement of independent power producers, and a Law on Privatization of the Electrical Power
Department providing for privatization of the power sector beginning with distribution. In
October 1995, the municipal power distribution enterprises of Elbasan, Shkoder and Vlore were
separated from KESH and converted to joint stock companies in accordance with the Law on the
Transformation of State Enterprises into Joint-Stock Companies (effective May 15, 1995). The
objective was to privatize these companies quickly as a pilot experiment and then to privatize the
rest of distribution. KESH itself was also converted to a joint-stock company. In October 1995,
Parliament approved a law requiring that at least 30% of the shares of a privatized power sector
entity be sold through the mass privatization program and at least 30% of the shares be reserved
for a strategic investor. From November 15 to December 20, 1995, 30% of the shares of
Elbasan, Shkoder and Vlore were auctioned in exchange for vouchers. However, these shares
were dispersed among many purchasers, so that no shareholder apart from the Government was
able to exercise much influence on the management of these corporations.
There was a delay of about half a year by the Government in finalizing the contract with the
consultants selected to assist in privatization of the three pilot companies and the rest of the
distribution enterprises. By the time this contract was signed in early 1997, widespread civil
unrest had started as a result of the collapse of several pyramid schemes. Progress on reform was
then suspended. The Government (and IDA) judged that interest by foreigners in buying into the
power sector would be low until the political situation stabilized. The privatization consultants
then commenced work on preparing the bidding documents for a foreign power utility to take
over temporary management of KESH and the three "pilot" companies through a management
contract. However, this initiative did not gain the support of all the donors. Eventually it was
agreed to have a more limited management assistance contract under which a team from a foreign
utility would provide advice to senior KESH management on a day to day basis. This contract
was awarded to Enel, who commenced work in September 2000. It has a duration of 18 months
with the possibility of an extension of six months. Enel has made contributions in many areas,
such as reorganization of KESH, establishment of computerized billing, tariff reform, and
preparation of the initial two-year Action Plan and the January 2002 update.
In 2000, ownership of the Government's shares in the Power Corporations of Elbasan, Shkoder
and Vlore was transferred to KESH as the first step towards reabsorbing the pilots into KESH.
The distribution functions of these corporations will soon be taken over by KESH. The ERE still
exists, but until recently had inadequate staff and other resources and was not allowed to exercise
the full powers envisaged for it under the law. However, its situation is beginning to improve.
The ERE is now financing its operations from fees paid by the licensees, has been increasing its
staff, and is gradually playing a more significant regulatory role.
Government strategy. Recognizing the magnitude of the power sector crisis and its serious
implications, the Government developed in late 2000 a two-year Action Plan to tackle the critical
issues. The plan includes measures to reduce electricity losses, improve collections and reduce
- 8 -



demand, as well as other wide-ranging measures to urgently improve the performance of the
sector. Implementation was successful during the first year of operation, with the targets being
achieved. The power losses of KESH were reduced from 43.4% in 2000 to 38.0% in 2001
(target 41%), and bill collection improved from 61.6% to 84.5% (target 80%). Collected revenue
increased by 70%. The January 2002 revised plan covering 2002 and 2003 is designecl to reduce
losses for KESH and the pilot corporations by 3 percentage points in each of 2002 and 2003, and
to improve collections of KESH and the pilots to 90% in 2002 and 92% in 2003. In 2001, the
combined losses for KESH and the pilots were 44.7% of electricity entering KESH's transmission
system and the combined collections were 82% of billings. Specific targets for each quarter have
been defined as well. Achievement of the targets for KESH including the pilots, together with a
projected increase in the average tariff level (net of value added tax) from 4 Lek/kWh (2.9 c/kWh)
in 2001 to 5.4 Lek/kWh (3.9 c/kWh) in 2002, would result in the collected revenue increasing by
32%, thereby reducing the quasi-fiscal deficit by 12%.
The Government has also been developing a longer-term sector strategy. In late 2000, the
Minister of Public Economy and Privatization appointed a special task force with members from
the Ministry, the National Agency of Energy, the Albania-EU Energy Efficiency Center and
KESH, to prepare a strategic action plan to reform the power sector. With the assistance of
consultants financed by USAII), the task force presented its report on February 28, 2001. The
report provides a list of recomnnendations to strengthen the ERE, unbundle KESH, establish rules
for a new commercial energy market, and eventually privatize the power sector, beginning with
distribution, next with generation, and finally with partial privatization of transmission. The same
consultants assisted in the preparation of a Power Sector Policy Statement (see Sections B3 and
C2) and will help to prepare new draft electricity legislation.
In parallel, the Government and KESH have been making efforts to find financing for new power
plants. China has offered to provide loan financing for the 80 MW Bushati hydropower station on
the Drin River, with average annual production of 350 GWh and an estimated cost of US$ 150
million. The terms and conditions of this offer are currently being examined by the CGovernment
and KESH. KESH has also awarded a contract to GE Hydro (Norway) to review power
generation options in Albania and identify financing options for new generation plants. The
Government has also asked the Bank to assist in arranging donor financing for a new 100 MW
thennal power plant. The Bank, EBRD and EIB have indicated interest in the possible
co-financing of such a power plant. A feasibility study for the thermal power plant is being
undertaken with USTDA financing.
-9-



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project would address all of the above issues. It would include investments and
other measures aimed at reducing the energy shortage (the first issue). It would contain detailed
measures to achieve selected power loss reduction, bill collection and arrears reduction targets
(the second issue). Steps would be taken to alleviate the burden of high electricity costs on
low-income consumers (the third issue). The financial performance of KESH would improve as a
result of meeting those targets as well as through tariff increases and improvements in internal
efficiency through such measures as reducing technical power losses and the number of employees
(the fourth issue). Finally, Board presentation is conditional on the adoption of power sector
reforms set out in the Power Sector Policy Statement (expected to be adopted by the Government
in April 2002) leading to improved sector regulation, competition and privatization (the fifth
issue).
The reforms identified in the Policy Statement expected to be carried out during the period of
project implementation would include: consolidation of energy policy matters within the new
Ministry of Industry and Energy; preparation of a comprehensive national energy strategy that
would be updated annually; measures to strengthen the ERE; measures to improve cost recovery
by KESH and the subsequently unbundled power enterprises; measures to ease the impact of
electricity tariff rate increases on low-income consumers; demand side management measures;
measures to restructure KESH, corporatize and commercialize the unbundled generation,
transmission and distribution enterprises; establishment of rules for operation of a new commercial
electricity market; improvements in the legal framework for privatization; preparation of a
privatization strategy; and issue of tenders for sale of the power distribution enterprises. These
reforms would provide the basis for privatization and the introduction of competition in the power
sector. The remaining steps to be taken following project completion would include: completion
of privatization of the power distribution and generation enterprises; allowing third party access to
the transmissiorr and distribution systems; and integration with the Southeast Europe Regional
Electricity Market. The overall program is ambitious. If unanticipated difficulties are incurred in
implementing the privatization of distribution or generation, the target dates set out in the Policy
Statement may require adjustment.
In moving forward with its power sector reform program, the Government has made a number of
strategic choices relating to the regulation, structure and ownership of the power industry, and the
commercial market model, and will need to make further strategic choices.
a.    Regulation. Existing legislation already provides for an independent regulator to reduce
the interference of the Government, minimize the politicization of key sector decisions, bring
transparency into the regulatory process, and balance the interests of various stakeholders such as
customers, govemment, investors, financiers and lenders, suppliers, employees and the people of
Albania. The Government has decided to more fully carry out the intention of the regulatory law
by taking actions to increase the independence, powers and resources of the ERE.
b.    Structure. - KESH is being reorganized into a reduced number of separate generation,
transmission and distribution units from the previous 48 units, excluding the three pilots (see
Section E.4. 1). Further consolidation will be considered. Since optimal reservoir operation
- 10 -



would require close coordination of power production at the three power stations on the Drin
River, it is likely that these three plants will be kept within a single generating company. Given
the small size of Albania's electricity market, it will probably be desirable to limit the number of
distribution companies to three or less.
c.    Privatization. The program provides for privatization of the power distribution and
generation companies, but the transmission company may be kept under state ownership.
Conceming the sequence of privatization, the Policy Statement proposes privatization of
distribution first since this is likely to be the best solution to reducing non-technical power losses
and improving the quality and ieliability of power supply and customer service. Generation will
be privatized next. Majority shares in each of the distribution and generating companies are
expected to be sold through a bidding process to pre-qualified strategic investors from abroad
(experienced power utilities).
d.    Commercial market mcdel. The choice of market model in the Albanian context requires
several strategic decisions. The Policy Statement provides during an initial period for KESH as
holding company of the other power enterprises to act as the "single buyer" responsible for
ensuring an adequate supply of electricity (which would mean giving it responsibility for operating
the reservoirs, importing electricity and arranging for new power plants). Later the transmission
company will perform this role. Eventually, the market participants will be allowed to enter into
bilateral contracts. Third parcy access will be provided to the transmission and (listribution
systems. Decisions will need to be made as to which final consumers would be allowed to choose
their own electricity suppliers.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project has three components. The largest consists of rehabilitation and strengthening of the
transmission and distribution systems in the Durres, Elbasan and Kucova regions. These systems
have frequent unscheduled outages and high technical losses because of overloading and worn out
equipment, and they have not benefited up to now from donor-financed investments. This project
component was chosen on the basis of a technical, economic and environmental feasibility study
carried out by Harza Engineering Company International L. P., with financing by the United
States Trade and Development Agency.
The second largest component consists of the provision and installation of secure boxes to contain
the meters that would be installed in single-family dwelling units, and secure collective boxes that
would hold differing numbers of meters (average 16) and be installed in apartment buildings. This
component would provide the remaining boxes needed for the meters being financed by IDA
under previous projects, by other donors and by KESH itself. It would allow the company to
complete its program of metering all consumers, including those of the hitherto separate pilot
corporations.
The third component, technical assistance, would be provided by IDA for:
- 1 1 -



support of the power sector reform process including determination of the optimum
structure of the sector for privatization and other pre-privatization measures;
preparation of tender documents for the project components and monitoring of the
installation of those components;
assistance to KESH in the establishment of an environmental cell capable of conducting
environmental assessments, preparing resettlement action plans and monitoring
environmental-related activities and indicators;
revaluation of KESH's assets;
review of existing inventory control procedures and recommendations for improvement;
and
carrying out of consumer satisfaction surveys.
Training would be provided in procurement.
Indicative   .       Bank-   - %of
.--; Component               -       Sector  .iCosts,;      %o   f .  - financing __Bank-
; . ; X . . / .           ..  >  s..   q*-- US$M)  ~ Total  (US$M) - financing
1. Transmission and distribution  Distribution &   21.03      60.0     20.42     68.3
system.                         Transmission
2. Consumer meter boxes.        Other Power &       10.18     29.0      6.20      20.7
Energy Conversion
3. Technical assistance and training.  Other Power &  3.85    11.0      3.28      11.0
Energy Conversion
Total Project Costs                35.06     100.0     29.90     100.0
Total Financing Required                  35.06    100.0     29.90     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key reforms supported by the project would be those set out in (i) the January 2002 version
of the two-year Action Plan and future revisions; and (ii) the Power Sector Policy Statement.
Key actions under the January 2002 version of the two-year Action Plan include:
-     elimination of illegal connections in specific areas near big cities that are already identified
(about 30,000);
-     enforcement of the penal code related to theft of electricity through prosecution of 5,000
cases;
-     installation of 300,000 additional meters in secure collective boxes for apartment buildings
and secure individual boxes for detached dwellings connected to the grid with tamper
resistant cable;
-     reincorporation of the pilot units into KESH;
-     continued regrouping of KESH's 35 distribution divisions plus the three pilot companies
into 9 distribution zones;
-     continuation of an aggressive media campaign to inform the public of the extent of the
electricity crisis, its causes, its potential repercussions, and the need for the measures being
taken;
-     extension of the pilot computerized billing system to all zones of Albania in 2002 and
- 12 -



completion of the system in 2003;
-     introduction of sample checking of meter readers;
-     phased reduction of redundant staff during 2002 and 2003; and
-     establishment of a new incentive scheme linked to financial performance objectives for
KESH employees.
The Policy Statement includes: (a) a list of measures to strengthen the ERE based on
recommendations of the Strategic Action Plan prepared by the Albania Power Sector Reform
Task Force; and (b) development of a strategy and a schedule for sector restructuring and
privatization.
The measures to strengthen the ER,RE under the Power Sector Policy Statement include:
-     amending the Law on Regulation of the Electricity Sector to eliminate the Government's
role in setting the ceiling price for electricity;
-     adoption by the ERE of rules to govern rate filing requirements and rate case processing;
-     adoption by the ERE of transparent and open public procedures for decision-making;
-     development by the ERE' of consumer complaint procedures, customer service standards
and conditions of service for each customer class;
-     development by the ERE, of a uniform system of regulatory accounting and reporting for
the electricity sector;
-     adoption by the ERE of regulations relating to the procedures and standards for approving
a licensee's program of investments;
-     adoption by the ERE of regulations to license independent power producers and approve
power purchase agreements for the output of such facilities;
-     adoption by the ERE of regulations that establish an expedited process for the licensing
and approval of investment in new and existing small hydro and cogeneration thermal
power plants and that provide for third party transmission access and power purchase
agreements with KESH; and
-     authorizing the ERE to license proposed exports of power.
The Power Sector Policy Statement supports revisions of the tariff structure to better reflect
economic costs. These revisions would take into account the recommendations of the electricity
tariff module of the Energy Sector Study being carried out under the Power Transmission and
Distribution Project (Cr. 2826-Alb). The Policy Statement also provides for preparation and
adoption of measures to alleviate the impact of higher energy costs on low-income consumers.
When the new commercial market begins operation, the ERE will issue licenses to the generation,
transmission and distribution companies, and eventually electricity traders when bilateral
contracting begins. It will approve transmission rates, prices for ancillary services, adopt a grid
code providing for the reliable and stable operation of the transmission and distribution networks
and power system dispatch, amd adopt regulations providing for third party access to the
transmission and eventually distribution networks.
The actions related to restructuring and privatization under the Power Sector Policy Statement
- 13 -



include:
-     strengthening KESH's internal organization, management and performance, with the
assistance of Enel;
-     functionally unbundling KESH operations;
-     subsequently dividing KESH   into separate joint-stock companies for production,
transmission and distribution;
-     selecting the model for the commercial electricity market;
-     establishing rules for the commercial electricity market;
-     measures to encourage and facilitate the construction of new power plants by private
investors;
-     selecting a privatization advisor for the electricity sector; and
-     initiating the process of gradually privatizing selected parts of the power sector in
accordance with the approach set out in the Policy Statement.
Despite the lack of success in previous efforts to improve sector performance, it is believed that
the chances of success are significantly greater now given the changed environment. This aspect
is dealt with in Section F (Sustainability and Risks).
3. Benefits and target population:
The benefits would consist of: (i) reduced load shedding resulting from the actions to reduce
non-technical power losses and improve collections, since these would both lead to lower demand
and improve the ability of KESH to pay for imported electricity; (ii) fewer unplanned outages,
improved quality of electricity supply (e.g., less voltage fluctuation) and lower transmission and
distribution losses as a result of transmission and distribution system rehabilitation; (iii) improved
power sector financial performance resulting from a reduction in power transmission and
distribution losses, increased collection of electricity bills and revised tariff rates; (iv) improved
efficiency in the use of electricity as a result of revisions in the electricity tariff structure to better
reflect economic costs; (v) alleviation of the burden of high electricity costs on low-income
consumers through introduction of a subsidy; (vi) a more effective power sector regulatory
framework, and (vii) the launching by the Government of a clearly defined power sector reform
strategy.
The beneficial impact on demand and load shedding of the reduction in non-technical power
losses and improvement in collections is potentially large. The projections contained in the
January 2002 revision of the two-year Action Plan show a decrease in demand from 6,395 GWh,
including 994 GWh of load shedding, in 2001 to 5,585 GWh in 2005, with zero load shedding.
Without the reduction in losses and improvement in collections, demand would almost certainly
continue rising. The reduction in demand is due to the expectation that part of the unpaid-for
electricity demand will disappear or be transferred to other forms of energy rather than be
converted to paid-for consumption. The reduction in load shedding itself would bring large
benefits in terms of improved comfort for households and avoided loss in production and sales
and avoided need for back-up generators for businesses. These benefits would in turn provide a
more favorable environment for potential foreign investment in Albania and improve Albania's
economic growth prospects.
- 14 -



The reduction in demand combined with an improved financial performance by KESH would
permit the import subsidy (US$ 31.5 million equivalent in 2001) to fall to zero by the end of 2004,
provided hydroelectricity production does not fall below average hydrological year levels. This
would provide an important .fscal benefit, and allow these budgetary resources to be used for
other critical needs, particularly those related to poverty alleviation.
The lower demand would itself reduce the need for new power stations. Urnder current
circumstances, new stations would need to be financed by KESH, the Govermnent or donors,
since foreign equity investment for generating projects to serve Albanian demand has so far not
been forthcoming because of a variety of factors including the risk of non-payment for the
electricity sold. New generating plants will be expensive. A new 100 MW combined-cycle
thermal power station would have a discounted net cost of about US$ 250 million (of which the
investment cost would be about US$ 80 million) and produce about 600 GWh per year. Despite
the high cost, new domestic thermal power generation would be desirable, since even under the
most optimistic plausible demand reduction scenarios Albania would still depend heavily on
imports, and there is uncertainty over the continued availability and cost of such significant
amounts of imported electricity.
In this respect, the projected improvement in payment for electricity as well as the measures to
strengthen the regulatory frarnework and restructure the power sector would improve the future
prospects for foreign private investment in generation in Albania and for privatization of KESH.
The project includes measures to mitigate the impact of higher tariff rates on the poor. These
measures would also cover the impact of the efforts being made to reduce unbilled electricity
consumption and improve bill collection to the extent these affect those among the poor who have
exploited these ways of getting electricity for free. The low-income families living in the regions
where the transmission and dlistribution system investments would be carried out would benefit
directly from improvements in electricity supply quality. The more isolated rural areas where
many of the poor live have experienced relatively more load shedding than the more prosperous
cities of Tirana and Durres, and therefore would benefit relatively more than those cities from the
reductions in load shedding sought under the project.
The target population for the power transmission and distribution investments under the project
would be the electricity consumers in the areas of Durres, Elbasan and Kucova. The target
population for the meter boxes would be consumers currently without meters, spread all over the
country. Key policy actions supported by the project are directed towards consumers who do not
pay fully for their electricity consumption. The tariff reform measures would affect all consumers,
while the associated social measures would benefit low-income families. The sector reform
measures would affect all electricity consumers through their impact on electricity availability,
reliability and costs of supply.
- 15 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Financing Plan
Of the total project cost of US$ 35.06 million, IDA would provide a credit in the amount of US$
29.9 million, and US$ 5.16 million would be provided by KESH to cover local costs.
Lending Arrangements
The IDA credit would be lent to the Republic of Albania for 40 years with a 10-year grace period
and at the standard IDA service charge. The credit would be relent to KESH for 20 years with a
5-year grace period and an interest rate equal to the six- month US dollar Libor rate plus 0.75%.
Implementation
The proposed project would be completed within the three-year period from October 1, 2002
through September 30, 2005. The Government would be responsible for the policy actions
designated as its responsibility in the two-year Action Plan and the Power Sector Policy
Statement. Management of the implementation of the project would be carried out by KESH,
with the Project Management Unit (PMU) responsible for implementation of the Power
Transmission and Distribution Project continuing for the proposed project. Although the PMU
has operated satisfactorily since 1996 with periodic assistance on procurement-related activities
by consultants financed by Switzerland, a Procurement Capacity Assessment has been be carried
out, and the findings are summarized in Annex 6.
Financial Management and Disbursement
In accordance with the Bank's financial management requirement, a Bank accredited financial
management specialist has reviewed the proposed financial management system for the project to:
(i)   assess the project's capacity and readiness for implementation; and
(ii)  review whether the necessary elements are present for a sound project financial
management system such as adequate internal controls, project accounting, project
staffing and audit arrangements.
The findings of this review are given in Annex 6.
Supervision and Monitoring
Technical assistance would be provided for preparation of tender documents for the project
components and monitoring of installation of these components.
As this is a complex project with a major reform component, a significant supervision effort by
- 16 -



IDA staff would be required.
IDA would carry out a mid-term review by March 31, 2004. In addition to the topics covered
under the Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), the mid-term review would include a review of
the economic viability of the project components, based on actual costs and benefits achieved to
date, and of the overall institutional and financial performance of KESH. This review would
identify any additional measures to be taken to ensure the efficient completion of the project and
achievement of the project objectives.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considenrd and reasons for rejection:
The alternatives to the project and the reasons for their rejection are as follows:
No Project. The main justification for the project is the desirability of an initiative to address
the serious electricity crisis in Albania which is threatening the economic prospects of the country
and having a multiple adverse impact on the poor. The Government's on-going efforts to improve
sector performance need to be supported by significant concurrent investments in the sector.
Given the current situation in the sector, private sector investments are not forthcoming, and
limits have to be placed on non-concessional borrowings in order to keep debt servicing liabilities
within manageable proportions. It is therefore considered imperative that the Bank, which has
played a lead role in assisting the Government in its efforts to improve sector performance, should
support these efforts by financing urgently-needed investments. Failure to do so would jeopardize
the sustainability of the Government's efforts and thereby put at risk the favorable economic
outlook for Albania.
The transmission and distribution investments components of the project would contribute to
improved sector performance by reducing unscheduled outages, thereby avoiding about 26 GWh
of unserved energy per year or more in the first year of operation, and reducing technical losses by
about 36 GWh, thereby making an equal amount of electricity available to final consumers. The
benefits would be progressively larger in subsequent years. The meter component and the
institutional strengthening measures would address the underlying cause of the crisis, namely
excessive growth in demand resulting from illegal use of electricity and failure to pay electricity
bills. The project was also found to be economically and financially attractive.
Rehabilitation of the Fier Power Plant. The feasibility of rehabilitating the Chinese and Czech
units at the Fier Therrnal Power plant was evaluated in Harza's feasibility study for the project.
The levelized cost of electricily from the rehabilitated units was estimated to be higher than the
price of imported electricity. This consideration alone would not rule out the Fier option since
Albania depends heavily on imported electricity, and there is uncertainty over the continuing
availability of low-cost imports. The levelized cost of electricity from the lowest cost unit at Fier,
the Czech unit, is about eciual to the levelized cost of electricity from a possible new
combined-cycle power plant at Vlore operating on diesel oil. However, recent experience at other
rehabilitated thermal power plants that, like Fier, had been subject to poor maintenance over
prolonged periods, shows a large risk of frequent failures of un-rehabilitated components that
- 17 -



could reduce availability significantly. This consideration suggests that Fier would be less
attractive than the Vlore plant. Moreover, including Fier rehabilitation under the project would
lead to a delay in processing since there would need to be a series of detailed tests carried out on
the equipment to clearly identify rehabilitation needs prior to proceeding with the bidding process,
and there would also need to be a detailed environmental assessment. This delay would be
unacceptable given the magnitude of the crisis, the urgency of the Government's request for
assistance, and the risk of social unrest if there is not an early improvement in the power supply
situation. Finally, the economic rate of return of the Fier rehabilitation is less than the rates for
the selected power transmission and distribution sub-components.
Other Transmission and Distribution Candidates.   The feasibility of rehabilitating and
strengthening the transmission and distribution networks in the regions of Fierza, Korca, Vau i
Dejes and Ulza as well as the three regions selected (Durres, Elbasan and Kucova) was
investigated. Durres, Elbasan and Kucova were selected because they had the highest economic
rates of return, and the available financing did not allow for the inclusion of additional regions.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Donor assistance to the power sector began with IDA and Swiss financing of emergency repairs
to the power system under the Critical Imports Project in 1992. At that time, the power system
was badly run down for lack of maintenance and was partly damaged by vandalism. There were
frequent unscheduled outages even though the country had surplus hydroelectricity generation.
Shortly thereafter, non-technical power losses began increasing rapidly.  Since then, donor
assistance has been focused mainly on four areas: supply of meters and technical assistance aimed
at reducing non-technical power losses and improving revenue collection; rehabilitation of the
hydropower stations on the Drin River; rehabilitation and strengthening of the power transmission
and distribution systems; and the beginning of sector reform aimed at improving efficiency,
establishing competition and privatization. IDA and Switzerland, EIB, Norway and Switzerland
have supported efforts to reduce non-technical power losses and improve revenue collection
through the financing of meters and technical assistance. EBRD, Austria, Italy, Japan and
Switzerland have been financing rehabilitation of the hydropower stations on the Drin River
through the Drin River Cascade Rehabilitation Project. IDA, EBRD, EIB, Italy, Japan and
Switzerland have been financing power transmission and distribution system rehabilitation through
the Power Transmission and Distribution Project. Germany, Italy and Norway have been
providing separate assistance for power sector rehabilitation, and Spain is also considering
assistance for the sector. The United States (USAID and USTDA) and Canada (CIDA) have been
providing technical assistance for power sector reform and investment evaluation.
The proposed project involves a continuation of the strategy of supporting power system
rehabilitation and strengthening, reduction in non-technical losses and improvement in revenue
collection, and sector reform.
- 18-



_        .              .         Latest-Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 -(PSR) Ratings
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___   (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Emergency repairs                 Critical Imports                  S             S
Non-technical losses              Power Loss Reduction              S             U
Rehabilitation                    Power Transmission and            S             U
Distribution
Other development agencies
Austria: Rehabilitation.          Co-financing of Drin River
Cascade Rehabilitation Project.
EBRD: Rehabilitation.             Drin River Cascade
Rehabilitation; co-financing of
Power Transmission and
Distribution Project.
EIB: Rehabilitation.              Transmission and distribution
system strengthening in Vlore,
Elbasan and Shkoder; supply of
meters.
Germany (KfW): System strengthening Establishment of a regional
in southern Albania.              management unit in Bistrica and
investments in generation and
distribution; rehabilitation
program for Korca substation.
Italy: Rehabilitation.            Distribution system
strengthening in Tirana, Durres,
and other cities; technical
assistance to KESH including
for a management assistance
contract; construction and
rehabilitation of KESH office
buildings; co-financing of Drin
River Cascade Rehabilitation
Project.
Japan: Rehabilitation.            Co-financing of Drin River
Cascade Rehabilitation Project,
and Power Transmission and
Distribution Project.
Norway: Rehabilitation.            Substations and materials;
supply of meters.
Switzerland: Rehabilitation.      Co-financing of Critical Imports
Project, Power Loss Reduction
Project, Power Transmission
and Distribution Project and
Drin River Cascade
Rehabilitation Project.
- 19 -



United States: Technical assistance.  Technical assistance for power
sector reform and investment
evaluation.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Note: IDA disbursements under the Power Transmission and Distribution Project were suspended from November 1998 to June
2001 because of unsatisfactory performance in reducing power distribution losses and improving electricity bill collection. The
above ratings apply to the project after restructuring in June 2001.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Experience since lending to the Albanian power sector began in 1992 shows that: (i)
implementation of the investments has been satisfactory; and (ii) the Government has been prompt
to pass the legislation necessary for major reforms; but (iii) follow-up actions were ineffective;
and (iv) until recently KESH, partly because of inadequate government support, has not been able
to achieve a sustained reduction in power losses and increase in bill collection, nor have KESH
and the Govermment made much progress towards implementing previously approved sector
reform and privatization. The failure in reducing losses and improving bill collection has been the
main cause of the poor sector performance and resulted in the electricity crisis that the country
has been experiencing since summer 2000. Experience has also shown that a coordinated donor
approach to sector issues, including willingness to suspend disbursements, has been very helpful in
focusing the Government's attention on addressing these issues.
This experience is reflected in the project design in the following ways: (i) major emphasis is given
to reduction in both technical and non-technical losses and improvement in bill collection, with
specified targets to be achieved by critical dates during processing and implementation of the
project; (ii) the Government's two-year Action Plan designed to meet these targets has been
endorsed by the donors and initial implementation has been quite successful; (iii) the sector reform
program is being defined in a thorough and comprehensive way with substantial technical
assistance and would be endorsed by the Council of Ministers prior to Board presentation and the
endorsement of the donors would be sought; (iv) substantial attention would be given to
institutional strengthening, particularly of KESH through continued management assistance, and
of the ERE; and (v) a realistic time schedule would be set for implementation of the program,
with the objective of largely solving the power loss and bill collection problems, improving
KESH's financial performance and strengthening the ERE. Bank staff will keep other donors
informed about progress in achieving the project's objectives, and will propose donor meetings in
order to ensure continuation of the current coordinated approach to dealing with the sector's
problems.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The following are indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
-      the Government and KESH     adopted a two-year Action Plan in December 2000,
successfully implemented it over the first year, and have updated it and extended it to
include 2003 with ambitious targets;
-      an inter-ministerial committee headed by the Prime Minister meets frequently to oversee
implementation of this plan;
- 20 -



-     a government-appointed Power Sector Reform Task Force prepared a Strategic Action
Plan that sets out the main elements of the power sector reform program, and a Power
Sector Policy Statement based on this Plan has been adopted by the Government; and
-     the willingness of the Government to provide a large subsidy to KESH for purchase of
imported electricity further demonstrates the Government's commitment to alleviating the
electricity shortage, and is therefore a good indication that the Government will strongly
support the actions proposed under the project to achieve the same goal.
5. Value added of Bank support iin this project:
The power sector is in the midst of an electricity shortage that puts at risk Albania's recently
favorable macroeconomic performance and its economic growth prospects. This provides the
rationale for a new initiative in the power sector at the present time. The value that the Bank
could add through the proposed project would come from: (i) its experience with three other
projects in the power sector in Albania since 1992; (ii) its experience with similar power sector
issues in other countries; (iii) its focus on sector policy issues; (iv) the technical advice it could
provide in areas such as investment planning, project management, procurement, financial
management, environmental improvements; and (v) continuation of its leadership role among the
other donors. As noted in Section D.3, a coordinated donor approach has been very helpful in
focusing the Government's attention on addressing the power sector issues. The Government and
donors including the IMF have shown that they value the Bank's views by requesting its advice
not only on project-related matters but on other sector issues as well, and by acting on this advice.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit   NPV=US$83 01 million; ERR = 48 % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
A cost-benefit analysis was caried out for the transmission and distribution component, which
accounts for 60% of the project .ost. It was not feasible to do a cost-benefit analysis of the meter
boxes because of the difficulty of making quantitative estimates of how consumers would behave
towards unprotected and protected meters respectively.  It was also not feasible to do a
cost-benefit analysis of the technical assistance because of the difficulty of quantifying the
benefits.
The quantified benefits for the transmission and distribution component include: (i) reductions in
technical transmission and distribution losses; (ii) reductions in the quantity of unserved energy
resulting from fewer and shorter unscheduled outages of the transmission and distribution system;
and (iii) projected additional sales to final consumers through the strengthened systems that would
not be possible without the proposed investments. The reductions in losses and outages were
estimated from load flow studies, making comparisons between operation of the three regional
systems in the absence of strengthening and with strengthening. The reductions in losses were
valued at the cost of imported electricity in the case of the transmission losses and at the cost of
imported electricity plus marginal transmission cost and losses in the case of the distribution
losses. Unserved energy was valued at US$ 0.25/kWh based on studies in other comparable
- 21 -



countries. The additional sales were valued on a willingness to pay basis at the average of the
cost of supplying electricity from diesel generators in consumer premises (US$ 0.16/kWh) and the
projected electricity price less the cost of imported electricity adjusted by technical losses in
transmission and distribution. This approach assumes that additional electricity demand would be
25% lower if it had to be met by the use of consumer diesel generators. The average electricity
price is assumed, on the basis of projections in the two-year Action Plan, to increase in nominal
prices from Lek 5.43 (US$ 0.039) in 2002 to Lek 6.82 (US$ 0.049) in 2005. It is assumed to
stay constant in real terms thereafter.
The costs include the project investments in transmission and distribution, and the operation and
maintenance costs, assumed annually to be equal to 2% of the investments.
Import duties and indirect taxes were excluded. Shadow prices were not used since actual prices
are believed to be close to the true economic values. The estimates were made in constant prices
as of January 1, 2002.
All three regional transmission and distribution sub-components were found to have positive net
present values when discounted at the opportunity cost of capital, taken to be 12%.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 9.67 million; FRR = 21 % (see Annex 4)
Project Financial Rate of Return. A project financial analysis was carried out for the same
transmission and distribution investments. The benefits used for the economic analysis were also
used for the financial analysis. However, two of the three benefits were measured differently.
Reductions in unserved energy were measured in the financial analysis using the projected tariff
rates, whereas a higher estimate of US$ 0.25/kWh was used in the economic analysis. Increased
electricity sales were measured in the financial analysis using the projected tariff rates, whereas a
willingness to pay measure based on the cost of consumer diesel generating units was used in the
economic analysis. These two adjustments explain why the financial rate of return is lower than
the economic rate of retum. The financial analysis is in nominal prices. Import duties on the
project equipment totalling US$ 0.32 million equivalent were included in the costs. The value
added tax was excluded since tax paid on imported equipment would be deductible from tax paid
on sales. Corporate profit taxes were not included since the cost of capital used to discount
future values is considered to be a pre-tax rate.
Two of the three regional transmission and distribution sub-components were found to have
positive net values when discounted at the cost of capital of 12% plus local inflation of 3%. The
third (for Kucova) has a slightly negative net present value of -US$ 0.16 million, and its rate of
return of 14.7% is only slightly below the 15% nominal cost of capital. These results are not
significantly different from acceptable levels. There would be no adverse financial effect on
KESH since the onlending temns of the Credit are more favorable than the cost of capital plus
local inflation. Moreover, the Kucova sub-component has a very attractive economic rate of
return of 40.5%.
- 22 -



Project Financing Plan. The total cost of the project is estimated at US$ 35.06 million
(including duties and taxes of US$ 0.89 million). The proceeds of the IDA credit on-lent to
KESH by the Ministry of Finance would account for about 85% of the required project financing.
The balance of US$ 5.16 million equivalent (15%) would be financed by KESH from its internally
generated funds.
Financial System and Tariffs. Beginning with the passage of a new accounting law in 1994, the
Government introduced improvements in the accounting system. Despite some progress, there
continued to be weaknesses in the financial management systems of enterprises due to deviations
from internationally accepted accounting standards and shortage of trained professionals, both
accountants and auditors. Consequently, under the IDA-supported operation for the Power
Transmission and Distribution Project, technical assistance was provided to KESH to improve its
financial management system. Pending the completion of this work and successful introduction of
the new system, IDA had agreed that the annual audit of KESH's financial statements be limited
to review procedures. The new system has been introduced in some of KESH's units that were
selected as pilots and the extension to the entire KESH organization had been planned for July
2002. However, in late 2001, KESH re-organized itself, and the extension of the system to
KESH as a whole is now expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
Tariffs are proposed by KESHI management and are subject to approval by the Regulatory
Authority. The levels of the tariffs differ by class of consumer and the voltage supplied. At
present, there are three basic classes - transmission, domestic distribution and non-domestic
distribution. A value-added tax (VAT) of 20 percent is applied on the base tariff. A profit tax of
30 percent is applied on net income. In estimating net income, KESH is not allowed to include
any provision for bad debts as part of its operating expenses.
Past and Current Financial Performance. Historical financial statements are included in
project files and summarized in Annex 5. Due to the combined result of low tariffs, weak
collection, rising expenses, and the adverse effects of the turmoil in the economy in 1997, KESH's
financial situation deteriorated until 1999 in which year it incurred a loss of Lek 1.26 billion (US$
9 million). Since then, KESH's overall financial performance has improved. However, KESH
continued to face significant operating deficits (operating revenues less operating expenses) due
to the steep increase in electricity imports and the continuing, though improving, provisions for
bad debt. The cost of electricity imports was partially compensated through Government
subsidies amounting to Lek 1.8 billion (US$ 12.4 million) in 1999 and Lek 3.5 billion (US$ 25
million) in 2000, resulting in a modest profit of Lek 38 million (US$ 0.27 million) in 2000.
Revenue collection (as percentage of annual billings) improved from 58.6% in 1999 to 61.6% in
2000.
In December 2000, the Government and KESH adopted a strategy for improving operating and
financial performance. The actions and targets for improvement were set out in the two-year
Action Plan which stipulated performance targets to be met by KESH, and specified financial and
other support to be provided by the Govermment.
- 23 -



The improving trend in collection performance was maintained in 2001 and KESH met the targets
stipulated under the Action Plan. The collection ratio for 2001 was 84.5%, assisted by the
payments of Lek 2.3 billion by the Government towards the arrears of budgetary and
non-budgetary institutions to KESH. The average tariff was increased from Lek 3.41 per kWh in
2000 to 4.00 in 2001, and will increase to 5.43 in 2002 as a result of further rate increases and the
re-integration of the three pilot corporations into KESH. However, costs of electricity imports in
2001 were much higher at about Lek 8.2 billion (US$ 59 million) compared to Lek 4.6 billion
(US$ 33 million) in 2000. In comparison, the subsidy received by KESH was Lek 4.4 billion
(US$ 31.4 million) in 2001 against Lek 3.5 billion (US$ 25 million) in 2000. Consequently, for
2001, KESH is estimated to have incurred a loss of Lek 561 million (US$ 4 million).
Recent Actions by KESH and the Government. The Government has approved an update of
the Action Plan prepared by KESH that now covers the period 2002-2003. IDA has reviewed the
Plan and found it to be satisfactory. The updated Plan contains enhanced targets for tariff
increases, and revenue and collection performance. The Plan also includes payments by the
Government to (i) compensate KESH for the difference between the cost of electricity imports
and the average tariff and (ii) cover the arrears from state and budgetary entities. The target is to
complete payment of all arrears by 2005.
Future Financial Performance. Projections of KESH financial statements, including a summary
of key indicators, are provided in Annex 5. The targets under the revised 2002-2003 Action Plan
are considered realistic, but their achievement will need sustained commitment by KESH
management and enabling support by the Government. Based on achievement of the Action Plan
targets during 2002-2003 and sustaining the improved performance thereafter, KESH is
projected, by 2004, to start making an operating profit and to reach a self-financing ratio of at
least 40 percent (on average for a three-year period, including the preceding and following years)
in respect of capital expenditures. No Government subsidies are projected to be required after
2004 although KESH would likely continue to require imports of electricity at least through 2008.
These, and other operating and financial expenses, would be financed from KESH's own
revenues. KESH is also expected to be able to provide its share of counterpart financing for a
growing capital expenditure program, including the investments needed to expand power
production. KESH's debt service coverage ratio is projected to remain at a satisfactory level (not
less than 1.5) throughout the project implementation period. At negotiations, undertakings would
be sought from KESH to maintain self-financing and debt service coverage ratios at levels
satisfactory to IDA. KESH would also be required to review annually with IDA its financial
performance for the year and forecasts for the next two years, including an assessment of the
adequacy of tariffs and collection performance. KESH's operational and financial performance
will be closely monitored during project supervision.
Fiscal Impact:
The Government would enjoy a financial benefit since the onlending terms (20 years maturity with
five years grace at an interest rate of Libor plus 0.75%) of the IDA Credit are stricter than the
terms the Government bears (40 years maturity with 10 years grace, IDA service charge of
0.75%). The present value of this benefit at a nominal 15% discount rate is US$ 7.96 million.
- 24 -



There would be a further benefit of about US$ 0.32 million in import duties on the equipment
purchased for the project. The Government would also receive revenue from the 20% value
added tax on additional electricity sales attributable to the project, including sales resulting from
reductions in outages. The present value of this benefit (assuming a 20 year project life and a
15% interest rate) is estimated at US$2.9 million. The value added tax payments oni imported
equipment used for the project would not create a fiscal benefit since KESH would be able to
deduct these payments from payments to the Government of value added tax on current electricity
sales. An important indirect benefit of successful implementation of the policy actions supported
by the project would be the ending of the electricity import subsidy after 2004. The subsidy was
Lek 4,409 million (US$ 31.5 million) in 2001. The policy actions, together with the project
investments, would contribute lo profit tax payments by KESH. These are projected to increase
from Lek 843 million (US$ 6.0 million) in 2003 to about Lek 2,850 million (US$ 20.4 million) in
each of 2006, 2007 and 2008.
3. Technical:
A feasibility study of the transmission and distribution components was prepared by Harza
Engineering Company International L.P., with financing by the United States Trade and
Development Agency. On the basis of discussions with KESH and a review of relevant data,
Harza selected 7 high priority regional investment options for detailed analysis. The three most
favorable options from this list were selected through mutual agreement of KESH and IDA for
financing under the project. These include investments in the regions of Durres, Elbasan and
Kucova. The technical justifications for these investments are as follows.
Durres. The project is important for increasing supply to the northwest part of Albania's second
largest city, where demand is increasing rapidly due to the migration of people from other parts of
the country. The distribution network would be converted from 6 kV to 20 kV, thereby reducing
technical losses, increasing the quality of supply and permitting additional electricity supplies to
consumers in the area. To provide for this conversion, a new 110 kV line would be constructed
from Rashbull to Porto Romano, and a 110/20 substation would be installed at Porto Romano.
Durres would then have two substations, the Porto Romano Substation in the northwest and the
Shkozet Substation in the southeast.
Elbasan. The distribution network in the southern part of Elbasan would be converted from 6
kV to 20 kV, thereby reducing technical losses, increasing the quality of supply and permitting
additional electricity supplies to consumers in the area. To provide supply to the converted
network, a new 110 kV line would be constructed from the intersection point on the El-Fiber line
to the Kombinati i Drurit Substation and a new 110/20 kV substation would be constructed in the
southern part of Elbasan. The investments would reduce transmission and distribution losses,
increase quality of supply and permit supplying additional demand.
Kucova. A 20 kV distribution network would be constructed to replace the very old and
overloaded existing 6 kV network in Berat City. To provide electricity supply for the converted
system, a new 110 kV line would be constructed from the intersection point on the Kucova-Berat
line to the Berat Substation, and a new 110/20 kV substation would be constructed in E3erat City.
These investments would eliminate the need for the existing 35 kV transmission line. These
- 25 -



investments would reduce transmission and distribution losses, increase quality of supply and
permit supplying additional demand.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
KESH was established as a state entity under the Ministry of Mineral and Energy Resources in
1992 in accordance with the Law on State Entities dated July 13, 1992. Its statute defined it as a
vertically integrated entity responsible for production, transmission, distribution and sale of
electricity to consumers throughout Albania and to export markets. As described in Section B.2,
it was converted to a joint-stock company in October 1995. At the same time, the distribution
entities of Elbasan, Shkoder and Vlore were separated from KESH and converted to joint-stock
companies. KESH presently owns 70% of the shares of the three pilot companies, while the
Government, through the Ministry of Public Economy and Privatization, holds all of KESH's
shares.
Until last year KESH was organized into a headquarters, including a dispatching center, in Tirana,
8 combined power production and transmission entities, and 35 distribution entities (excluding the
three pilot corporations). Since then, transmission has been separated from production and
organized into 8 "zones" under the Transmission Department. There are now 8 production
entities. The distribution entities are being reorganized into 8 zones. The zones are being formed
from KESH's 35 distribution entities, and will include the pilot corporations when these return to
KESH, but exclude the Bistrica region where a separate supply and distribution system is being
established with assistance from KfW (Germany). This region would be, in essence, the ninth
zone.
KESH is being assisted by a team of officials from Enel through a management assistance
contract. Enel is providing advice on ways to reduce power losses and improve collections, with
part of its compensation being linked to success in achieving improvements in these areas. It is
also assisting KESH to design and implement improvements in internal organization.
The Ministry of Industry and Energy would be the executing agency with respect to
implementation of the technical assistance for power sector reform.
4.2 Project management:
The PMU used for the Power Transmission and Distribution Project would be continued for the
proposed project. The PMU's tasks with respect to procurement and disbursements would be
relatively simple under the proposed project since there would be few procurement contracts, no
cofinanciers, and no need to carry out procurement on behalf of the pilot companies. The PMU
would also act as agent of the Ministry of Industry and Energy to undertake the selection of
consultants and handle the disbursements for the technical assistance for power sector reform. It
would play an important role in monitoring the institutional and sector reform aspects of the
project, as it is doing for the Power Transmission and Distribution Project.
- 26 -



4.3 Procurement issues:
A procurement capacity assessment has been carried out.  A procurement plan covering
procurement of goods and works and employment of firms to carry out consulting services has
been prepared. Bidding documents would be prepared with the assistance of consultants financed
by the IDA credit. Procurement training would be provided under the project. A procurement
workshop would be organized by the Association immediately after Credit effectiveness to ensure
that the agreed procedures are well understood by PMU staff.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The financial management arrangements that have been used by the PMU for the Power
Transmission and Distribution project have been improved with the installation of an accounting
software. The system has been customized with a chart of accounts and reporting formats tailored
to the needs of the project. P'roject financial management policies and procedures have been
documented into an Accounting Manual that has been prepared by the PMU with the assistance of
an accounting consultant.
The financial management arrangements for the project have been assessed and satisfy the Bank's
minimum requirements.
5. Environmental:               Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Consistent with the requirements for a Category "B" project, Environmental Management Plans
(EMPs) have been prepared by KESH for the three regional transmission and distribution system
sub-components. KESH has also agreed to implement the associated mitigation actions. The
EMPs are in the Project Implementation Plan, and were distributed to the Board on January 28,
2002.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMPs have identified the following issues:
Transmission lines and substations.
The main issue is the desirability of selecting sites for new substations and rights of way for new
lines that are away from environmentally sensitive areas and do not require displacement of
persons or houses. This has been done, and the limited land to be acquired (for tower foundations
and substations) does not involve any resettlement and does not affect any natural habitats or
cultural properties.
Other issues are associated with: limiting exposure to electromagnetic radiation by establishing
- 27 -



that levels are within acceptable limits (Albanian, EU standards); avoidance of PCBs in equipment
purchased under the project; ensuring that sewage water from substations is properly disposed of;
movement of men, materials and equipment during construction (noise, dust); and noise and
communications interferences during operation.
Distribution.
The main issue is the desirability of ensuring that rights of way for new lines minimize possible
adverse environmental impacts.  Minor issues are associated with noise and disruption to
transport, communications, etc. during the construction phase.
Associated mitigation and monitoring actions are identified in the EMPs.
The adequacy of the EMPs has been reviewed. The EMPs fulfill the Bank's standard
requirements.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: March 22, 2002.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
For each of the three transmission and distribution components, public consultations were held by
KESH in January 2002. In each case, a presentation was made to interested stakeholders by
KESH staff on the scope and objective of the rehabilitation and strengthening foreseen under the
project.  The procedure followed for determining line routes and substation locations so as to
minimize environmental impact was described. The process to be followed for land acquisition
and determining market value was explained. The mitigation and monitoring measures given in
the Environmental Management Plans were discussed. Clarifications were provided in response to
queries from the stakeholders.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The EMPs include monitoring plans to measure any project impacts and the effectiveness of
mitigating measures incorporated in the project design.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Substantial direct benefits would accrue to consumers through reduced load shedding and better
quality of supply of electricity. However, household consumers will experience increased
electricity costs as a result of an increased tariff level that may be needed to cover the costs of
- 28 -



imported electricity and new domestic production as well as the costs of strengthened
transmission and distribution facilities. Reduced non-tcchnical losses and improved collection of
bills would impose additional costs on households. The additional cost of electricity would be
expected to cause some consumers to shift to other forms of energy to the extent these are
available for space heating, cooking and hot water, even though such switches would in many
cases require investments in nc:w equipment, and to undertake energy conservation measures.
The Energy Sector Study includes a household survey that would assess the affordability of
electricity for low-income households. The proposed project would include measures to alleviate
the impact of higher energy costs on vulnerable households based on the study recommendations.
It would also include the carrying out of surveys at the start, middle and end of the project
implementation period to assess consumer satisfaction.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The primary beneficiaries of the project would be the electricity consumers, including vulnerable,
low-income users. The users will participate in project implementation through the survey of
household consumers that would be carried out as part of the Energy Sector Study, a follow-up
workshop and subsequent monitoring by means of the consumer satisfaction surveys. Consumers
from the areas where rehabilitation and strengthening of the transmission and distribution
networks are foreseen have been consulted by KESH as part of the process of preparing the
Environmental Management Plans.
Key stakeholders are the Government (through the Minister of Industry and Energy, the Prime
Minister and the Ministry of Economy), KESH and the ERE. The Government would be
responsible for the sector reform aspects of the project and for giving KESH full support towards
reducing power losses and improving collections by such means as ensuring that the police and
the courts deal promptly with persons accused of stealing electricity and delinquent debtors, and
by ensuring that Government agencies and state-owned companies pay their bills and arrears.
KESH would, as executing agency, handle procurement and disbursements and implement the
majority of the measures to improve financial performance, such as reducing power losses, and
improving collections, and it would implement the internal organization improvements agreed
under the project. The actions to strengthen the ERE would require Government decisions as
well as implementation measures by the ERE (although the ERE would not be a signatory to any
of the project legal agreements). Once these actions are decided by the Government, subsequent
tariff changes, including those taken under the project, will require applications by KESH to the
ERE for its approval. The Government would no longer be involved in electricity tarifl- fixing.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
There would be limited partic:ipation of NGOs or other civil society organizations since the
project would be mainly for rehabilitation of existing facilities.
- 29 -



6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The Energy Sector Study conclusions and recommendations with respect to subsidization of
low-income consumers will be based on the results of the household survey.        The
recommendations will provide for either a revised tariff structure to be adopted during project
implementation and/or a separate subsidy mechanism.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Follow-up consultations with the stakeholders would be carried out during the mid-term review
and the implementation completion review.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy.   r       - *      ;.           Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)        * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                 0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       * Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                           0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*     0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Selection of line routes for the transmission lines and of locations for the substations was carried
out so as to minimize environmental impact. There will be limited land acquisition, no
resettlement and no impact on natural habitats and cultural properties. Annex 11 summarizes the
land acquisition process, identifies responsible parties and estimates the amount of land to be
acquired. Aspects to be monitored during implementation are specified in the Annex.
Environmental Management Plans have been prepared in accordance with the requirements for a
Category "B" IDA project.
Land acquisition will be carried out in accordance with Albanian law, which provides for
compensation on the basis of fair market value.
- 30 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the projecl: and program depends on continuing improvements in reducing
power losses and improving bill collection. Previous efforts failed to bring about continuing
improvements in these areas. Hlowever, the prospects of sustained success are greater this time
for the following reasons:
-      The extent of the problem   has reached crisis proportions and is having major
macroeconomic implicatiions. The Government realizes that failure to address and resolve
the root causes of this crisis would have unacceptable political, economic amd social
repercussions.
-      There is widespread public awareness about the extent of the crisis, its causes and its
implications, partly as a result of an extensive media campaign. This has resulted in a
greater acceptance of the need for the tough measures that have been initiated by the
Government and KESH, and this in turn has made the task of implementing these
measures somewhat easier.
-      The extent and range of rneasures taken recently is unprecedented.
-      Processing of the project is dependent on specified loss reduction and collection
improvement targets being achieved. The two-year Action Plan targets have been met
since implementation began in January 2001.
-      There is a coordinated donor approach to the sector, and the donors have repeatedly
stated that future donor assistance would be jeopardized if there are slippages in meeting
the agreed performance targets.
Sustained reductions in losses and improved collections would improve KESH's financial
performance, making it easier fo:r the company to make the necessary expenditures to reduce, and
eventually, overcome the electricity shortage. Improved financial performance would also
enhance the attractiveness of the power sector to foreign investors and improve the prospects for
successful sector restructuring and privatization.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth colunn of Annex 1):
Risk                  Risk Ratirig        F5Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Failure to reduce power losses            S        The targets are incorporated into the annually
updated two-year Action Plan, which has been
implemented successfully since January 2001.
The donors to the sector have demonstrated their
willingness to suspend assistance if power losses
are not reduced.
Failure to improve bill collection        S        The targets are incorporated into the annually
- 31 -



updated two-year Action Plan, which has been
implemented successfully since January 2001.
The donors to the sector have demonstrated their
willingness to suspend assistance if bill
collection is not improved.
Failure to increase tariff rates           M         As the Govemment realizes the importance of
improving KESH's financial performance and
thereby reducing the import subsidy, the
two-year Action Plan provides for periodic tariff
increases. Furthermore, ERE would be
strengthened to perform adequately as an
independent regulator with authority to approve
tariff increases proposed and justified by KESH.
Hydroelectric production could fall to low  S        The measures included in the two-year Action
levels because of drought, thereby making            Plan to improve KESH's financial performance
it more difficult to reduce load shedding.           would increase KESH's ability to pay for
additional imported electricity, thereby averting
additional load shedding.
Electricity demand could grow more         M         The measures included in the two-year Action
rapidly than forecast, thereby making it             Plan to improve KESH's financial performance
more difficult to reduce load shedding.              would reduce demand and increase KESH's
ability to pay for imported electricity, thereby
averting additional load shedding.
Higher tariff rates could lead to higher    S        The two-year Action Plan includes a list of
non-technical losses and reduced bill                remedies (see Section C2). Management
collection.                                          assistance by consultants would be extended.
Part of the consultants' compensation is linked
to success in reducing losses and improving bill
collection.
Failure by Govemment and KESH to           M         The power sector needs significant further
implement the sector reforms.                        financing, and the coordinated donor approach
will ensure that availability of this financing is
linked to successful implementation of the
reforms.
From Components to Outputs
Delayed project completion                 M         A realistic implementation schedule would be
chosen.
Cost overrun                               M         Adequate physical and price contingency
allowances are included in the cost estimates.
Overall Risk Rating                        M         Since substantial progress would need to be
made on the two riskiest items before Board
presentation, the overall rating, once the project
has begun, is reduced.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 32 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and KESH.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
The Borrower would agree thai& it would:
(i)   on-lend the funds to KESH at the six-month Libor US Dollar rate plus 0.75%, with a 20
year maturity, including .5 years of grace;
(ii)  update the two-year Action Plan (revised version adopted on January 28, 2002)
acceptable to the Association by November 30 of each year in order to fix targets for the
succeeding two years;
(iii)  meet the targets set out in the two-year Action Plan for 2002, and the targets for
subsequent years to be established in the updated Plans, with respect to payments to
KESH against the financial arrears of budgetary and non-budgetary entities;
(iv)  by March 31, 2003 undertake to (a) implement recommendations of the Energy Sector
Study regarding protection of low-income consumers from the impact of higher energy
costs and (b) facilitate implementation of recommendations of the Energy Sector Study
regarding establishment of a new electricity tariff structure; and
(v)   prepare, jointly with KEFSH, and furnish by February 28, 2004 a report integrating the
results of monitoring and evaluation activities on the progress achieved in the carrying out
of the project preceding this date, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure
the efficient carrying ollt of the project and the achievement of the objectives thereof
during the period following this date; and review with the Association by March 31, 2004,
or such later date as the Association shall request, this report, and, thereafter, take all
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the project.
The Association would retain the right to resort to its remedies if the Borrower fails to
substantially implement the provisions of the Power Sector Policy Statement.
KESH would agree that it would:
(i)  meet the quarterly targets set out in the current and subsequent updates of the two-year
Action Plan with respect to: reduction in power transmission and distribution losses; and
improvements in bill collection;
(ii)  maintain a self-financing ratio of at least 35% in 2003 and 40% in 2004 and thereafter;
(iii)  not incur new debt unless KESH's total debt service requirement is covered at least 1.5
times by its net internal cash generation;
(iv)  open, by December 31, 21)02, a separate account for the financing of payments to be made
by KESH for its contribution towards the cost of the project, and, every three months,
ensure that there are sufficient funds in the account to cover the expected expenditure over
the succeeding six months;
- 33 -



(v)   review with the Association, by October 15 of each year commencing in 2002, its program
of capital expenditures for the following five years, and finalize this program, acceptable to
the Association;
(vi)  review with the Association, by October 15 of each year, commencing in 2002, on the basis
of forecasts satisfactory to the Association whether it will meet the requirements set out in
(ii) above in respect of such year and the next fiscal year. If such a review shows that the
requirements will not be met, take all necessary measures to meet such requirements;
(vii)  establish a satisfactory action plan to control operating costs by December 31, 2002, and
implement the plan in accordance with a schedule agreed with the Association;
(viii) by March 31, 2003, implement fully the computerized financial management system;
(ix)  by December 31, 2002, submit to the Association an acceptable plan to (i) establish a
treasury system; (ii) complete the establishment of a computerized billing system in all
distribution zones; and (iii) establish budgeting policies and procedures acceptable to the
Association;
(x)   submit, within six months after the close of each fiscal year, project accounts and financial
statements audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Association;
(xi)  have an international utility provide it with management assistance up to June 30, 2004
under arrangements acceptable to the Association; and
(xii) implement the agreed Environmental Management Plans in a timely manner.
H. Readiness for Implementation
O] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
LI 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
OI 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for appro l. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Iftikhar Khalil                                                   hrstiaan J. Poortman
Team Leader                     Sector Manager/Director         Country Manager/Director
- 34 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ALBANIA: Power 'iector Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project
F-*  irei-'-'     r.    e M  D'ta-CollectlonStrate*;
,>.H O,bje_w ER,B1_ic;--orsLeSte--                                   -t .-    -r; tr~ I ons'
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector lindicators:        Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Infrastructure improvement  * Reduce load shedding in  * CAS discussion.         * The Government pursues
through focusing the Bank's   accordance with the                                  a strategy of economic
support in areas of           annually updated                                     growth with equity.
Government commitment to      two-year Action Plan.
key policy and institutional  * Reduce power losses for
reforms. In the power sector  KESH and the pilot
these relate to reduction of  companies to 41.7% in
illegal electricity           2002 and to levels to be
consumption, effective        fixeel in the updated
collection of electricity bills,  two-year Action Plan for
initiation of sector          2003 and 2004.
restructuring and           * Increase bill collection of
strengthened regulatory       KESH and the pilot
framework.                    companies to 89.9% in
2002, and to levels to be
fixedl in the updated two
-year Action Plan in 2003
and 2004.
* Implementation of the
first phase of a power
sector reform program.
- 35 -



-m.  H o  j~ata~ toll -                '|      n1;ct1Stratdgy I                       - 
Project Development       Outcome / Impact          Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Achievement of significant  * Reduce load shedding,   * Supervision reports,    * Adequate govemment
improvement in the            with respect to expected  mid-term review report    and KESH will to enforce
operational effectiveness of  levels in the absence of  and ICR.                  disconnection of
the power sector through: (a)  the project, in accordance  * Project progress reports.  non-payers and illegal
implementation of electricity  with an agreed plan.   * Updated two -year Action  connections and to pay
loss reduction measures; (b)  * Reduce power losses for  Plan.                    government electricity
enforcement of billing,       KESH and the pilot                                  bills and arrears.
collection and disconnection  companies to 41.7% in                             * Hydrological conditions
policies; (c) introduction of  2002 and to levels to be                           permit average or higher
electricity price             fixed in the updated                                annual hydroelectricity
rationalization measures; (d)  two-year Action Plan for                           production.
priority investments to       2003 and 2004.                                    * Electricity demand
improve system supply and   * Increase bill collection of                         growth keeps close to the
reliability; and (e) regulatory  KESH and the pilot                               projected increase.
strengthening and sector      companies to 89.9% in                             * Adequate government
restructuring to improve      2002, and to levels to be                           will to strengthen ERE
sector efficiency and establish  fixed in the updated two-                        and permit it to increase
the preconditions for         year Action Plan in 2003                            tariff rates
competition and privatization.  and 2004.                                       * Adequate government
* Pay all arrears for                                  will to reform the power
government budgetary                                sector in order to improve
and non-budgetary                                   sector efficiency and
customers over four                                 introduce competition
years.                                              and privatization.
* Increase KESH's
self-financing ratio to
35% in 2003 and 40%
thereafter.
* Reduce the government
import subsidy in
accordance with the
agreed annually updated
two-year Action Plan.
* Implementation of the
first phase of the power
sector reform program.
- 36 -



Output from each           Output lndicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Transmission and        1. Completion within budget  Consultants' monitoring  * Adequate government
Distribution System:      and on schedule of         reports; supervision reports  and KESH will to enforce
Planned priority investments  IDA-fin,mced rehabilitation  and ICR.                disconnection of
in system rehabilitation   and strengthening of the                                non-payers and illegal
functioning as designed.  transmission and distribution                            connections and to pay
systems in the regions of                                government electricity
Durres, Elbasan and Kucova.                              bills and arrears.
* Hydrological conditions
permit average or higher
annual hydroelectricity
production.
* Electricity demand
growth keeps close to the
projected increase.
* Adequate govemment
will to strengthen ERE
and permit it to increase
tariff rates.
* Adequate government
will to reform the power
sector in order to improve
sector efficiency and
introduce competition and
privatization.
2. Consumer Meter Boxes:  2. Delivery and installation of Consultants' monitoring
Adequate protection against  meter boxes and associated  reports; supervision reports
tampering provided for    accessories within budget and and ICR.
consumer meters.          on scheclule.
3. Technical assistance and  3. Completion within    Supervision reports and ICR.
Training: Priority needs for  schedule of: power sector
TA delivered as planned.  reform technical assistance;
preparation of tender
documents and monitoring of
installation; establishment of
an environmental cell;
revaluation of KESH's assets;
improvement in inventory
control; consumer satisfaction
surveys; and training in
procurerent.
- 37 -



--    1   o      '  ives.             c                                           CriticaonindIia   j   j ?.V 2.V:l?-. -________.-.,._!_._v
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
1. Transmission and        1. US$ 21.03 million.      * Supervision reports;     * Timely provision of
Distribution System:                                  * Project management         counterpart funds.
Rehabilitation and                                       reports;
strengthening of the power                            * Independent financial
transmission and distribution                            audit (annual);
systems in the regions of                             * Mid-term review report;
Durres, Elbasan and Kucova.                           * ICR.
2. Consumer Meter Boxes:  2. US$ 10.18 million.
Supply and installation of
meter boxes and associated
accessories.
3. Technical Assistance and 3. US$ 3.85 million
Training.
-38 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ALBANIA: Power Sector Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project
There would be three principal project components:
1.    Rehabilitation and strengthening of the transmission and distribution systems in the regions
of Durres, Elbasan and Kucova;
2.    Supply of individual and collective meter boxes for household consumers and related
accessories; and
3.    Technical assistance and training.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$21.03 million
-     Durres Region: development of a 20 kV distribution network in the northwest Durres
area and towards Gjiri Lalezit (a new tourist area); construction of a new 8 km 110 kV
transmission line between Rashbull and Porto Romano; construction of a new 110/20 kV
substation at Porto Rornano with an installed capacity of 2x25 MVA (US$ 6.62 million
including physical and price contingencies);
-     Elbasan Region: development of a 20 kV distribution network in Kombinati I Drurit and
the periphery of the city of Elbasan; construction of a new 3 km double-circuit 110 kV line
from the El-Fiber line to Kombinati I Drurit; construction of a new 110/20 kV substation
in Kombinati I Drurit with an installed capacity of 2x25 MVA (US$ 6.53 million
including physical and price contingencies);
-     Kucova Region: installation of a 20 kV distribution network in place of the existing 6 kV
network in the city of Berat and its surrounding area; construction of a new 2 km
double-circuit 110 kV transmission line from the 110 kV Kucova-Uznove line to Berat
Substation; rehabilitation of 1O km of the existing 110 kV transmission line from Kucova
to Uznove by changing the cross-sectional area of the line from ACSR 95 mnm2 to ACSR
240 mmn2; installation of a new 110/20 kV substation in the city of Berat with an installed
capacity of 2X25 MVA (estimated cost: US$ 7.88 million including physical and price
contingencies).
Project Component 2 - US$10.18 nmillion
The procurement and installation of 110,000 individual meter boxes and 1,500 collective meter
boxes and related accessories.
- 39 -



Project Component 3 - US$ 3.85 million
Technical assistance would be provided for:
support of the power sector reform process including determination of the optimum
structure of the sector for privatization and other pre-privatization measures (US$ 1.0
million);
preparation of tender documents for the project components and monitoring of the
installation of these components (US$ 1.5 million);
-     assistance to KESH in the establishment of an environmental cell capable of conducting
environmental assessments, preparing resettlement action plans and monitoring
environmental-related activities and indicators (US$ 0.15 million);
-     revaluation of KESH's assets, and their allocation to the various units of KESH (US$ 1.0
million);
-     review of KESH's existing inventory control procedures and recommendations for
improvement (US$ 0.1 million); and
-     carrying out of consumer satisfaction surveys (US$ 0.05 million).
Training would be provided to PMU staff for procurement (US$ 0.05 million).
- 40 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ALBANIA: Power Sector Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project
5  -:' --*.i--atP, !, ;'  ,,  ,_ $ 1- Local  Foreign.        Total
.Project CostiB~ Cornponent-   -          US $million   US $milli'n    US $million
I(a). Durres transmission and distribution                    0.19          5.51           5.70
1 (b). Elbasan transmission and di stribution                 0.17          5.45           5.62
l(c). Kucova transmission and distribution                    0.19          6.59           6.78
2.  Meter boxes and accessories                               3.87          5.90           9.77
3.  Technical assistance and training                         0.57          3.28           3.85
Total Baseline Cost                                           4.99         26.73          31.72
Physical Contingencies                                       0.03           1.75          1.78
Price Contingencies                                          0.14           1.42          1.56
Total Project Costs'                5.16         29.90          35.06
Total Financing Required                 5.16          29.90         35.06
The local costs for technical assist;mce and training are for local income taxes.
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0.89 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 34.17 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 87.5% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 41 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
ALBANIA: Power Sector Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
,.  sen_tValueofFlo_       _ f        _________;              '_
, .: _ ' ^Ebcw nTo m! c-I< ~Fliincia fl-Ana W sis'  , 
_-;..          ."  -                 ,             *r1.~ ~:ac 'tnsi<:-F:~', -rb. SiC ihI~ie-
Benefits:               US$ 101.91         US$28.94         US$ 11.18
Transmission and            mnllion           million          million
distribution
component
Costs:                   US$ 18.90         US$ 19.27                0
rnillion          rnillion
Net Benefts:             US$ 83.01          US$ 9.67        US$ 11.18
million           million           million
IRR:                          48%               21%
The reasons for the difference in present values between the economic and financial analysis are given in
Section E2.
The tax benefits are in present value terms. The largest component of this benefit is not a tax, but rather
the difference between the terms on which the Governnent onlends the Credit to KESH and the terms on
which it receives the Credit from the Association.
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
- 42 -



[Value of Unserved Energy (S/kWh)          I___________________                             .20          .50          0201          0 2500
[Value of Reduction in T.Lse U  ents/kVh                I            I             1       00300         0.040       00.045`1~ -0.0450
Value ofReduction in D.cLosses WS cen  W                                                  0 04411       0.0555        00D611 16l
Value of Additional Energ Sales SkW)1                                                     0.09861      0 04931       0 04731       0 050
TIRANA REGION - Durres Zone
BASE ELECTRICITY DEMAND SCENARIO
2000          2001         2003          2005          2010         2015
National Demand Forecast
Pea Demand MW)                                                 1,214        1,205         1,205         1,205         1.284        1,544
Anna En       onsumption (GWh)                                 5,710        5,500         5,595        5,595         6,073         7,440
Anna LaFctor %',                                               53.7%        52.1%         53.0%        5 3. 09/6     54 01'/6      55.0%/
Pro elAeUnosrained Demand (Customer Demand)
P  emand (MW                                                   521        51.50          51.5         5I 5          54.9          66.0
Annua      (MWb                                             264,800      262,200       266,729      266 729       289 4914      354,697
Ann   LoaFactor %81                                                          81                                       6 %63
Without the New Project Investment
AnnualE      Sales (MWh)                                     264,800       262,200      266 729       266,729       2118,000      334,000
Transmission Lines and Associated Substations
Number of Outaen Per Year              _______8.6                           8.6           8 6           8.6           8 8            9
Average Duration Pe Ot e hours)       3_53_53_5_3__3__3_
Averae eLoad Durnn R seM                                      4 00         3.96          4.03          4 03  __     4.35          5 05
Total Outa tes (MWh)                                          120___       11912112113415
Transmission Losses (MW)125                                                1312313                                   3920
Transmission Losse (MWh)                                    4,0          4,T           4,33          4      ___    5,297,9
D-istribution  Lines and Associated  Substations        _ _ _ _ _ __                 _ _ _ _ __                 _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _
Distribution Losses (%6)                                 5.57%        5.52%         5.61%         5.61%         6 06%        7 03%
Distribution Losse (MWh)                                                 14,704        15,219        1517216                    24,020
Energy Demand i aar of DureSsubtios[VW                      85,400       84,561        86,022       86,022        9,8           0,1
Probability of Distribution Failure (4                                                     0             03
Total Failures or Unserved Energy (Mh                         -                                       8 8660218 602
T&D Losses (MWh)                                               19,500       19,117        19.753        19.753       23,067        31,914
T&D Losses %1.                                              6.9%          6.8%          6.9%          6.9%         7.4%          8.3%
T&D Losses + Outsges MWh                                       19,500       191I17        28,355        28,355        41,643       64,229
T&D Losses +Outages %                                       6.9%          6.8%/         9.6%          9%126f%                    15 3%
With the New Projeel Investment
AnaEe Sales (MWh)                                     264,800      262 200       266,729       266,729       289,494      354,697
=TransissincLne andA ssociatd Substations
Numrber of Outa ies Per Year                                   4.1          4.1           4.1           4.1           4.1          4.1
Avege eDurationPeruta    our                                  2.4           2.4           2 4           2.4          2.4           2 4
Averag eLoad Duisng Outs11                                                              2.52.5c M                                 28
Total Outages (MWh                                                            12                        2              32
Transmission Lsses (MW                                       0.43          0 42         0 42          0.42          0.48          0.69
Transmission Losses (MWh)                                   1,548          ,581,559                  1 559         1,823         2,716
Distribution Lines and Associated Substations          ____________
Distri utcon Losses (%                                   2.101%       2.08%         2.11%         2.11%         2.29%        2.81%
Distribution Losses (MW                                      5,590        5,480         5'7           5,672    ~   6,684        10,048
EneryDmand isa par of Dures substations [ b8540                          84.561        8602          8602                      107,718
Probssili  f Disributon Failure %                         -            - -           -                    -                    10
Total Failures or Unserve Enrge (MWh                          --                                                                10,772
TDLose MWI                                                   7138          6_998         7231         7231 .        8,507        12,763
T  se,                                                     . %          2.h2.6/o7./                              2.9%          3.5%
T D Loases + Ouage MWh)                                        7,138         6,998         7,231         7,231         8,507       23,535
T&D Losses + Out enoM                                      2.6%          2.6%          2.6%          2.6%          2.9%         6 2%
ProectA  utuons  S e MWh)                                          -                   -             -           1.494        20,697
Reduction of outaRm (MW w                                        ~~~~~~~~~~100   100          III           131
Value of Unserved Enerly ts/kWh)                                 ~~~~~0.25      0 25          0.25          0.25
Outages Benef'its (5)                                           ~~~~~~~~~25,041  25,041     27,770I       32,713
Reduction in T. Losses (Mwh)                                     2~~,974   2_974          __3,476          5,178
-Value of Reduction in T ~~~~~Tpes__Wit_                                  0.03         0.04          0.0           0.05
Benefits fro Reduction  TLosses (S)                              8    214     11 92         156,413      233,030
TotarTran-smission Benef-its S                        _____                          114,256       14,9924       18418         265,744
Distribution Lines and Associate Substations____________
Total -Unsmervd Eneg fivim Failures (MWh)            8__602_ 8__6_2                                               18,576        2,4
Value of Unserved Enemgy(US centskW)                 ______        _____0.25                          0125          0.25          0.25
Ue En  Boeneits (S)___________                                               2,150,552     2,5,5        4,644,109     5,385,876
UReuction in Ditribution Losses (MWh)                ______        ______91548                       9;5% 4       11,08        13,972
Value of Reduction in D..Losses (US cents/kWh I______0______04_____                                    0.6          0.M           0.06
Benefits from Reduction in D. Losses (S)                                             420_____963______ 529,459   677,625       854,215
Total Distribution Bene71ts1S 2_6_0__011                                                                        513216734    6,240,092
Benefits from  Additiona  Sae                          _ _ __ _ _                 _  _ __ _ _                          94       __ _ _
Additional Sales (MW b                                            _______       _  _ _ _ _ _-                                   20,697
Value of Additional Enert Sales (S/kWh               ______                             0.10          0.05          0.05          0.05
Additional Sales Boeneits (S          I______                                                          -          70,675     17,5
Grand Total Benefits (S  _______        ______        _____           2,685,771 1   2,824,005     5,7,92 1      ,5,8
-43-



Costs                    .Benefts                      ;       - ' 
Investment  O&M Costs    Total Costs  Transmission  Distnbution Additional Sales Total Benefits  Net Benefits
(S)          (S)         ($)          ($)          ($)         (S)          ($)         ($)
2002                                   -
2003    3,097,145                 3,097,145                                                     (3,097,145)
2004    3,097,145                 3,097,145                                                     (3,097,145)
1   2005                   123,886      123,886     143,994    2,680,011         -       2,824,005   2,700,119
2    2006                  123,886      123,886      152,032    3,208,356      14,135    3,374,522    3,250,637
3    2007                  123,886      123,886      160,069    3,736,700      28,270    3,925,040    3,801,154
4    2008                  123,886      123,886      168,107    4,265,045      42,405    4,475,557    4,351,671
5    2009                  123,886      123,886      176,145    4,793,390      56,540    5,026,075    4,902,189
6    2010                  123,886      123,886      184,183    5,321,734      70,675    5,576,592    5,452,706
7    2011                  123,886      123,886     200,495     5,505,406     266,031    5,971,931    5,848,045
8    2012                  123,886      123,886     216,807     5,689,077     461,386    6,367,270    6,243,385
9    2013                  123,886      123,886     233,119     5,872,749     656,742    6,762,610    6,638,724
10   2014                   123,886     123,886      249,431    6,056,420     852,098     7,157,949   7,034,063
11   2015                   123,886     123,886      265,744    6,240,092    1,047,453    7,553,288   7,429,403
12   2016                   123,886     123,886      265,744    6,240,092    1,047,453    7,553,288   7,429,403
13   2017                   123,886     123,886      265,744    6,240,092    1,047,453    7,553,288   7,429,403
14   2018                   123,886      123,886     265,744    6,240,092    1,047,453    7,553,288   7,429,403
15   2019                   123,886      123,886     265,744    6,240,092    1,047,453    7,553,288    7,429,403
16   2020                   123,886     123,886      265,744    6,240,092    1,047,453    7,553,288    7,429,403
17   2021                   123,886      123,886     265,744    6,240,092    1,047,453    7,553,288    7,429,403
18   2022                   123,886     123,886      265,744    6,240,092    1,047,453    7,553,288    7,429,403
19   2023                   123,886      123,886     265,744    6,240,092    1,047,453    7,553,288    7,429,403
20    2022                  123,886      123,886     265,744     6,240,092   1,047,453    7,553,288    7,429,403
EIRR               48.9%
- 44 -



IValue of Unserved Enerxy (S/kwh)                           I                                      0 2501         02501         .2 ..........    2500
Value of Reduction in T. Losses (US cents/Wh)                                                      0.30             0400                        045
V`alu-e of R-eSuction in D. Losses (US centsWkW                                                    0 0441I        0 0555        ThI0611IIIZ      0611
Value of Addtional Eneg sales (S/kWh)                                                              0.0986L        0.0493r                       0 0506
ELBASAN REGION
_________       BASE ELECTRICITY DEMAND SCENARIO
2000           2001           2003           2005           2010           2015
National Demand Forecast_______
Peak Demand (MW)                                                    1,214          1,205          1,205          1,205           1,284          1,544
Annual En    Consumption (GWh)             _________                               5,500          5,595          5.595          6,7             7,4
AnulLa Factor (%)                                               537%           521%           5.0            53 0%          54.0%          -55 0%~
Project Area Unconstrained Demand (Eustorricz Demand)                       __________________
Peak Dmandy(MW)                                                       23.7           23.5           23.5           23 5           25.0            30.1
AnnualEneg (MWh)                                                  120,100        115,500       -117,495        117,495         127,523        156,245
Annual Load Factor (%)"                                             57.8%          56_1%          57 1%          57 1%           58.1%          5-92%
Without the New ProjRt Investment_____________________
Annual Energy Sales (MWh)                                         120,100        115,500        117,495        117,495         127,000        149,000
Transmission Lines and Associated Substations                                             ______                                        ______
Nurnber of Outages Per Year                                         7.1            7.1            7.1             7.2            7 3            75
Average Duration Per Outage (hours)                                3.6            3.6            3 6             39 63 6                       3.6
Avrg  odDuring Outage (MW)                                   4.60          4.42           4.50           4.50           4 86            5 71
Tot   liOtage  (MWh)                                                118            113            115            117            128             154
Transmission Lsses (MW)                                            1.25           1.23           1 23           1.23           1.39           2 02
Transmission Losses (MWh)                                         4,6            4,8            4,299          4,299   5-02                  7,8
Distribution Lines and Associated Substations
Distribution Losse7r(%)~17.50%/                                              16.83%        17.12%         17,12%          18.51%         21 71%
Distribution Losses M h21,800                                                   20,144         20,853         20,853         2443333 976
En mDemandins         of Elbasan substatsont gW                  9608           92,400         93,996         93.996        102,019        124,996
Probabilit of Distribution Failure (%                               -                              10             10             20             30
Total Failures or Unserved Energ  MWh)                              -              -            9,400          9.400         20,404      .37,499
T&D Losses (MWh)                                                    26,265         24 328         25,151         25,151          24641,459
T&D Losses %16                                                   1 79            174           176%           17.6%           18.81 210%
T&D Losses + Outagen    WI                                          26,265         24,328         34,551         34,551          49,860         78,957
T&D Losses +Outages MO                                           1 7.9%          17.4%         227%           22 7%           28.1%          33 6%
,With the New Pro'- elnvtment
Annual En     Sale  M  h120,100                                                  115,500        117,495~       117,495         127,523        156,245
Trans2misioLnes and Associated Substations                                                               ______
Number of Outsges Per Year              _____         _7 1                         7.1            7.1             7.2            7.3            75
Averse eDuration Per Outage (ours)      ______                      3.6            3.6            3 6            36              3 6            3.6
Average Load During Outage (MW)                                       0            -             --                             -
Total Outages (MWh)                                                   0              0              0              0               0              0
Transmission Losses (M )0.15                                                      0.15          0.15            0.15           0 17           0.24
Transmssion  osses(MWh)                                       536             502           -516            516           -603            898
IDistribution  Lintes and Associated  Substations__              _ _ _  _    __ _ _  _ _   _  _ _ _ _  _   _ _ _  _ _ _        _ _ _  _  _  _ _ _  _ _
Distribution Losses M%                                        7 73%          7.43%          7.56%          756%           8 21%          10.06%
Energy Demand in a part of Elbasan substations`jM-Wh-f           96,080         92,400         93,996         93,996        102,019         124.996
T&D L   7s (-7)                                    ~~~~~~~~~9,861  9,126          9440           9,440          11,119         1,0
7.6%           7.3%           7.4%           74%             8.0%           9.7%
T&D Losses + Outages ()7.6%/                                                        -7.3%            7.4%          7 4%            8 0%/          97%
Tasison Lines and Associated Substations________
Reduction of outages (MWh)                                               ______115                               117            128            154
Value of Unserved Energ (SkWh                                            ______                  0.25           0.25           0.25            0 25
Outages Bene is (S)                                                      ______                28,756         2916           31,958         38,522
Reducsion in T. Lsses (M h                                                                     3,783           3,783          4,421          6,585
Value of Reductionin TL  sss(S/kWh)                                                              0.03           0.04           0 50.05
Benef'its from Reduction in T. Losses (S                                 ______              113,481        151,308        198,926        296,321
Total Transmission Benefiats (S)                                         ______               142,237        18,6           23,9            3,4
Distinbution Lines and Associated Substations                                                      940940                     -O,-43,9
Total Unserved Energy from Failures (MWIs)9,0940                                                                             2,44349
Value of Unserved Energy (US cents/kcWh)                                                         0.25           0 25           0.25           0 25
Unered ~Eneg Benefits (S)                                                                  2,349 900      2,4,0          5,100,927       9,34,16
Redcton in Distrbution Losses (MWh)                         _____                                11,928         11,928         13,917         18,173
Value of Reduction in D.~.ose (S cents/kWh                                                       0.04           0.0            0.6            0.06
I Benefits from Reduction in D. Losses (S)                                 ______               525,932        661 481        8586          1111,034
Total Distribution Benefits (S)                                                             2,875,832      3,011,381      5,951,734      10,485,750
Benefits from AMdditional Sales                            _____2___3____7_ _                                                                    245___
Additional_Sales (MW hs)                                  _ _ _  _ _ __                   _ _ _ _  _    _  _ _ _
Value of Additional Energy Sales (S/kWh)                                                         0.10           0 05           0.05           0.05
Additional Sales BenefIts (5)                           _____-24,747F                                                                     366,674
Grand Total Benefits (S)                   ______          ______            3,018,069      3,191,851 1    6,207,3641     11_187_267
- 45-



Costs     -   - , ^     =    9   z2: iBfits-,,
Investment  O&M Costs    Total Costs  Transmission  Distribution Additional Sales Total Benefits  Net Benefits
($)          ($)         ($)          ($)          ($)         ($)          ($)          ($)
2002
2003    3,053,712                 3,053,712                                                     (3,053,712)
2004    3,053,712                 3,053,712                                              -      (3,053,712)
1   2005                   122,148     122,148      180,469    3,011,381         -       3,191,851   3,069,702
2    2006                  122,148      122,148     190,552    3,599,452       4,949     3,794,953   3,672,805
3    2007                  122,148      122,148     200,635    4,187,522        9,899    4,398,056   4,275,907
4    2008                  122,148      122,148     210,718    4,775,593       14,848    5,001,159   4,879,010
5   2009                   122,148      122,148     220,801    5,363,663      19,797     5,604,261   5,482,113
6    2010                  122,148      122,148     230,884    5,951,734       24,747    6,207,364   6,085,215
7    2011                  122,148      122,148     251,676    6,858,537      93,132     7,203,344   7,081,196
8    2012                  122,148      122,148     272,467    7,765,340      161,518    8,199,325    8.077,177
9    2013                  122,148      122,148     293,259     8,672,143     229,903    9,195,306    9,073,157
10   2014                   122,148      122,148     314,051    9,578,946     298,289    10,191,286  10,069,138
11   2015                   122,148     122,148      334,843   10,485,750     366,674    11,187,267   11,065,118
12   2016                   122,148     122,148      334,843   10,485,750     366,674    11,187,267   11,065,118
13   2017                   122,148     122,148      334,843   10,485,750     366,674    11,187,267   11,065,118
14   2018                   122,148     122,148      334,843   10,485,750     366,674    11,187,267   11,065,118
15   2019                   122,148     122,148      334,843   10,485,750     366,674    11,187,267   11,065,118
16   2020                   122,148     122,148      334,843    10,485,750    366,674    11,187,267   11,065,118
17   2021                   122,148     122,148      334,843    10,485,750    366,674    11,187,267   11,065,118
18   2022                   122,148     122,148      334,843    10,485,750    366,674    11,187,267   11,065,118
19   2023                   122,148     122,148      334,843   10,485,750     366,674    11,187,267   11,065,118
20   2024                   122,148      122,148     334,843    10,485,750     366,674   11,187,267   11,065,118
EIRR                54.5%
- 46 -



[Value of Unserved Energy ($/kWh)                                                   1       0,25001     0.25001-     0 2500      0 2500~
Value -of Red`ction in T. Losses (US cents/kWh)                                     I      0 0300!      0 04001 -     0450       0 04501
'Value -of Reduction in D. Losses (US centsfkWh                         I                  0.0441       0.     -    0061         0 06111
Value -of Additional Energ Sales (S/kWh                    I                        I      0 09861      0.0493      0 43         000
BASE ELECTRICITY DEMAND SCE4NARIO             ____
2000         2001        2003         2005    __2010           2015
Peak Demand (MW)                                ~~~~~~~~~1,214  1,205     1,205        1.205 -     1,284        1,544
Annsual Energ Consusiptios (GWh)                                  5,710       5,500        5.595       5,595        6,073       7,440
Annual Load Fact                                ~~~~~~53.7%   52.1%       53.0%        5730% -0    54 0%        55 0%1
Peak Demand (MW)                                 ~~~~~~~46.1   45.7        45 7         45 7         48 7        58 6
A  -1 E  (Mwh)                                 ~~~~~~~~~~218,400  210,300  213.932   213,932      232,192      284,488
AM   L ZFFactor (/.)                            ~~~~~54.1%    52 5%       53 4%        53 4%/      54 4%        55 5%
Annual EnerRy Sales (Mwh)                      ~~~~218,400  210,300      213,932     213,932      221,000      260,000
Number of Outages Per Year                       ~~~9.3       9.3         93           9.3         9.4          9
AvrgeLad During Outage (MW)                                      8 00        7.70         7 84        7.84         8 10         9 52
'es (MWh)                                ~~~     ~    ~~~~~320  308  313        313          327         389
Transmission Lse(W)4.42                                                     4.34         4 34         4.34        4.93         7 13
Transmission Lose (MWh)                                       14,209       1334        13,707      1l3,707      16,013       23,84
Distribution Lines and Associated Substations              ______
Distribution Losses (%/)                                    3.25%        3.13%       3 18%        3 18%/      3 29%        3 87%
-Distribution Losses (MWhf                                      7,560       6,999        7,247        7,247 -     7,795       10,982
Energy Demand isa pr fBerat substaton  h                       80,000      77,033       78,364      78,364 -     80,952      95,238
Prbblt  fDisti=inFalr= %                                      0           0           10           10          20           30__
Total Failurea or UnevdEeg(W)--                                                          7,836       7,836 -     16,190      28,571
T&D Losses (MWh)                                                  21,769      20,346       20,954      20,954       23,808       34,829
T&D Losses (%                                                   9.1%        8.8%         8 9%        8.9%         9 3%        10 9%
T&D Losses + Out &es (MWh)                                        21,769      20,346       28,790   ~  28,790       3999         63,400
T&D Losses + Outages %91%                                               1   88           19            .91471 2
With the New Pro'ect Investment
Annual Eniey Sales (MW2140                                                  2130         2193        2192         2212         2848
Transmission Lines and Associae Subsaions
Number of Outages Per Year222                                                                                        22
AveraLe Drtion Per Outage (ho;ura21                                                        1             2           21
Average Lo  Duiun Out e, MW                                      7.10        6.84         6.95        6.95         7 18         8 45
TrnmsinLosse (Mw320                                                    31315                    3135756
Transmission Losses (MWh)                                     10.287       9,663        9,923        9,923      11.593       17,264
Distribution Lines and Associated Substations
Distribution Losses3                                                                  1.6         16%          1.8%1)4
Distribution_Losses_(MWh)                               3_003_493_603_603_535_4
EnrgZDmand, in p     B erat substatioyns p.4Whl                80.000      77,033       78,364      78,36.4      80.952       95,238
rbblt  fD DitiuinFailure (%)                                     ________                               ________
Total Failures or Unserved Energy (MWh)                               _______     ________
T&D Losses + Outages (MWhI1S8                                                  282         1,84         1,9          547         2,0
T&D Losses + OutaRes O                                               .%         57            .%58/                     %75
Project Additional Sales MWII                                                                                       119          4,8
Proect Benefits
Transision Lines and Associated Substations
Reduction of outages (MWh)16                                                                          16            5            8
Value of Unserved Energ  S/kWh)                                                           .5          02           ,502
Rutais Benefits S661
Reutinin . Lise TMWi~s(/kh
Value of Reducto in03T.Losses (  Wit)
Benefits from Reduction in T. Losses S5                                                1,9          5,3         9,9          9,9
Total Tranmission BeneIt (S)                                                           5,           8,4         3,9          4,3
Distibution Lines and Assoiaed Sobstations
Total Unserved Energy frm Failures 7(836h)836_6_190                                                                          28_57
Value of Unserved Energv (US cents/kWh)                   0_25__0_25__0_25
--Un-served Energy Benefits (5)                           ___959_088 1_959_08__    _4_047_619
Reduction in Distribution Losses (MWh)                  3__987_3_987 3_941_5_139
Value of Reduction inD =ose ULents/kwh)                 0___4_0_06____06___06
Benefits firom 'eulon i.Lse (S)                                                       17_792_221_09            240_96_314_15
Total Distribution Benefits (S)21388                                                             21018        42858        74702
Be;nefits from Additional Sales______
Additional Sales (MWh)                                   ___11__192 _24__488_
Value of Additional Energ Sales (S/k Wht)                                                  10           50                     O
Additional SalesBnft S)
Grand Total Benefits S22495                                                      23815),5,4,                ,3,6
-47-



-,cosb -,= ,~  ;,Bnfts+'if:',
Investment    O&M Costs      Total Costs   Transmission   Distribution  Additional Sales  Total Benefits  Net Benefits
(S)            (S)           (S)           (S)             (S)           (S)            (S)            (S)
2002                                         -
2003      3,686,408                     3,686,408                                                      -         (3,686,408)
2004      3,686,408                     3,686,408                                                      -         (3,686,408)
1     2005                      147,456        147,456       187,948      2,180,188           -         2,368,135      2,220,679
2     2006                      147,456        147,456       197,877      2,601,868        105,872      2,905,617       2,758,160
3     2007                      147,456        147,456       207,806      3,023,548       211,744       3,443,098       3,295,641
4     2008                      147,456        147,456       217,735       3,445,228       317,616      3,980,579       3,833,123
5     2009                      147,456        147,456       227,664      3,866,908        423,489      4,518,060       4,370,604
6     2010                      147,456        147,456       237,593      4,288,588        529,361      5,055,541       4,908,085
7     2011                      147,456        147,456       258,622      4,922,273        671,352      5,852,246       5,704,790
8     2012                      147,456        147,456       279,651      5,555,957        813,343      6,648,951       6,501,495
9     2013                      147,456        147,456       300,681       6,189,642       955,334      7,445,656       7,298,200
10    2014                       147,456        147,456       321,710      6,823,327      1,097,325      8,242,362       8,094,905
11    2015                       147,456        147,456       342,739      7,457,012      1,239,316      9,039,067       8,891,610
12    2016                       147,456        147,456       342,739      7,457,012      1,239,316      9,039,067       8,891,610
13    2017                       147,456        147,456       342,739      7,457,012      1,239,316      9,039,067       8,891,610
14    2018                       147,456        147,456       342,739      7,457,012      1,239,316      9,039,067       8,891,610
15    2019                       147,456        147,456       342,739      7,457,012      1,239,316      9,039,067       8,891,610
16    2020                       147.456        147.456       342,739      7,457,012      1,239,316      9,039,067       8,891,610
17    2021                       147,456        147,456       342,739      7,457,012      1,239,316      9,039,067       8,891,610
18    2022                       147,456        147,456       342,739      7,457,012      1,239,316      9,039,067       8,891,610
19    2023                       147,456        147,456       342,739      7,457,012      1,239,316      9,039,067       8,891,610
20     2024                      147.456        147,456       342,739       7,457,012     1,239,316      9,039,067       8,891,610
EIRR                     41).5%
-48 -



IValue of Unserved Energy (S/Wh)                                                                   0.0419[                             [        00655
Value of Reduction in T Losses ($/kWh)                     JJt                                    0.03091        00437          00570~'1        0061
Value of Reduction in D. Losses (S/kWh)                    I                                       0.04511        00U5971        0.07481        008!
Val ue o f Additional Energy Sales (S/kWh)II______ I                                               0.00191              -0078    001481        -0 0123
______________________________________TtRANA REGION - Durres Zone
___________________________________BASE ELECTRICITY DEMAND SCENARIO
2000           2001      -    2003           2005           2010           2015
F,X ~~~Dc,,,d (M`W) ~~~1,214                                      1.205          1,205          1,205          1,284          1,544
Aninual Energy Consumption (GWh)                                    5,710          5,500          5,595          5,595          6,073          7,440
Annual Load Factor (%                                               53 7%          52.1%          53 0%          53.0%          54 0%          55.0%
Pro,elAe Unconstrained Demand (Customer Demand)
Peal Dmad (MW                                                          52           51.50           515            51.5           54.9           660
Annual Energ (MWh)                                                264,800        262,200        266.729        266,729        289,494        354,697
Annual Load Factor I%                                               58.1%/-        58 1%          59 1%          59 1%          60.2%          61 3%
Without the New Projeet Investment
Annual Energ Sales (MWhs                                          264,800        262 200        266,729        266,729        288,000        334,000
Transmission Lines and ASSociated Substations
Number of Outs es Per Year                                          8.6            8.6            8.6            8 6            8 89
Aver euain Per Outsae hours                                         3.5            3.5            35353.5                                      3 
Aver DeLoa5d Dun   OuseM                                          4 00           3.96           4.03           4 03           435            5.05
Total Outsges (MWh)                                                120            119            121            121            134            159
Transmission Losses MW'                                           1.25           1 23           1.23           1 23      _    I 39           2 01
Transmission Los.e M]VWh~                                        4,500          4,412          4.533          4,533          5,299          7,894
Distribution Lines and Associated Substations
Distribution Losses(%                                         5.57%         5.52%           5.61%          5.61%          6 06%          7 03%
Distribution Losses (M)Wh                                        15,000         14,704         15,219         15,219         17.768         24,020
Enr ,Deadin a at fDurs subsain     MWh]                  85,400         84,561         86,022          86,022        i12,882        107,718
Probability of Distribto  alr  %)                                   -              -              10              10            20              30-
Total Failures or Unserved Energy (MWh)                             .              -            8,602          8'0           18,576         3,1
T&D Losses (MWh)                                                    19,500         19,117         19,753         19,753         23,067         31,914
T&D Losses (/%)                                                  6.9%           6 8%           6.9%            6.9%           7 4%           8.3%
T&D Losses + Outages MWh                                            19,500         19,117         28,355         28,355         41,643         6,2
T&D Losses + Outages(%                                           6.9%           6.8%           9.6%            9 6%          12 6%          15 3%
Wihth  e  Projet Investment
Annual EeySaes (MWhs)                                             264,800        2,00           266,729        266,729        28354,69
Transmission Lines and Associated Substations
Number of Outages Per Year                                          4.1            4 1            41             4.1            4.1            417
Aversge Duration Per Outsge bhours                                  2 4            2.4            2 4            2.4            2.4            24
Aversg eLoadDuring Outae (MW                                       2.13          21t            215            2.15           2.33           285
Toa  ut  sMWh)                                                21             21             21             21             23             28
TrasissonLosses MW                                                0 43           0.42           0.42           0.20.48                       0.69
Transmission Lose (MWh                                           1,548          1,518          1,559          1.559          1,823          2.716
Distribution Lines and Associated Subst-ations
Distribution Losses %.)-                                          2.10%     2 08%          2.1 1%         2 _f .11%       229%           2.81%
Distribution Lossea (MWIi                                         5,590          5,480          5,672          5,672 1        6,684         10,048
En  ead ;inar fDresubstations IMWhl                       85,400         84,561         802            86,022         92,882        107,718
Prbgiy  af DistrbutonFalue%                                       -              --
Total Failure or Unserved Energ (MWw                                -              -              --                            -           10,772
T&D Losses   hWI                                                     7.138          6,998          7,231          7.231          8,507          12 763
T&D Locsss%26                                                                        2.6%           26             2.16%          2.9%          '3 5%F/
T&D Losses + Outsges (MWh)                                           7.138          6,998          7,231          7.231          8,507         23,535
T&D Loses    Outages ()2.6%                                                          2.6%           2.6%1          2.6%           2.9%           6.2%
ProctAdditional Sales (MWh)                                         -              -              -              -            1442              9
Reduction of outages (MWh)                            _____100                                too -          III            131
_-7alue - =f Unserved Energy (YkWh)  ~~~O ~042                                            0.049          0.056          0.065
OutaRes Benefits 11)                                                 ~   ~~~~~~~~~~4,193  4,879       6.273          8,567
Reduction in T. Losses (Mwh)                                          ~~~~~~~2,974     2,974          3465 178
Value oFRed-ucfion in T.Losses ($/kWh)   ~0.031                                        0.044         0070066
Benefits from Reduction in T. Losses (S)                              91,8911        129,983        198,139        342,213
Totai Tmnsmission Benefit96,083                                                                        134,862        204,412        35078
Total Unserved Energ from Failures (MWh)8 602                                          8,602     _   18,576         21 544
Value of Unserved Energy (S/kWh)                                      ~~~~~0.042      0.049          0.056           0.065
Unserved Energy   ene ts (                                           ~~~~~~~~~3T 0,064  419,050   1,049,071       1,410,409
V-alue -of Aedditionl En U.Lsales (S/kWh)                                                        0.002          0.0608         0.015          0.082
Additional Sales Benft S-                                                                                       .(22,088)                 254,11
Grand Total Benerits (S                                                       886,875       1,123,614 1    2,060,222      2,696,050
-49 -



Investment  O&M Costs    Total Costs  Transmission  Distribution Additional Sales Total Benefits  Net Benefits
(S)         (S)         (S)          (S)         (S)          (5)          (S)           (S)
2002
2003    3,244,424                3,244,424                                              -        (3,244,424)
2004    3,373,389                3,373,389                                              -        (3,373,389)
1   2005                   132,356     132,356     134,862      988,752         -      1,123,614       991,257
2   2006                   134,871     134,871     148,772     1,166,581     (4,418)    1,310,935     1,176,064
3   2007                   137,434     137,434     162,682     1,344,410     (8,835)    1,498,257     1,360,823
4    2008                  140,045     140,045      176,592    1,522,239    (13,253)    1,685,579      1,545,534
5   2009                   142,706     142,706     190,502     1,700,069    (17,670)    1,872,900     1,730,195
6   2010                   145,417     145,417     204,412     1,877,898    (22,088)   2,060,222       1,914,805
7   2011                   148,180     148,180     233,686    2,022,196     (68,494)   2,187,388      2,039,208
8   2012                   150,995     150,995     262,959    2,166,494    (114,900)   2,314,553      2,163,558
9   2013                   153,864     153,864     292,233    2,310,792    (161,306)   2,441,719      2,287,854
10   2014                  156,788      156,788     321,506    2,455,090    (207,712)   2,568,884      2,412,096
11   2015                  159,767      159,767     350,780    2,599,388    (254,118)   2,696,050      2,536,283
12   2016                  162,802      162,802     357,444    2,648,776    (258,946)   2,747,275      2,584,472
13   2017                  165,896      165,896     364,236    2,699,103    (263,866)   2,799,473      2,633,577
14   2018                  169,048      169,048     371,156    2,750,386    (268,880)   2,852,663      2,683,615
15   2019                  172,259      172,259     378,208    2,802,643    (273,988)   2,906,863      2,734,604
16   2020                  175,532      175,532     385,394    2,855,893    (279,194)   2,962,094      2,786,561
17   2021                  178,867      178,867     392,717    2,910,155    (284,499)   3,018,374      2,839,506
18   2022                  182,266      182,266     400,178    2,965,448    (289,904)   3,075,723      2,893,457
19   2023                  185,729      185,729     407,782    3,021,792    (295,412)   3,134,161      2,948,432
20   2022                   189,258     189,258     415,530     3,079,206   (301,025)    3,193,710      3,004,453
22.1%
- 50 -



Value of Unserved Energy (S/kWh)                                                             2 41  .48,~  0 05651    0 06551
Value of Reduction in T. LosO SkW)1                                                '309'     0037        0 05701     00661~
Value of Reduction in D oss(Skh                                 _____04511                   0.05971~    0 0748[     0 08511
Value of Additional Energy Sales (S/kWh)                                  J      0019(      -0.0078J    -001481     -0 0123]
____ ____ ____ ____ ___ ____ ____ ____ ___ ____ ____ ____ ___ ELBASAN   REG ION   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _
BASE ELECTRICITY DEMAND SCENARIO
2000        2001       2003        2005        2010        2015
NatIonal Demand Forecast
Peak Demand (MWI                                          1,214      1,205       1,205       I 205 -     1,284      1,544
Annual Energ Conu ption (GWh                             5,710       5,500       5,595      5,595 -     6,073       7,440
Annual Load Factor %                                     53.7%       52 1%       53.0%      53.0%  -     54 0%      55 0%
Pro net Area Uconstrained Demand (Customer I)emand)
Pea Dema  (MW                                                                                                  ____
Annual Eneg (MW                                         120,100     115,500    117,495     117,495 -   127,523     156,245
Annual Load Factor %57 8%                                            56.1%       57.1%      57.1% -      58 1%     -59 2%
Without the New Pro ect Investment______
AnulEe Sales (MWh)                                120,100     115,500     117,495     117,495     1 27,000   149,000
TrnsisinLine and Associated Substations
unrof Outsges Per Year                                7171                    .                                   .
Avers uration Per Outse hours                                         6_36_3_6_3_ 3____                               6
Ave e LodDunn. OaeM                                     4.60        4.42       4.50        4 50 -      4.86        5 71
Total Outses (MWh
TrnMisio Losses (MW)12                                             .312                     320
Transmission Losses (MWhs                              4,465             4 14   299      4-299        5,023       7,483
Distriburion Lines and Associated Substations
Distribution Losses(%                               17.50%      16.83%      17.12%     17.12%      18.51%      21.71%
Distribution Losse (W)21,800                                      20,144      20,853      20,853      24,433      33,976
Ene  Dema  ins rto Elbasan substations M-g         96009,96                        ~93,996 __     102,019     12,9
Probability of Distribution Failure (M)                                          10          10          20          30
Total Failures or Unserved Energ (MWh)           _____-                        940    9 4    00       2,0         37,499
T&D Losses (MWh)                                          26,265     24,328      25,151 _  _2;5,151      29,456     41,459
T&D Losses 1%)                                         17 9%       17.4%       17.6%       17 6%      18 8%       210%
T&D Losses + Outage                                      26MWI5      24328       34,551      34,551      49,860     78,957
T&D Losses + Outsge, %71.                              17.90o      174%        22.7%      22.7%   1   28 1%       33 6%
With the New Pron Investment                                                                         _____
Annual En:VSa es (M W h                                 2,0         1,          1,9         1,9         2,2         5,4
Transmission Lines and Associated Substations
Number of Oustages Per Year                               71717                               . 
Aver ge Duraion Per Outsge our                                                                  _______
AveracL   DuringOutage MW 
Tota    es (MWh) 
Tranmisio LossesM
Transmnission Losses (MWh535051                                                             566389
Distribution Lines and Associated Substations
Distribution Losses (%                              7.73%       7 43%       7.56%       7.56       8C2 1%_     10.0%
Distribution Losses (MWh35                                         863         894       -g9-          056        1,0
Ene  Demand in a it o Elbasan substations MWhl         96 080     92,400      93,996      93,996     102,019     124,996
Totsl Failures or UnsevdEneg (M4h 
T&D Losses (MW9119i2                                                               ,401,9                            1,0
T&D Losses %1.                                              .1.        73           .1.       T              %97
T&D Losses + Outags caMWh                                  ,6          ,2          ,4          ,4         119        1,0
T&  oss+Outsges_____                                                                                       ____
Pr ne Ad iional Sales (MV
Project Benet ts
Transmission Lines and Associated Substations
Reduction of outs es (Mwh                                                                    1           2          5
Value of Unserve Energ (/Wh)042                                                            O 9         005006
Ot"s Benefits (S)485                                                                      562         719        008
Value of Reductioni T. Losses (S/W003                                                     004           05006
Ben-efits fro Reutini T. Losses S5                                            1,8         6,3                    3,5
Total Transmission Beeits                                                    12$0                        1       4,4
Distribution Lines and Associated Subtations  _______
Total Unserved Eneg from Failures (MWh)_______                                 9,400       9,400      20,404     37,499
Value of Unserved EnF  mh                                                       .4         .4          .5           6
Unserved Eneg Benetits (S)                                                    9,4        478-       ,5,6        ,5,7
Reduction in Distribution Losses _MWh __11_928_1___8                                                 13_917_18_17
-Value of Reductio inD.Osses                     0_05__0600_05___8
Benefits frm Reucin in D. Losses (S                                          53_11_1178_1_4061__56_4
Total Distribution Benefits (S                                               931_____72  1,169,652  2,192,914  4,001 416
Benefits ftm Additiona Saces__________
Additional Sales (MWh)                                                  ______
Value of Additional E  aes S/0kWhoof                                                                  ( 05        (.1
Additioa Sales Bonefits (S)                                                                    1-      ,3)       (897
Grand Total Benefits (S)                                       ,5,7        ,4,7        ,4,9        ,5,0
-51-



Cosh~~~~*$7~f ,- -,f=.^-li; 'R,-Bfl:           -~ -- 
Investment  O&M Costs    Total Costs  Transmission  Distribution Additional Sales Total Benefits  Net Benefits
(S)          (S)        ($)          (S)          ($)         (S)         ($)          ($)
2002
2003    3,199,755                3,199,755                                              -      (3,199,755)
2004    3,326,911                3,326,911                                              -      (3,326,911)
1   2005                   130,533     130,533     171,021     1,169,652        -      1,340,673    1,210,140
2    2006                  133,013     133,013     188,659     1,374,305     (1,547)    1,561,417   1,428,403
3   2007                   135,541     135,541     206,297     1,578,957     (3,094)    1,782,160   1,646,620
4    2008                  138,116     138,116     223,935     1,783,609     (4,640)   2,002,904    1,864,788
5   2009                   140,740     140,740     241,574     1,988,261     (6,187)   2,223,648    2,082,908
6    2010                  143,414     143,414     259,212     2,192,914     (7,734)   2,444,392    2,300,977
7    2011                  146,139     146,139     296,419     2,554,614    (23,979)   2,827,054    2,680,915
8   2012                   148,916     148,916     333,625    2,916,315     (40,223)   3,209,717    3,060,801
9    2013                  151,745     151,745     370,832     3,278,015    (56,468)    3,592,379   3,440,634
10   2014                  154,628      154,628     408,039    3,639,716     (72,713)   3,975,042    3,820,414
11   2015                  157,566      157,566     445,245    4,001,416     (88,957)   4,357,704    4,200,138
12   2016                  160,560      160,560     453,705    4,077,443     (90,647)   4,440,501    4,279,941
13   2017                  163,611      163,611     462,325    4,154,915     (92,370)   4,524,870    4,361,260
14   2018                  166,719      166,719     471,109    4,233,858     (94,125)   4,610,843    4,444,124
15   2019                  169,887      169,887     480,061    4,314,302     (95,913)   4,698,449    4,528,562
16   2020                  173,115      173,115     489,182    4,396,273     (97,735)   4,787,719    4,614,605
17   2021                  176,404      176,404     498,476    4,479,802     (99,592)   4,878,686    4,702,282
18   2022                  179,756      179,756     507,947    4,564,919    (101,485)   4,971,381    4,791,626
19   2023                  183,171      183,171     517,598    4,651,652    (103,413)   5,065,837    4,882,666
20   2024                   186,651     186,651     527,433     4,740,034    (105,378)   5,162,088   4,975,437
*FRR      ,         27.5%
- 52-



IValue of Unserved Energy (S/kWh)                           I             II                     -0 04-191    -0-0-4-87T -     0 05651        006551
Value of Reduction in T Losses S$/kWh)                                                           0 03091        0.0437         0057          2.066-1
Value of Reduction in D Losses (S/kWh)                                                           0 04511        0.005971       00748         0 0851]
Value of Additional Energ Sales S/kWh)                                                           0 0019        -00078         -0 01481       -0 0123]
UOVA 0EIO
BAS   ELCRCITY DEN AD SCENARIO
200 -  205r             0-3-         2005           2010          2015
NtoalA  Demand Forecast
__ Peak Demarnd (MW)                                                  1.214          1.205          1.205         1,205          1,284          1,544
Annual Energ Consumption (GWh)                                     5,710          5,500         5,595          5,595          6,073          7.440
__ Annual-Load Factor(%)       .nd         _________a_n __            53.7%          52.1%         53.0%          53 0%          54 0%          55 0%
___Pr"j'  Ae UncosriedDmn            (CustoerDead
Pea' Dean (MW)                                                       46 1          45.7           45.7           45.7           48.7           58.6
___Annual Energy (MWh)                                              218 400       210,300        213,932        213,932        232,192        284.488
___Annual Load Factor I%                    ________                  54 1%          52.5%         53.4%          53 4%          54 4%          55 5%
Without the N ew Pro cc Investtnent
Annual Energy Sales (MWh)                                        21,0          210,300        213,932        213,932        221,000        260,000
Transmission Lines and Associated Substationw:
__  Number of Outages Per Year                                         9 3            9 3            9 3            9.3           9.4            9 5
__  Averge Durtion Per Outage (hours)                                  4 3           4 3            4 3            4 3            4 3            4 3
___  Average Loa DurinR Outage (MW)                                    8.00          7.70           7 84           7.84  -        8 10           9 52
__  Total Outage  (MWhs)                                              320-           308            3 13          313   -        327            389
Transmission Lse(M     )4.42                                                    4.34           4.34          4 34           4.93           7 13
Transmission Lose  MWh)                                        14,209         13.347         13,707         13,707        16,013         23.846
Distribution Lines and Associated Substations
Distribution Losses %3.25%                                                 3.13%          3 18%          3.18%          3 29%          3 87%
Distribution Losses (MWh)                                        7,560         6,999          7,247          7,247          7,795         10,982
Energy   mand in a.   of BrtsubsatOr's [MWhl                    80,000        77,033         78,364         78,364         80,952         95,238
Probbii  ofOitr Von Faiue%)                                          0             0             10             10             20             30
Total Failurs or UnLserved Energ  MWh)                             -                          7,836          7,836         16,190         28,571
T&D Losses (MWh)                                                   21,769         20,34         20,954         20,954         23,808         34,829
T&D Losses                                                      91%            8.8%           8.9%           8.9%           9 3%          to09%
T&  oss+Ots aes MWh                                         21,769        20,346         28,790         28,790         39,999         63,400
T&D Losses +Outages(%                    _______                 91%           8 8%          11.9%          11 9%           14 7%         18.2%
With the New ProectInvesment
Annual Ener   Sales M  h)________                                218,400       210,300        213,932        213,932        232,192        284,488
Transmission Lines and Associate Substations
Numaber of Outages Per Year               .2                                       2              2              2              2              2
__  Average Dutin e Outtagge (hours)                                    1 2            12             12            1 2            12             1 2
__  Average LaDuigOutg (MW)                                           7.10           6 84           6.95           6.95  -        7 18          8 45
__  Total Outages (MWh)                                              170 4          164.1          166.9          166.9          172 4         202 9
__  Transmission Losses (MW)                                          3.20          3 14           3.A5           3.15  -        3 57           5 16
___    Trnsmission Losses (MWh)                                       10.287         9,663          9,923          9,923         11,593         17,264
Di-stnbution L'ines and Associated Substations                                                                         ______
Distribution Losses (%                                       I 490/a       1.43%          1 46%          1.46%          I 58%          I 94%-
Distribution Losses (MWh)                                        3,400         3,149          3,260          3,260          3,853          5,844
___ Energy Demand ins ar ofBeatsubstatiors [MWh]                    80,060        77,033         78,364         78,364         8095           95,238
___ Prbb,iy of DistributonFailure ()                                     0              0              0              0l             0             0
Toa  aiue or Unserved Enceg (MWh_                                0.             0              0              0              0             0
T&D Losses (MWh                                                    13~6,87        12,812         13,184         13,184        15,447         23,108
T&D Losses (%                                                        5.%            5.7%          5 8%           5 8%           6.2%           7 5%
T&D Losses +Outages (MWh)                                         1I3,68          12,812         13,184         13,184        15,447         23,108
___T&D Losses + Outage ()5.9%                                                         5.7%           5.8%           5.8%  -        6 2%           7 5%
Project.Additfional Sals(Whs)                                        --                           -              .11,192                    24,488
_ _ Project  Itnelits__                                            _ _  _ _   __  _ _ _ _    __  _ _ _ _    __ _  _ _ _      _  _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _  _ _
Transmission Lines and Associated Substations                                             ______        ______
___  Reduction of outages (MWh)                               ______         ______146                             146            155            186
___  Value of Unserved Energy ($/kWh)                        ______          ______0.042                         0.049   -      0 056          0.065
_ _  Outge   B eft()_                                                           _ _ _ __6,130                    7,3            8,4           12,190
___ Rduction in T Losses (M Wh)                                            _______3,783                         3,783          4,420          6,582
___  Value of Reduction in T Lo'sss(S/kWh)                                  ______0.031                          0.044          0 057          0 066
___  Benefits from Reduction mn T.osses (S)                                                      116____904    165,365        251,957        434,967
___  Total Transmissin Bee )t Su                                             _____               123,035        172,500       260,698        447,157
Distribution Lines and AsoitdSbstations______
Total Unserved EnegfrmFiue(MI______                                                           7,836          7,836         16,190        28,571
____     alue o-f UnsevdErg (S/IkWh)                                          ______0,042                          0.049           0.056         0 065
Unserved Ene   Benfit L(_____)                                                             328,007        381,742        9132          18752
___  Reduction in Disrbto   osses 3MW987___3_987                                                                                3,941          5,139
___  Value of Reduction in D.Losses (S/k Wh)                                _______0 045                         0.060          0.075          0.085
__  Benefits from Reduction in D. Losses (5)                                                    179_____872~0  23790          294,737       437,271
___  Total Distribution, Beneft (07)87                                                                         61,4          1,209230778
___  enefits_fiom_Additional_Sales                                           ______          ______
___  Additional Saes (MWh)                                                  ______        ______         ______11,192                         24,488
___  Value of Additional Energy Sales (/W)______                                                  0.002         (0.008)        (0 015)         (. 2
_ _ Additional Sales Benefits (S)                            _ _ _ _ _ _    __ _ _ _  __   _ _ _ _ _ __   _ _ _ _ _ __       (165,440)      (3006 5
F ]              ~~~~Grand Total Beneit S)______                            ______              630,9 12      792,146 ,     1,304,323      2,454,275
-53-



Costs                          -               -r-, ,',-   Benelis,
Investment   O&M Costs     Total Costs  Transmission  Distribution  Additional Sales Total Benefits  Net Benefits
($)           ($)          ($)          ($)           ($)          ($)          ($)           ($)
2002
2003     3,861,154                  3,861,154                                                  -      (3,861,154)
2004     4,014,657                  4,014,657                                                  -      (4,014,657)
1    2005                    157,516      157,516      172,500       619,647          -         792,146      634,630
2    2006                    160,509      160,509       190,139      737,530       (33,088)     894,582      734,073
3    2007                    163,559      163,559       207,779      855,414       (66,176)     997,017       833,458
4    2008                    166,666      166,666       225,419      973,298       (99,264)    1,099,452      932,786
5    2009                    169,833      169,833      243,059      1,091,182     (132,352)    1,201,888    1,032,055
6    2010                    173,060      173,060      260,698      1,209,066     (165,440)    1,304,323    1,131,264
7    2011                    176,348      176,348      297,990      1,428,809     (192,485)    1,534,314    1,357,966
8    2012                    179,699      179,699       335,282     1,648,552     (219,530)    1,764,304    1,584,605
9    2013                    183,113      183,113       372,573     1,868,296     (246,575)    1,994,294    1,811,181
10    2014                    186,592      186,592      409,865     2,088,039      (273,620)   2,224,285     2,037,693
11    2015                    190,137      190,137      447,157     2,307,783      (300,665)   2,454,275     2,264,138
12    2016                    193,750      193,750      455,653     2,351,631      (306,377)   2,500,906     2,307,156
13    2017                    197,431      197,431      464,310     2,396,312      (312,199)   2,548,423     2,350,992
14    2018                   201,182       201,182      473,132     2,441,842      (318,130)   2,596,843     2,395,661
15    2019                    205,005      205,005      482,121     2,488,237      (324,175)    2,646,183    2,441,179
16    2020                   208,900       208,900      491,282     2,535,513      (330,334)   2,696,461     2,487,561
17    2021                    212,869      212,869      500,616     2,583,688      (336,610)    2,747,694    2,534,825
18    2022                   216,913       216,913      510,128     2,632,778      (343,006)   2,799,900     2,582,986
19    2023                    221,035      221,035      519,820     2,682,801      (349,523)    2,853,098    2,632,063
20    2024                    225,234      225,234       529,697     2,733,774     (356,164)    2,907,307    2,682,072
FIRR                 14.7%
Main Assumptions:
1. Assumptions for the Economic Calculations
The data are shown in constant year 2002 prices.
Value of Unserved Energy. For all the years of the project's life, the economic value was
assumed to be US$0.025/kWh.
Value of Reduction in Transmission Losses. Transmission losses are valued at the cost of
marginal electricity supply, taken to be imported electricity, valued at US$ 0.04 from 2005 to
2009, and US$ 0.045 in 2010 and after.
- 54 -



Value of Reduction in Distribiution Losses. For all years, the value of reduction in distribution
losses is equal to the value of reduction in transmission losses (defined above) divided by 0.88 to
adjust for transmission losses, plus US$ 0.01/kWh for operating costs of transmission.
Value of Additional Energy Sales. For all years it is equal to the difference between:
1. the average of the weighted average cost of electricity production by individual residential,
commercial and industrial customers (computed at US$ 0.1571/kWh) and the average retail
tariff of KESH (US$ 0.045 for 2005, US$ 0.05 for subsequent years); and
2. the value of reduction in transmission losses (described above) adjusted for technical
distribution losses (assumed to be 22.7% through 2005, decreasing to 20% in 2010 and 15%
in 2015).
2. Assumptions for the Financial Calculations
The data are shown in current prices.
Value of Unserved Energy. For 2005, it is equal to the project average KESH retail tariff of
Lek 6.82/kWh, converted to US dollars using an exchange rate of Lek 140/US dollar. The 2005
value is equal to US$ 0.0487/kWVh. It was projected to increase thereafter by the rate of inflation,
projected to be 3% per year.
Value of Reduction in Transinission Losses. For 2005, the value is the estimated import price
of US$ 0.04/kWh adjusted for inflation of 3% per year from 2002 through 2004. For 2010 and
2015, the value is US 0.045 (expected import price), adjusted by inflation of 3% per year for 8
and 13 years respectively.
Value of Reduction in Distribution Losses. For all years, the value is equal to the value of
reduction in transmission losses (defined above) divided by 0.88 to adjust for transmission losses,
plus the value of US$ 0.01/kWh for transmission operating costs.
Value of Additional Energy S,ales. For 2005, the value is equal to the difference between the
tariff rate of US$ 0.0487/kWh (Lek 6.82), and the value of reduction in transmission losses
divided by 1.773 to adjust for distribution losses. For 2010 and 2015 it is equal to the difference
between:
1. the projected 2005 tariff rate inflated by 3% per year; and
2. the value of reduction in tramsmission losses adjusted for distribution losses assumed to be
20% in 2010 and 15% in 2015.
The data for intermediate years between 2005 and 2010, and between 2010 and 2015 were
estimated by linear interpolation. For the years after 2015, the values for 2015 were kept constant
in real terms, with conversion to nominal prices by assumed inflation of 3% per year.
The following table shows the historical electricity balances for Albania from 1998 to 2001, with
forecasts for 2002 to 2008.
- 55 -



Bakun      of Elecriy m Albaian Power System
___Actal                                                      Forecast
I.  -___  1999    2nl    29D1 |200         20c3      2004 |200s 206            207       2008
Gen         __on                          1 _       5,054    5,3841    4,       3679     4,130    4,130    4,130    4,130    4,730     4,730    53
Hydro Gei=ahon                    (H)                   5,271    4,586    3,542    4,050    4,050    4,05      4,050    4,050    4,050    4,05
Th Gm Comnafaa                    m1)                   113      143       137       80       80       8(       8       680      680     1,2s
lant Consnm    n                         2              2       29       Z        33       65        65       65       65       65       65        6
ElehySu wliedbyEPP                        P                                        5 _     2 5       20       20       20       20       2         2
E      5g Supphed m Trnmiai           3=(1-2)+P     5,032     5,355    4,701    3,651    4,085    4,085    4,085    4,085     4,685    4,685    5,28
Delived                                  (E)                   755      22         6 69
Roomed      __________                   ()1,113                       1,224    1,819    1,500    1,500   .1,50     1,500      841      729      351
Diffice                               4() |-         -378     -358    -1,00    -1,750   -1,50       -1,0   -1       -1,500     -841     -729     -35
Trainunon                              5'(3-4)      5,410    5,713     5,703    5,401    5,5            ___5         5,55     556      5,414
LAMim Trmannisxm                         6            76       720      71       601      64        615      595      575      555      535       52
Loss_s m %                             7=(6/5)       1421     IZ60     1245     11.13    11.46    11.01    10.65     1030     100       9 88     9 2:
Bilted Cnsnfiol   T)                      8          1,439    1,472    1,40     1,156       1        I         6                 1 8      19      21
Erfg Supplied in Distribunon             9          3,202     3,521    3,58     3,644    4,931    4,955    4,97     4,993     4,953    4,86(    5,10
Smalt HPP                                10            13        1         8        6
IKtrion                               11=(9+10)     3,215     3,533    359      3,650    4,931    4,955    4,974     4,993    4,93     4,       5,l
L   nss m Distinbuon                     12          1,800    1,86     1,769    1,4571   1,691    1,548     1,398    1,253     97        682      71
Ioss n (/o)                           13'12/l 1     55.99     52.      49.21    39.92    3429     312      28.11     25.10    19.66    14 03     14.
TCdMr Loss                               14           600      686      69        685      840      805      775      745       720               71
Thcdmi Losses /o)                      14111         18.7     19.4     19.       18.8     17.0     16.2     I5.6     14.9      14 5     14.(     14.
Non Tomikal1L                            15          1,199    1,182    1,07       772      851      743      623       508      254        0
NonTeical Loss/0)                       15/11        37.3      33.5     29.      21.2     17.3     15.       12.      10 2      5.1      0.        0.
BiDledCunpon 0)(D)                       16          1,416    1,665    1,825    Z192     3,24     3,40     3,574     3,740    3,979    4,17t    4,38.
SUIPPJEDTOGRID            | 17=(5+10)       5,423    5,725    5,711    5,407    5,5851   5,585     5,585J   5,585J   5,526    5,4141    5,64t
ALlS                           | 18=(6+12) |    2,569    2        2,479     2,058    2,3311   2,163    1,993     1828j    1,529    1,217
/oofTUrALLOSSES                    j 19=(18/17) 1   4737     45.191   43.411    38.061   41.74    38.731   35.68J   32.731    2767     2248j    2l8t
B   d Co   mpi    TUTAL                I=2+4)           5     3,07     3,231    3,3481   3,254    3,422    3,592     3,757    3,997    4,197    4
BiDed C  amnp4ion in T  a    Mus.         2          1,439    1,472    1, 406   1,1561      1        I5       6        1 7      18       19       2(
a).PI .                                                T     985      975       849        
b)      . Di-  lCriorn                                       488      431       307
Cmwpimn   n  Distniuxn|                3=(4+5)      2,615     2,847    2,89     2,964    4,091    4,150    4,199     4,248    4,233    4,178    4,38(
Bi.ld.Consi    oniDis      o             4           1,416    1,665    1,825    2,192    3,2401   3,4071   3,576     3,7401   3,9791   4,171    4,3
nbi1edGCxauniptionmDiiib.                 5                   1,182    1,072      772      8511     7431     6231      5081     254 (
HousehdBiCnsuntiCn                       6                    1,216    1,36     1,590    2,216    2,3191   2,4281    2,5291
sholdBiLcdCons.m (lo)                  7=(6/1)      34.89     38.76    42.151   47.491   68.101   67.771   67.51     67311         i        |
Sours: KESH for hisloical dala; Two-Year Action Plan (Jamary 2002 revmiion) for pjections to 2005; Bank Staffesimates for sabquent yeas
For the years prior to 2002, the pilot corporations were separate from KESH, and they purchased
electricity from KESH. For those years, the data shown for billed and unbilled consumption in distribution
(including households), technical and non-technical losses in distribution are for KESH only and exclude
the corresponding figures for the pilot corporations. For the year 2002 and after, the distribution activities
of the pilot corporations are assumed to be absorbed into KESH; therefore the data for their billed and
unbilled consumption in distribution (including households), technical and non-technical losses in
distribution are included in the KESH totals.
- 56 -



Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Sensitivity tests were carried out with respect to the economic rate of return by making estimates of the
switching values of critical variables. The switching value is that value of a variable which causes the rate
of return to be equal to the opportunity cost (estimated at 12% for Albania).
The results are as follows:
-      The switching value of the investment cost is 479% above the project cost estimate.
-      If the value of unserved energy were zero, the economic rate of return would be 13%.
-      If the benefit of reduction in losses were zero, the economic rate of return would be 42%.
-      If both the benefits of reduction in losses and additional sales were zero, the economic rate of
return would be 41%.
These results show that by far the largest benefit comes from reducing unserved energy by cutting down on
outages, but the project would be economic even without this benefit.
- 57 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ALBANIA: Power Sector Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project
KESH - Summary of Financial Statement Items
(million lek)
2000       2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006     2007    2008
Actual Estimate                       Projected
Income Statement Items
Billed revenues                        11748   13297   18549   20947   23601   26554   28947   31249   33931
Operating income (without import subsidy)  -2600  -4703  -1159   -88    1287    3076    4378    6185    6741
Operating income (with import subsidy)   944    -303    1655    2228    3282    3076    4378    6185    6741
Net income                                38    -561     696     984    1792    1694    2185    3396    3745
Funds Statement Items
Intemal sources                                 3939    5470    6109    6988    6786    8137   10025    11025
Borrowings                                      4728    5575    4840    4970    4330    6000    6000    6000
Equity investment                                        826
Total sources                                 8667    11872   10949   11958   11116   14382   16025   17025
Capital expenditures                            5228    8770    8000    8000    8000   15000   15000    15000
Working capital                                 3763    2341    1839     805    -669    -384     1407    1152
Loan amortization                                100     979     713     900     900    1352    1546     1651
Changes in cash balances                        -424    -219     398    2253    2885   -1587   -1928     -777
Total applications                            8667    11872   10949   11958   11116   14382   16025   17025
Balance Sheet Items
Current assets                         17255   16112   17050   17062   18594   20118   18982    17396   16974
Net fixed assets                       21588   24316   29996   34496   38526   42126   51910    60878   69030
Other assets                             826     826
Total assets                         39670   41255    47046   51558   57120   62244   70892   78274   86004
Current liabilities                     8132    5100    6375    5625    5175    5025    6445     5801    5437
Long term debt                          9982   15159   19660   23938   28158   31738   36781    41410   45759
Total liabilities                    18114   20259   26035    29563   33333   36763   43225   47211   51196
Equity                                 21557   20996   21011   21995   23787   25482   27667    31063   34808
Total liabilities and equity         39670   41255   47046   51558   57120   62244   70892    78274   86004
Financial ratios
Operating ratio (without import subsidy)  1.22  1.35     1.06    1.00    0.95    0.88    0.85    0.80    0.80
Operating ratio (with import subsidy)   0.94    1.02     0.92    0.90    0.87    0.88    0.85    0.80    0.80
Working ratio (without import subsidy)  1.02    1.17     0.90    0.84    0.78    0.72    0.67    0.61    0.60
Working ratio (with import subsidy)     0.78    0.88     0.78    0.75    0.72    0.72    0.67    0.61    0.60
Collection ratio (excluding arrears)    61.6    71.9    82.4     85.5
Collection ratio (including arrears)            81.2    89.9     92.2    94.0    95.0    96.0    97.0    98.0
Self-financing of investment (%)                  10      36      40      38      46      60       60      60
Self-financing of investment (3 yr. avg.) %               28      38      41      48      55      60       62
Debt service coverage                                    1.5     1.6     2.0      1.8     1.6     1 9     1.8
Current ratio                            2.0     2.1     3.2     2.7      3.0     3.6     4.0     2.9     3.0
Debt to capitalization ratio             29       30      41      48      52      54      55       57      5
Note: For the years 1999 to 2001, excluding the three pilot distribution companies.
From 2002 onwards, including the pilot companies.
- 58 -



KESH - INCOME STATEMENTS
(million lek)
1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008
Actual  Actual Estimate                       Projected
OPERATING REVENUES
Sales of electricity                9568   11030   12455   17677   20058   22694   25628   28003   30286   32949
Other revenue                        741     718     842     872     889     907     925     944     963     982
Total operating revenues          10309   11748   13297   18549   20947   23601   26554   28947   31249   33931
OPERATING EXPENSES
Electricity imports                 1826    4590    8231    7320    7687    8071    8474    4817    4384    2242
Personnel expenses                  2882    3003    3069    3679    3850    4235    4659    4775    4895    5017
Fuels                               2096    1011    1200     905     905     905     905    4265    4265    7625
Materials and spares                        1249    1000    2780    3180    3580    3980    4370    4479    4591
Less: Capitalized items             -360    -507    -500    -500    -500    -500    -500    -500    -500    -500
Other expenses                       665     592     500     750     788     827     868     890     912     935
Depreciation                        2288    2376    2500    3090    3500    3970    4400    5216    6032    6848
Provision for bad debt              3486    2034    2000    1684    1625    1226     692     736     597     433
Total operating expenses          12883   14348   18000   19708   21035   22314   23478   24569   25064   27191
OPERATING MARGIN                   .2574   -2600   -4703   -1159     -88    1287    3076    4378    6185    6741
OTHER REVENUES
Subsidies for electricity imports   1032    3544    4400    2814    2316    1995
Other income                         636     129              28      28      28      28      28      28      28
OTHER EXPENSES
Interest payments                                    134     192     429     513     596     687     782     872
Other expenses                               148
EXTRAORDINARY GAINS/(LOSSES)        -125     228
NET INCOME BEFORE TAXES            -1031    1153    -437    1491    1827    2797    2507    3719    5431    5897
Profittax                           231     1115     124     795     843    1005     813    1534    2035    2152
NET INCOME AFTER TAX               -1262      38    -561     696     984    1792    1694    2185    3396    3745
Note: For the years 1999 to 2001, excluding the three pilot distribution companies.
From 2002 onwards, including the pilot companies.
- 59 -



KESH - BALANCE SHEETS
(million lek)
1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008
Actual  Actual  Estimate                        Projected
ASSETS
Cash and banks                   882     803     380     161     559    2812    5697    4110    2183    1406
Trade receivables (gross)              22413   25411   29052   30941   32066   32055   33175   34084   34743
Less: Provisions for bad debt          13829   15829   17513   19138   20364   21056   21792   22389   22821
Trade receivables (net)         5288    8584    9582   11539   11803   11702   10999   11383   11695   11921
Other receivables               2601    2359    2000    1500    1500    1500    1500    1500    1500    1500
Prepaid expenses                3185    2801    2250    1900    1500    1000     500     500     500     500
Inventories                     1584    2708    1900    1950    1700    1580    1422    1488    1518    1647
Total current assets         13539   17255   16112   17050   17062   18594   20118   18982   17396   16974
Gross fixed assets             41429   41469   47365   56885   64885   72885   80885   95885  110885  125885
Less: Accumulated depreciation  18923  21299   23799   26889   30389   34359   38759   43975   50007   56855
Work in progress                        1418     750
Net fixed assets               22506   21588   24316   29996   34496   38526   42126   51910   60878   69030
Investments                              826     826
Total assets                 36045   39670   41255   47046   51558   57120   62244   70892   78274    86004
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Trade payables                  4526    5500    3000    3300    2500    2000    1500    1570    1601    1737
Personnel                        572     606     600     700     700     700     700     700     700     700
Taxes and sundry creditors      1341    1477    1500    1600    1800    2000    2500    4000    3500    3000
Other current liabilities        385     549
Bank loan to pilots                                      775     625     475     325     175
Total current liabilities     6824    8132    5100    6375    5625    5175    5025    6445    5801     5437
Medium and long term debt       8326    9458   14735   19260   23638   27958   31638   36781   41410   45759
Govemment grants                 356     524     424     400     300     200     100
Share capital                  22577   22577   22577   22577   22577   22577   22577   22577   22577   22577
Unpaid capital                           980     980
Reserves                        1321    1321    1321    1620    1620    1620    1620    1620    1620    1620
Retained eamings               -3359   -3321   -3882   -3186   -2202    -410    1285    3470    6866   10610
Total shareholders'equity     20539   21557   20996   21011   21995   23787   25482   27667   31063   34808
Total liabilities and equity  36045   39670   41255   47046   51558   57120   62244   70892   78274   86004
Note: For the years 1999 to 2001, excluding the three pilot distribution companies.
From 2002 onwards, including the pilot companies.
- 60 -



KESH - SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
(million lek)
I  2001    2002   2003    2004   2005    2006    2007   2008
E Estimate                    Projected
SOURCES
Net income after interest and taxes  -561  696   984    1792    1694   2185    3396   3745
Depreciation                     2500    3090   3500    3970   4400    5216    6032   6848
Provision for bad debt           2000    1684   1625    1226    692     736     597    433
Net internal generation         3939    5470   6109    6988   6786    8137   10025  11025
New IDA sub-loan disbursement                   1440    1570    930     245
Other foreign loans and grants   4728    4800   3400    3400   3400    6000    6000   6000
Decrease in investments                   826
Bank loan to pilots                       775
Total sources                    8667   11872  10949   11958   11116  14382   16025  17025
APPLICATIONS
IDA new project investments                     1680    1835    1085    285
Other ongoing/planned investments  5228  8770   6320    6165    6915  14715   15000  15000
Repayment of existing IDA sub-loans       275    275     275     275    275     275    275
Repayment of new IDA sub-loan                                                          280
Repayment of other loans                         188     375     375    827    1096   1096
Repayment of loan to pilots                       150    150     150    150     175
Payback of Govt. loan              100     24     100    100     100    100
Decrease in capital                       680
Changes in working capital       3763    2341    1839    805    -669   -384    1407   1152
Changes in cash balances          -424   -219    398    2253    2885  -1587   -1928    -777
Total applications               8667   11872  10949   11958   11116  14382   16025  17025
CASH POSITION
Opening balance                   803     379     160    558    2811   5697    4110   2182
Annual change (surplus/deficit)  -424    -219     398   2253    2885   -1587  -1928    -777
Ending balance                    379     160    558    2811    5697   4110    2182   1405
Note: For the years 1999 to 2001, excluding the three pilot distribution companies.
From 2002 onwards, including the pilot companies.
- 61 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ALBANIA: Power Sector Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project
Procurement
1.    Responsibility. The project implementation would require procurement of goods and
selection of consulting firms to carry out consulting services.  The PMU responsible for
implementation of the Power Transmission and Distribution Project would continue for the
proposed project. The procurement capacity assessment has identified the need for enhancing the
capacity of the PMU in dealing with procurement matters, including recruiting a Procurement
Specialist to replace the one that has just left, attending the procurement workshop in ILO, Turin
after the signing of the Credit Agreement; acquiring a larger space with filing cabinets for
archiving procurement documents; and establishing a procurement monitoring database which
could be submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis as a procurement status report. International
consultants would work with the PMU to prepare bidding documents and monitor installation of
the equipment.
Procurement methods (Table A)
2.    Methods for Bank-Financed Procurement. Bank-financed goods and technical services
would be procured in accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995, revised January 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents would be used for Bank-financed
procurement. The selection of Consultants to be financed by the Bank would be carried out in
accordance with the "Guidelines on Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999.
The project procurement plan is given in Table A. A General Procurement Notice would be
published in the Development Business of the United Nations in June 2002.
3.    Methods for Non-Bank Financed Procurement. Project procurement not financed by
the Bank would be carried out in accordance with Albanian procurement rules and regulations.
4.    Project Goods. The project would finance rehabilitation and strengthening of the power
transmission and distribution systems in the regions of Durres, Elbasan and Kucova (US$ 21.03
million). It would also finance procurement and installation of individual and collective boxes for
household meters (US$ 10.18 million).
5.    Project Technical and Consultant Services.  The project would finance technical
assistance (US$ 3.85 million) for:
power sector reform;
assistance in procurement-related activities for the project components and in monitoring
of the installation of these components;
assistance to KESH in the establishment of an environmental cell capable of conducting
environmental assessments, preparing resettlement action plans and monitoring
- 62 -



environmental-related activities and indicators;
revaluation of KESH's assets;
review of inventory control procedures; and
consumer satisfaction surveys.
Procurement-related training would also be included.
6.    Procedures for Bank-Financed    Goods and    Supply  and  Install Contracts.
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be used for goods and for supply and install
contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more. ICB procedures would cover
100% of Bank-financed goods and supply and install contracts.
7.    Supply and Install Arrangements. The transmission and distribution component would
be best realized through supply and install arrangements, which would be applied using the Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents for the Supply and Installation of Plant and Equipment. This
approach would be appropriate because installation separate from equipment supply is generally a
lengthier process and could delay project implementation.
Procurement Review
8.    Prior Review. Procuremnent documents for Bank-financed components would be subject
to the Bank's review. The prior review would cover 100% of Bank-financed procurement value.
9.    Procurement Audit. In addition to prior reviews, the Bank may carry out an audit of the
procurement it finances. Whereas the prior reviews are regular tasks under the project, a
procurement audit would be a spot check of the quality and consistency of Bank-financed
procurement work.
10.   Procurement Plan. Tlhe project procurement plan is given in the following Table. It
does not include US$ 4.59 million to be incurred by KESH (US$ 0.61 million for customs duties,
land acquisition, land levelling., etc. for the transmission and distribution component, and US$
3.98 million for customs duties and installation of the meter boxes by KESH). In addition, KESH
will be providing an estimated US$ 0.57 for the local taxes component of the technical assistance.
- 63 -



ALBANIA
POWER SECTOR REHABILITATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Project Procurement Plan
Main Procurement Activity
Estimated           Procure- Submission Award of
Component                     Cost   Financier    ment     of Bids  Contract Completon
US$ M              Method    o   is    Cnrc
TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION COMPONENT
Durres, Elbasan & Kucova: Development of 20 kV
distribution networks, construction of new 110/20 kV
substations, and construction of transmission
interconnections                                 20.42    IDA       ICB        Feb-03  Apr-03     Sep-05
METER BOXES COMPONENT
Individual & Collective Meter Boxes and Accessories  6.20  IDA      ICB        Sep-02  Nov-02     Jun-03
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE & TRAINING COMPONENTS
Power Sector Reform                               1.00   IDA*      QCBS        Jan-03  Mar-03     Mar-05
Assistance in Procurement and Monitoring of Installation  1 50  IDA'  QCBS     Sep-02  Nov-02     Sep-05
Assistance in Establishment of Environmental Cell  0.15   IDA'     QCBS        Jan-03   Mar-03    Mar-04
Revaluation of KESH's Assets                      1.00    IDA'     QCBS        Feb-03   Apr-03    Apr-04
Review of Inventory Control Procedures            0.10    IDA'     QCBS        Feb-03   Apr-03     Jul-03
Consumer Satisfaction Surveys                     0.05    IDA'     QCBS        Mar-03  May-03     Aug-05
Training                                          0.05    IDA
The estimated cost includes 15% for local income taxes to be financed by KESH.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
:-   .    '    !.Procurement Method  -     .
- Expenditure Category         -                   - dNCB 2       '    ther :        N.B.F: . Total Cost-
1. Works                                0.00              0.00            0.00           4.59         4.59
(0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                                26.62             0.00            0.00           0.00        26.62
(26.62)           (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)       (26.62)
3. Services                             0.00              0.00            3.85           0.00         3.85
(0.00)            (0.00)          (3.28)        (0.00)        (3.28)
4. Miscellaneous                        0.00              0.00            0.00           0.00         0.00
(0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                                26.62             0.00            3.85           4.59        35.06
(26.62)           (0.00)          (3.28)         (0.00)       (29.90)
IFigures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes technical assistance and training.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
11.     Table B is not required as all IDA-financed components would be subject to prior review.
- 64 -



Procurement Capacity Assessment
12.   The procurement capacity assessment has shown that, while there are several weaknesses
in the public procurement systern, these weaknesses are not applicable to the KESH PMU, which
handles only donor-financed procurement according to the procurement guidelines of the
respective donors. Nevertheless, given the overall procurement climate in the country, the overall
risk has been assessed as high. T his is proposed to be mitigated by such measures as prior review
of all contracts, using ICB for both the Bank-financed goods and supply & install contracts, and
QCBS for all Bank-financed consultancy contracts.
13.   In order to strengthen the capacity of the PMU, the following actions are recommended:
-     recruit consultant undeir the QCBS method to assist in handling of procurement
immediately after signing of the Credit Agreement;
-     recruit a procurement specialist before signing of the Credit Agreement;
-     send one or two PMU staff to ILO, Turin for a detailed procurement training immediately
after signing of the Credit Agreement, and for other procurement-related training during
project implementation;
-     establish a computerized procurement monitoring system by project effectiveness to
enable the PMU to keep track of procurement activities as well as to generate quarterly
progress reports for the Eank;
-     develop a simple interim financial management system before Board presentation (the
EDF/KPMG Financial Management System is not expected to be completed before the
signing of the Credit Agreement), and
-     conduct a procurement launch workshop shortly after the effectiveness of the Credit.
Training and Information on Procurement
Estimated date of Project Launch Workshop:                 October 2002
Estimated date of publication of General Procurement Notice:  May 2002
Is procurement subject to mandatory SPN in Development Business:  Yes, for ICB contracts
exceeding$ 1 0 million
andfor QCBS contracts
exceeding $ 200, 000
Domestic Preference for Goods:                             No
Domestic Preference for Works:                             N/A
Retroactive Financing:                                     No
Advance Procurement:                                       No
Procurement Monitoring System:                             A procurement database
will be established within
the PMU to keep
up-to-date procurement
data andform the basis
for procurement
monitoring and periodic
progress reports
- 65 -



Procurement Arrangements under Co-financing:                N/A
Procurement Staffing
Procurement Staff responsible for procurement in the Project:  Iftikhar Khalil, PTL &
PAS.
Expected Role of the Field Office in Procurement:           Limited liaison role.
- 66 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
14.   The Credit proceeds would be disbursed over the three-year period October 1, 2002 -
September 30, 2005. The Project Completion Date would be September 30, 2005, and the Credit
Closing Date would be March 31, 2006, when full disbursement of the Credit is anticipated.
KESH would maintain all required supporting documentation for at least one year beyond the
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account has taken place and make it. available
for review by Bank staff and independent auditors upon request.
15.   Disbursements from the IDA Credit would be made on the traditional system with
reimbursements against direct payments for large amounts and payments from a Special Account
for smaller amounts.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Categor-- .' ,mount in USSmillion        Financing Percentage
(1) Goods (including associated        26.62         100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
services)                                           local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
85% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally.
(2) Consultants' Services (including    3.28          85% of Consultant Services, 100% of
training)                                                        training
0.00
Total Project Costs                    29.90
Total                                  29.90
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
16.   As all procurement packages are subject to prior review, disbursements would be made
against full documentation except that, for expenditures for consultant's services and training
under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each, withdrawals from the Credit Account
would be made on the basis of st-atements of expenditure.
Special account:
17.   To facilitate timely Project implementation, the Borrower would establish, maintain and
operate, under conditions accepitable to the Bank, a Special Account (SA) in US dollars. The
authorized allocation of the Special Account would be US$ 500,000. Upon effectiveness, the
borrower may withdraw an amotut of US$ 250,000. When the funds withdrawn from the Credit
Account and any outstanding Special Commitments amount to SDR 1,000,000, the borrower may
withdraw the remaining amounit of US$ 250,000 by submitting the relevant Application for
Withdrawal. Replenishment applications should be submitted at least every three months, and
must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
- 67 -



Financial Management Arrangements for the Project
Financial Management
18.    A financial management assessment was carried out from April 22 to 26 to determine
whether the financial management arrangements established by the PMU are acceptable to the
Bank.
19.    These arrangements are considered capable of satisfactorily recording all transactions and
supporting the preparation of regular and reliable Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) to the
Bank. The system therefore satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. As
a standard requirement for Bank-financed operation, the PMU and KESH financial management
systems will also be subject to external auditing by auditors acceptable to the Bank.
20.    The conclusions of the financial management assessment are the following:
Financial Management        Rahng                           Comments
Assessment
1. Implementing Entity      Satisfactory  PMU has already some financial management experience
2. Funds Flow               Satisfactory   Flow of funds would be relatively simple since there is
only two sources of funds (IDA and KESH)
3. Staffing                 Satisfactory  Staffing is adequate. The project has an accountant and a
disbursement specialist
4. Accounting Policies and  Satisfactory  Project financial management procedures and policies have
Procedures                                 been improved with the assistance of a consultant and an
Accounting Manual has been prepared
5. Internal Audit              N/A         There is no internal audit for the project
6. External Audit           Satisfactory   Auditors for the Project and KESH would be appointed by
___ __ _ .KESH
7. Reporting and Monitoring  Satisfactory  Format of FMRs has been agreed with the Bank an
__ __ __ __ __ __ __ __   _ _ ____  finalized  by the PMU
8. Information Systems      Satisfactory   The PMU    has established an integrated accountin
software
9. Disbursement             Satisfactory   Disbursement assessment has been satisfactory.
Disbursement would follow the transaction-based method
10. Risk Management         Satisfactory   Overall Control Risk is Moderate
Overall Financial
Management Rating            Satisfactory                      ____
21.    Country Financial Management Issues. A         draft Country Financial Accountability
Assessment was prepared in April 2002 and the following issues that could affect the project
financial accountability were been identified:
Public Financial Accountability
-      Weak capacity in several institutions.
-      Weak internal controls including inadequate cash management and weak internal
- 68 -



audit function.
-     Absence of a solid legal basis for internal audit in the public sector.
Private Sector Accounting and Auditing
-     Weak audit capacity and lack of experience in implementing International
Standards on Auditing.
22.   Since the review of the audit reports indicates inadequate understanding of Bank financial
management policies and procedures on the part of the auditors, the Bank would conduct a
formal review of the capacity of the audit firms that audit Bank-financed operations in Albania.
The fiduciary risks in Bank-financed projects in Albania are contained by requiring the
establishment of separate implementing entities with separate financial management systems.
23.   Implementing Entity and Staffing. All financial management arrangements for the
project will be handled autonomously by the PMU and there will be no interference by the
Economic and Finance Depaitment of KESH on matters related to the project. This is an
important improvement in the design of the PMU financial management arrangements. During
the implementation of the Power Transmission and Distribution project, the PMU accountant had
to report to KESH, and the PMU's accounting arrangements were treated as part of the
company's accounting system.
24.   PMU administrative staffing for this project has increased with the hiring of an accountant
that, along with the disbursements specialist, will handle all the financial management matters of
the project. Staffing will now allow proper segregation of duties within the PMU and can be
considered adequate for the size of the project.
25.   Although the newly hired accountant has no previous experience in Bank operations, the
disbursements specialist has been working on the Power Transmission and Distribution project
with overall financial managerment responsibility and is familiar with the Bank's requirements.
Both staff received assistance and training from the consultant while the project information
system was being established. ]However, further training will still be needed, and will be provided
by the same consultant.
26.   Accounting Arrangements. The accounting arrangements for the project are in place
and are based on an integrated accounting software that has been installed and customized with
the assistance of an accountin,g consultant. The system satisfies the Bank minimurn financial
management requirements.
27.   The Chart of Accounts has been customized according to the project components and to
the categories of expenditures described in the Project Appraisal Document and the Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs) have been customized to the format agreed with the Bank. The
method of accounting that will be adopted by the project is on a cash basis. The project's
financial management policies and procedures (accounting, internal controls, budgeting, reporting
and auditing) have been described in an Accounting Manual. Considering that the internal
controls of KESH are quite weak, during the implementation of the project, the PMU will, with
- 69 -



the assistance of consultants hired under the project, monitor whether goods purchased for the
project and delivered to KESH are used for the purposes intended.
28.   Information System. The PMU has adopted a newly developed software. The package
has been developed by a local software house with the supervision of the accounting consultant.
The package has been tested, but since this is the first project to adopt the software, some
fine-tuning will be necessary during project implementation.
29.   The testing done so far proved that the design of the package is quite good. The software
operates in a network environment, and data can be entered by different functional operators
(accounting, disbursements, procurement, etc), and approvals can be given by the project director
on line allowing an adequate segregation of duties during posting of the transactions. The system
has been customized to produce the FMRs, and will not have any links with KESH's accounting
system. Training of staff in the use of the system will be given further by the consultant.
30.   Reporting and Monitoring. The system is able to produce the following FMRs:
Financial Reports
-     Sources and Uses of Funds Statement
-     Uses of Funds by Project Activity Statement
-     Uses of Funds by Sources of Funds Statement
-     Special Account Statement
Progress Reports
-     Project Progress Report
Procurement reports
-     Procurement Report (Goods)
-     Procurement Report (Consultants)
31.   These reports would be prepared on a quarterly basis and submitted to the Bank within 30
days of the end of the quarter. The reports to the Ministry of Finance are based on relatively
simple formats and the project accountant will prepare them manually.
32.   Disbursements Arrangements and Flow of Funds. Considering that the PMU has been
implementing another Bank-financed project, the PMU disbursements capacity has been assessed
by a Bank disbursements assistant. Documents related to the disbursements of the Power
Transmission and Distribution project have been reviewed and found to be satisfactory. The
disbursements specialist is familiar with the Bank's requirements and has the skills to handle the
new project.
33.   The Credit would be disbursed over a three year period (Oct. 1, 2002 - Sep.30, 2005) and
closing date would be 31 Mar. 2006. Disbursement will follow the traditional transaction-based
- 70 -



method (i.e. reimbursement with full documentation, SOEs for small amounts, and direct
payments for large amounts).
34.   The allocation of the Credit proceeds would be according to Table C above. The
Standard Disbursement Percentage of 85% adopted in Albania has been applied to the
expenditure category for technical assistance and training.
35.   As for all Bank-financed projects in Albania, the Special Account would be opened by the
PMU in the Central Bank. Execution of payments will be made through a Project Account opened
by the PMU in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA to which funds from the Special Account
will be transferred.
36.   KESH counterpart funds would be disbursed directly. By December 31, 2002, KESH
would open a separate account for the financing of payments to be made by KESH for its
contribution towards the cost of the project, and, every three months, ensure that there are
sufficient funds in the account to cover the expected expenditure over the succeeding six months.
37.   An amount of Lek 700,000 will be provided by KESH to the PMU as an advance to cover
incidental office expenses, with the advance being replenished on a quarterly basis against details
of expenditure submitted by the PMU. These funds will be deposited into a Revolving Account
opened in a commercial bank by the PMU.
38.   Audits. An independent auditor acceptable to the Bank would be selected and appointed
by KESH. The auditor would carry out full audits for (i) KESH and (ii) the project. The cost of
the audit will be covered by KESH. The audit TORs will be cleared by the Bank. The auditor will
issue separate audit reports and management letters for KESH and for the project and these
reports should be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year. The
auditors for FY02 would be appointed by November 30, 2002 and by each succeeding November
for the following year's audit.
- 71 -



39.   Risk Analysis. The following table summarizes the risk analysis.
Risk                        Comments
Assessment
Inherent Risk
l1Country Financial        S       A draft CFAA has identified several issues in public financial
Management Risk                    accountability and private sector accounting .
Recommendation: in order to contain the fiduciary risk the "ring
fencing" arrangements in Bank-financed operations should be
maintained .
2. Project Financial       M       The PMU has established satisfactory financial management
Management Risk                    arrangements. Considering that, prior to this project, the PMU
has also implemented another Bank-financed operation, the risk
related to the financial management arrangements for the project
is moderate.
3. Fiduciary Risk          H       The fiduciary risk would be contained by "ring fencing" the
project together with effective procurement monitoring.
Overall Inherent Risk      S
Control Risk
1. Implementing Entity    M        The arrangements are satisfactory.
2. Funds Flow              M       The funds flow is quite simple.
3. Staffing                M       Staffing is adequate but further training is needed.
4. Accounting Policies and  M       Policies and procedures have been established.
Procedures
5. Internal Audit                  There is no internal audit.
6. External Audit          M       The external audit would be carried out by an acceptable auditor.
7. Reporting and          M        The reporting format has been agreed.
Monitoring
8. Information Systems    M        They are in place.
Overall Control Risk      M
H - High    S - Substantial    M - Moderate       N - Negligible or Low
- 72 -



40.   KESH Financial Management Arrangements. Although KESH has been assisted for
over three years in the implementation of an information system by a team of consultants from
EDF-KPMG, the computerized system has not yet been completely established, and the
company's accounting is still handled manually.
41.   The hardware (around 125 computers) and software have been installed in the company's
headquarters and in its entities, but after significant delays. KESH accepted the software only in
March 2001. The delays were due to some problems with the design of the program, the limited
accounting capacity in KESH, and the selection of an accounting consultant that was different
from the software developer, which caused some coordination problems.
42.   The package (IFA-Integiated Financial Application) is a modular application, with Oracle
database, that has been sub-contracted by an Albanian software house (INTEK) to Slovenian and
Macedonian software houses. The software is complete and has six modules (i) accounts payable,
(ii) cash book, (iii) general ledger, (iv) fixed assets register, (v) inventory book and (vi) payroll.
The package will eventually also include a cost accounting system based on cost centers. In view
of the complexity of the new system, KESH established an IT team.
43.   There have also been delays in putting data into the new system, largely as a result of
insufficient involvement by KESH management. After several attempts to implement the system
in 16 of KESH's 53 entities (based on the old organization), several entities succeeded in
completing the input of the accounting data in some of the six modules of the system. However,
until all the accounting data have been put into the six modules, KESH will not be able to use the
system fully.
44.   In order to improve these financial management arrangements, KESH should prepare a
time-bound action plan to complete the establishment of the system by March 31, 2003.
45.   Proposed Action Plan.    It is concluded that the project financial management
arrangements satisfy the Bank's minimum requirements. There are, however, a few actions that
need to be taken to strengthen these arrangements.
Actions                               Deadlines
1. Submit a time-bound action plan for the       June 30, 2002
implementation of KESH accounting system
2. Appoint the auditor for the FY02 audit of KESH  November 30, 3002
and the project
3. Implement fully the computerized financial    March 31, 2003
management system in all units
46.   Supervision Plan. Finanrcial management supervision will be carried out at least once a
year by the project financial management specialist. The financial management specialist will also:
- 73 -



-     review the implementation of KESH's accounting system;
-     review the FMRs as soon as these are submitted to the Bank (on a quarterly basis);
and
-     review the audit reports and management letters for KESH and the project and
follow up issues during project supervision.
The first audit report is due by June 2003.
- 74 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ALBANIA: Power Sector Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project
Project ShedUle.      :.                       - .Planned                -    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      7.5
First Bank mission (identification)             12/01/2001                   12/01/2001
Appraisal mission departure                     02/24/2002                  02/24/2002
Negotiations                                    04/15/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   09/30/2002
Prepared by:
KESH
Preparation assistance:
Consultancy assistance to prepare the feasibility study for the transmission and distribution component
provided by Harza Engineering Company Intemational L. P., with financing by USTDA.
Consultancy assistance to help prepare the Power Sector Policy Statement provided by Pierce Atwood and
CORE International, with financing by USAID.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Iffikhar Khalil                   Program Team Leader/ Engineer/ Procurement Accredited Staff
Richard Hamilton                  Consultant Energy Economist
Kishore Nadkami                   Financial Analyst
Sandra Zanus Michiei              Financial Management Specialist
Bernard Baratz                    Environmental Specialist
Angelica Fernandes                Procurement Analyst
Yolanda Gedse                     Team Assistant
Greta Minxhozi                    Operations Officer
Ahmed Jehani                      Lead Counsel
Junko Funahashi                   Senior Counsel
Rohit Mehta                       Senior Disbursement Officer
Charles Chandler                  Consultant
Kathleen Kuehnast                 Consultant Social Scientist
John Kendall                      Consultant - Peer Reviewer
- 75 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ALBANIA: Power Sector Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
Harza Engineering Company International L. P., Albania Short Term Power Sector Rehabilitation Projects,
March 2002.
Albania Power Sector Reform Task Force, Strategic Action Plan, February 28, 2001.
KESH, Enel, Second Power Sector Action Plan, 2002-2003, January 2002.
Power Sector Policy Statement, approved in April 2002.
*Including electronic files
- 76 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ALBANIA: Power' Sector Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project
02-May-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In US$ Millions                            disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA        SF       GEF    Cancel.    Undisb       Orig  Frm Rev'd
P069479       2002 FISHERY DEVT                                     0.00      5 60      0.00       0.00      0.00      5.51      0 00       0 00
P070078       2001 TRADE & TRANS FACIL IN SE EUR                    0.00      810       0.00      0 00       0 00      6 70       2 60      0 00
P055383       2001 SOC SERV DEVT                                    0 00     10 00      0.00       0 00      0 00      9 55     -0 25       0.00
P054736       2001 AG SERVICES                                      0 00      9.90      0.00       0 00      0 00      9.26      009        0 00
P066491       2000 WS URG REHAB                                     0 00     10.00      0.00       0 00      0.00      7.38       4 22      000
P057182       2000 LEG/JUD REF                                      0.00      9 00      0.00       0.00      0 00      7 60       3 76      0 00
P068853       2000 EMG ROAD REPAIR                                  0.00     13.65      000        000       000       6.65       513       345
P069079       2000 FINSECIBTA                                       0.00      6.50      000        000       000       4.17       148       000
P069120       2000 EDUCREF                                          0.00     1200       000        0.00      000      10.32      -0.11      000
P069939       2000 PUB ADM REF                                      0.00      8.50      0 00       0 00      0 00      7.46      240        000
P051309       1999 COMMUNITY WORKS                                  000       9.00      000        000       000       0.41      -527       000
P051310       1999 MICROCREDIT                                      0 00     12.00      0 00       0.00      0.00      5.00      -0 74      000
P043178       1999 IRRIG & DRAIN II                                 0 00     24.00      0.00       0 00      0 00      8 64     -1 28       0 00
P045312       1998 HEALTH RECOVERY                                  000      1700       0.00       0.00      0.00     1200       1315       000
P051602       1998 PRIV IND REC                                     0 00     10.25      0.00       0.00      0.00      5 32       5 86      0 00
P054384       1998 RCVRY PROG TA                                    0.00      5 00      0.00       0 00      0 00      0 46       0 48      0 54
P040975       1998 LANDDEVT                                         0.00     1000       000       000        000       6.51      582        000
P040818       1998 DURRESPORT                                       0.00     16.99      0.00       000       000       838        809       070
P008271       1996 FORESTRY                                         0.00      8.00       0.00      000       000       1 95       267      -0 11
P034491       1996 POWERTRNSM&DIST                                  0.00     2950       000        0.00      4.49     1130       19.96      000
P036060       1996 NATL ROADS                                       0 00     25 00      0 00       0.00      0.00      0 69       2.33      0 00
Total:       0 00     259.99       0.00    0 00       4.49      135.26     70.38      4 59
- 77 -



ALBANIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                      Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998               AAP                           0.00    28.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.15     0.00    0.00
2000               NCBank                         0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00     0.00    0.00
1999               SEF Eurotech                  0.90     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.90    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999               SEF FEFAD Bank                0.00     0.98    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.98     0.00    0.00
2001                Seament                      15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        15.90   31.48    0.00     0.00    0.90    12.13    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity    Quasi     Partic
1998               Patos Marinza                   30.00      0.00     0.00     50.00
2001               Patos Marinza In                10.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       40.00      0.00      0.00     50.00
- 78 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ALBANIA: Power Sector Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project
EuroPe &    Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central   middle-
Albania       Asia  income       Development diamond'
2001
Population, mid-vear (millions)                         3.4      475      2.046                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method. US$)                    1,230     2.010     1,140
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        4.2      956      2,327
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (X)                                          0 9       0.1       1.0     GN
Labor force (%)                                         1.3       0.6       1.3     GNI                              Gross
per          n          -      primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 11195-01)                              capita            e, enrollment
Povertv (% of population below national povertv line)
Urban Population (% of total population)                40        67        42
Life expeclancv at birth (years)                        74        69        69
Infant mortalitv (per 1,000 live births)                20        21        32
Child malnutrition (56 of children under 5)              8                  11           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (I% of population)             90        80
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation aqe 15+)                     15         3        15
Gross primary enrollment ( of school-age popilation)   110       100       114               Albania
Male                                                 109       101       116               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               110        99       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TIRENDS
1981     1991      2000      2001
Economic rattos*
G DP (US$ billions)                            ..      1.1        3.8       4.1
Gross domestic InvestmenUGDP                 35.1      7.3       18.6      19.4
Exports of qoods and services/GDP            23.0      7.2       18.9      20.4                     Trade
Gross domestic savinas/GDP                   36.6    -13.0       -2.9      -3.7
Gross national savings/GDP                            -14.2      11.6      13.1
Current account balance/GDP                           -21.6      -7 2      -6.3     Domestic                     Ie
Interest payments/GDP                                  02         0.2       0.3     savings                     Investment
Total debUGDP                                         44.9       20.9      23.0
Total debt service/exports                             3.9        2.1       2.7
Present value of debt/GDP                                        12 9
Present value of debt/exports                                    38 5
Indebtedness
1981-91  1991-01     2000      2001    2001-05
(average annual ronwth)
GDP                                 -0.5      5.4      7.8        6.5       6.7         -     Albania
GDP Der capita                      -2 4      4.6      6.9        5.6       6.3               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services                11.7      5.8       24.8       5.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                          20
Aariculture                                  32.4     39.3       51.0      49.1
Industry                                     43 0     42.7      26 3       27.3      iX
Manufacturing                                        36.5      11.6      11.6       T -O
Services                                     24.6     18.0       22.7      236   o                     98   99    00   01
Private consumption                          54.9     90.9      92.0       90.9 g    o
General government consumption                8.5     22 1       10.9      12.9 9G1
Imports of goods and services                21.5     27.6      40.4       43.5
1981-91  1991-01      2000      2001      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   1.0      6.1        4.0       1.4     so
Industrv                                     -0.5      5.0       11.4      10.7     40
Manufacturina                                        -0.8       5.0       6.5     20
Services                                     - 3.0     5.1      13.3       13.6     o
Private consumption                                    54         2.8       6.7    -20            i 9 6 S8  99   iS    01
General qovernment consumption                         3.1       7.4       12.0    40
Gross domestic investment                    -1.0     20.1       17.9      11.1            -Exports       +   Imports
Imports of goods and services                         11.0       6.5       23.5
Note 2001 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators In the countrV (in bold) compared with Its Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomDlete.
- 79 -



Albania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991      2000     2001     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                 4
(% chanqe)
Consumer prices                                     49.4       0.1      3.1     30
Implicit GDP deflator                      -2.2     34.5      -1.2      2.8     20
Government finance                                                              I0
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                              0
Current revenue                                     34.3      22.4     23 0     -10    9s    97    98    99   00    01
Current budget balance                             -21.7      -2.4     -1.2                 GDP deflator  e CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                            -27.8      -9.1     -8.5
TRADE
1981     1991      2000     2001     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                         419      101       256      305     1,00
Commodity 1                                                   28              1.250
Commodity 2                                                   14              1000
Manufactures                                                 218
Total imports (cif)                         384      409     1,070    1,332      7S0
Food                                                         217               s00
Fuel and energy                                               71               250
Capital goods                                                230                 o   
95   96   97   go   99  00   01
Export price index (1995=100)
Import price index (1995=100)                                                              * Exports    * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1981     1991      2000     2001     Current account balance to GDP I%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services               431       82       705      840      0
Imports of goods and services               403      314     1,520    1,791
Resource balance                             28     -232      -815     -951
Net income                                   11      -22       106      148
Net current transfers                                  8       439      543
Current account balance                      45     -246      -270     -260     10
Financing items (net)                       -19       24       381      391
Changes in net reserves                     -26      221      -111     -131     15-
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)       ..       ..       638      767
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)             *-     14.4     143.7    143.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(US$ millions)                                                                  Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                 512       784      945
IBRD                                                0         0         0                    G: 37
IDA                                                 0        346                        F: 37
Total debt service                                     4        27       41
IBRD                                                0         0         0
IDA                                                 0         2         3                                   B: 346
E,218
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                   320        161
Official creditors                                 20        93         ,.
Private creditors                                  28         -1
Foreign direct investment                           0        143                        D: 58
Portfolio equitV                                     0        0                                  88es
World Bank program
Commitments                                         0        54        20     A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                       0        64        34     B - IDA  D - Other multilateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                                0         0         0     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Netfibs s                                           0        64        34
Interest payments                                   0         2         3
Net transfers                                       0        62        31
Development Economics                                                                                           5114/02
- 80 -



Additional Aknnex 11: Procedures for Land Acquisition
ALBANIA: Power S,ector Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project
All procedures for expropriation are based on:
Law No 8561 dated 22.12.1999
"On Expropriation and Temporary Utilization of Private Property for the Public Interest";
Government Decree No 126 dated 23.3.2000
"Composition and Procedures of the Special Committees for Expropriation";
Government Decree No 127 daled 23.3 2000
"On the Content and Procedures for the Submission of the Requests and Notifications for
Expropriation and Temporary Utilization of Private Property for the Public Interest"
Government Decree No 138 dated 23.3.2000
"On Technical Criteria for Evaluation and Calculation of Compensation for Expropriated Private
Property, Devalued Properties and Third Party Rights".
Government Decree No 147 daled 31.3.2000
"On Functioning Rules and Modalities for Special Committees for Expropriations"
Summary of Land Expropriation Procedures
When the realization or protection of public interests cannot be achieved without exercising the
rights of ownership over movable or immovable properties that are privately owned, the Council
of Ministers, on the application of the requesting subject in favor of whom the expropriation is to
be done, on the proposal of ihe minister who is competent under this law, decides on the
expropriation of these properties.
When the expropriation is done on the application of a private juridical subject, the competent
minister, in the capacity of legal representative of state property, is authorized by this law, on the
preliminary application of this subject, to make the transfer of ownership of the properties
expropriated by the state in favor of the private subject who has applied for expropriation, on the
condition that the realization of the building or investment for a public interest for which
expropriation was performed has been verified according to law.
When the private applicant does not seek the transfer of property in his favor, the property
remains in favor of the State.
Based on the Law and Government Decrees listed above, the interested person (juridical person)
submits the request to the line ministry (or ministry responsible for the sector), with, as
attachments, documents which are listed in Article 10 of the above law.
- 81 -



A Special Committee for expropriation is established in the responsible line ministry;
When the ministry, through the Special Committee, is convinced that the documents are
prepared based on the law and government decrees, it decides to accept the request for the
expropriation and notifies the person that has made the request.
Within 10 days from such a notification it is foreseen to enter into agreement between the
Ministry and the person which has made the request.
Within 10 days from the date of the signing of the agreement, the ministry starts the
procedures with respect to the owners of the properties affected. In the meantime a public
notification is published in official newspapers and reputable national and local
newspapers. These notifications are published during one week.
-     One month after the latest date of publication, the ministry submits the proposal for the
expropriation to the Government, to take the final decision.
The subject in favor of whom the expropriation is done submits the application for expropriation
to the ministry that is competent pursuant to law. The application shall be accompanied by the
following documentation:
(a)   Official documents that attest its status and registration as a juridical person;
(b)   Necessary designs, approved according to law, as well as the respective legal arguments
about the public interest connected with the realization of these projects.
(c)   Documentation related to the source and guarantee of the financial funds necessary for the
realization of the project, including those for expropriation or because of devaluation.
(d)   A preliminary valuation of the objects of expropriation and the amount of compensation
that is contemplated for each private owner.
(e)   Appropriate licenses and approvals from the competent organs according to the law, in
accordance with the nature and type of the project that is sought to be realized.
(f)   Official documents that attest to the manner of realizing the project by the applicant for
expropriation itself or with third parties, as well as the respective time periods.
(g)   A list of the owners of the private properties, for which expropriation is sought; a list of
the owners of private properties that are devalued because of the expropriation; and a list
of the third persons who should be compensated for their rights to the private properties
that are sought to be expropriated, together with explanations and data necessary for each
of them, with the respective estimates of the value of these properties and rights, as well
as the addresses and last known residences of the respective owners and third persons.
- 82 -



Detailed regulations related to the content and standards that are to be respected in the
compilation and presentation of the documentation that accompanies an application for
expropriation for the public inte:rest are set by decree of the Council of Ministers.
Procedures for Public Notification
The procedures for the notification of the affected people are as follows:
Ten days from the signing date of the agreement between the Ministry and the person which has
done the request, the Ministry starts the procedures concerning the owners of the properties
affected. In the meantime a public notice will be published in official newspapers and reputable
national and local newspapers. These notifications will be published during one week.
Procedures for Establishment of Land Value
The evaluation of the land value is established as an average of the selling price of ihe region
which is registered in the Immobile Properties Office Registration (IPOR). The period of this
evaluation must not exceed three months from the date of the official request. If there has been
no selling contract the Special Committee fixes a price based on the rules described in
Government Decree no 138, dated 23.3.2000, "On Technical Criteria for Evaluation and
Calculation of Compensation of Expropriated Private Property, Devalued Properties and Third
Party Rights."
Opportunities for Negotiation by Affected Persons
The price is established according to Government Decree no. 138, dated 3.23.2000, and there is
no possibility of negotiations between the owners and the interested person. Nevertheless, the
owners have the right to go to the court for the compensation. This does not result in suspending
the expropriation procedures.
Previous Land Acquisition
Some previous land acquisitions for KESH have been for:
I .   Sharra substation
2.    Elbasan 1 and Elbasan 2 substations (under the procedures)
3.    Elbasan 1 - Elbasan 2 line 220 kV (under procedures)
4.    Lushnja - Plastmas line
5.    Vau Dejes - Shkodra line 110 kV
6.    110 kV line Tirana centre - Tirana 220 kV substation
Compensation Policies
Please see the section on Procedures for Establishing Land Values.
- 83 -



Amount of Land to be Acquired
1.    Durres region
Overhead line from Porto Romano - Shkozet, 12 km, 23 towers. Under Albanian law
only the towers must be expropriated, 805 m2 for the whole line.
New substation in Porto Romano with an area of about 4,000 m2.
2.    Elbasan Region
Overhead line from Kombinati Drurit substation to the intersection point on the El-Fiber
line. Two towers with 100 m2 for the line.
New Kombinati I Drurit substation with an area of 4,000 m2.
3.    Kucova Region
Overhead line from Uznova - Berat intersection point to Berat substation. 37 towers,
1,400 m2.
New substation in Berat city with an area of 4,000 m2.
The average price of land varies from US$ 5 to 10 per square meter.
Monitoring of the Land Acquisition Process
During project implementation, the land acquisition process will be carefully documented. This
will be done using a table that is periodically updated, which lists owners, the sizes of the plots
affected, the amount of land expropriated (physical size and percent of the whole plot), amount of
compensation and records of any court suits and settlement amounts, if they differ from the initial
compensation. Households which lose more than 10% of their plots will be surveyed to assess the
impact of the loss on their household income. This aspect of the project will be supervised
carefully twice a year during the first two years, and annually thereafter.
- 84 -






1900'               19'30'     -        2000'               2O030'              21'00'
0  10  20  30  40  50  FED.      ,i    '.   RE P.        OF        Y U2 G   OSLAVIA
KILOMETERS
42'                       Os.Y0Podgorica          oValbona                                         42'30'-
A~~~~~- LJ Barr AS N                                           0nj  )   aRj,_
IHan i H loti
taq j Komo
kk  r te Dej-s Io
4130' ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~ PRO EC  _        us1ruKri\          u  q  z                             13'
Puke0?  Fu <\\:IAN sh Arrz  Kaiims   \
42'00                                     a420'
A L B A N   IA Zjak                                  Zi                 MA-Rec  r  D
POWER SECTOR                                O       ubeh
RE A   NDITTIN         Fush'e IC   L UIb 6       utrie         oj
RESTRUCTURING                              Krl
PR  OJECT:             \         5           \                  \     /FYR
PROJECT:M                                                                      C   DO     I
I 10 kV LINES
*    1 10/20 kV SUBSTATIONS      Kao      ~      K       Librazhd
j A ~~~~~KrroceO\w \o Sr
EXISTING TRANSMISSION LiNES:                             n South     'S f     '
-      400 kV                     ,s Peqinon
220 kVBe                                       rr  b
110 kV orS0 kV                    Lushn1 5\                         K        (       l
*   EXISTING SUBSTATIONS                                                                   La
Gramshae                          *   ~PepeI
O   SELECTED CITIES                 ,G                                                  ,
---.>-RIVERS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES I    00 Uanove                                    ? ali,q
/     Patos                   \4                   _      ilisht I
X  alls       h             \                        Korret >ll<h 
40'30'                                 S en                                                        40'30_
9\  1  tovrovC<\ T<                       ~       1Ct fKr-k' s
\ \ j  \ ~~~~~~~~~~+ _ ~~~~Ernnkh             5) /
AdriaticMema>=<Kyre 
A d r I a t I C                           Mem ia \, eAPbmc
Se a                                                                        GREECE
Gi, 5iroka    sc 
4000'                                                                                             40'00'-
        5+,0   /~~~~ii KakavijabN 1
a   Th. boundares, caotor, de-omch-ons ond ony other mi-rot-on
r  slh-rn ar this mop do aot impl on the part of The World Rank Ginop,  /  .  I
-ny jadmen ton the legal 05.0 af any territory or ony endobrn-en- t
r o.c.ceppne ofsuch oundaries-                          , 
i_             19,00'              1930'               2000'  1Igunence    20'30'              2100'



