Report No. 23502
Report No: i074905 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/06/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: ALBANIA         Project ID: P074905
Project: Power Sector Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project Task Team
Leader: Iftikhar Khalil
Authorized to Appraise Date: February 15, 2002 IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: May 28, 2002      IDA Amount ($m): 29.56
Managing Unit: ECSIE     Sector: PP - Electric Power & Other Energy Adjustment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The development objective of the project is to achieve significant
improvement in the operational effectiveness of the power sector through:
(a) implementation of electricity loss reduction measures; (b) enforcement
of billing, collection and disconnection policies; (c) introduction of
electricity price rationalization measures; (d) priority investments to
improve system supply and reliability; and (e) initiation of regulatory
strengthening and sector restructuring measures to improve sector
efficiency and establish the preconditions for competition and
privatization.
Background. At the beginning of Albania's economic transition in the
early 1990's, the country was virtually 100t electrified and was a net
electricity exporter. However, while the three hydropower plants of the
Drin River Cascade, which produced over 85? of total electricity supply,
were in reasonably good condition, the Fier thermal power plant and the
transmission and distribution systems were badly run down because of
previous neglect of maintenance, and there were frequent power outages due
to explosions in transformers, etc. Demand within Albania fell initially
to 79t of the 1989 level by 1992 because of declines in industrial
production.  Thereafter it rose by 10.4 9 per year to 6,160 GWh in 2000
mainly because of a sustained surge in consumption by households and small
commercial establishments, much of it illegal. The quality of
electricity supply was improved temporarily by emergency repairs financed
by donors, including IDA, but most of the required rehabilitation and
expansion of facilities has yet to be made.
By 1998, Albania had become a net electricity importer and, by the second
half of 2000, a serious electricity shortage had set in, partly as a
result of a fall in hydropower production caused by reduced river flows.
This shortage has involved frequent and prolonged load shedding (i.e.,
deliberate partial cut-off of electricity because of insufficient
supply). The demand estimate of 6,160 GWh in 2000 includes 450 GWh of
load shedding. In 2001, demand grew by only 2.3w to 6,301, but net
imports jumped by 75W to reach 1,750 GWh and load shedding increased to



900 GWh. The country has been unable to get all the imported electricity
it needs because of transmission constraints (which, however, are expected
to be eased soon as a result of donor investments) and financial
constraints.
KESH is unable to pay for more than a small proportion of the imports
needed out of its own resources because of financial difficulties caused
by widespread illegal use of electricity, poor collection of electricity
bills, and retail electricity prices which are below the cost of imported
electricity. Faced with these difficulties, the Government has been
providing a subsidy, but its large level (US$ 31.5 million equivalent in
2001) is diverting funds from other critical needs. Government budgetary
considerations require a gradual reduction in the subsidy for imports, and
load shedding is expected to continue for several years.
The electricity crisis is having a multiple adverse impact on the poor.
There is the direct impact in that frequent and prolonged load shedding
deprives them of light, space heating and cooking fuel, thereby adversely
affecting their quality of life and their health, as well as restricting
their access to education. Secondly, by diverting budgetary resources to
electricity imports, it diverts funds from the efforts to reduce poverty.
Thirdly, it adversely affects economic growth, which is recognized to be
the main instrument to reduce poverty in Albania.
The failure to adequately address the power sector's failings led to the
suspension in 1997 of donor support for the Drin River Cascade
Rehabilitation Project (cofinanced by EBRD, Austria, Italy and
Switzerland) and the suspension in 1998 of IDA and other donor
disbursements for the Power Transmission and Distribution Project
(cofinanced by IDA through Credit No. 2826-ALB, EBRD, Italy, Japan and
Switzerland). These were the two main donor-financed operations in the
power sector in Albania at the time apart from Italian support for
distribution system rehabilitation in Tirana. Donor activities related to
the Drin River Cascade Rehabilitation Project were restarted in 2000
following the establishment of a contract with Enel (Italy) to provide
management assistance to KESH.
Activities related to the Power Transmission and Distribution Project were
restarted in 2001 following the successful initial implementation by the
Government and KESH of a two-year Action Plan to tackle the critical
issues of the sector. Part of the remaining amount of the IDA credit was
reallocated to provide financing for household meters and an Energy Sector
Study. The study includes preparation of: (i) electricity demand
projections to 2015, (ii) a least-cost power generation investment program
covering the same period, (iii) a power transmission master plan, (iv) a
plan for reduction in technical and non-technical power losses in
transmission and distribution, (v) a power dispatch plan, (vi) a power
distribution master plan, (vii) an evaluation of the potential for
district heating, (viii) an evaluation of the technical and economic
feasibility of imported natural gas, (ix) a petroleum strategy, (x) an
overall investment plan and financing options, (xi) electricity tariff
reform based on long run marginal cost estimates, and (xii)
recommendations for energy sector restructuring.
The successful initial implementation of the two-year Action Plan made
-2 -



possible the start of preparation of the proposed project, as well as the
resumption of disbursements under the Power Transmission and Distribution
Project.   The proposed project is contingent on continued success in
implementation of this plan.
The Government initiated a program of sector reform in late 1995 by
passing legislation providing for establishment of an electricity
regulatory agency, unbundling and corporatization of the power sector, and
the beginning of privatization. However, progress in implementing the
reform process was slow and the process was suspended in 1997 following
large-scale civil disturbances triggered by the collapse of several
pyramid schemes.     Believing that interest by foreigners in buying into
the power sector would be low until the political situation stabilized,
the Government, with the support of IDA, then turned its attention to the
competitive selection of a foreign utility to take over temporary
management of KESH through a management contract. However, this
initiative did not gain the support of all the donors. Eventually it was
agreed to have a more limited management assistance contract under which a
team from a foreign utility would provide advice to senior KESH management
on a day to day basis. This contract was awarded to Enel (Italy) in
2000.   The sector reform process is now starting up again, focusing
initially on strengthening the regulatory agency and restructuring KESH.
The proposed project would support this reform process.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The largest project component consists of rehabilitation and strengthening
of the transmission and distribution systems in the Durres, Elbasan and
Kucova regions. These systems have frequent unscheduled outages and high
technical losses because of overloading and worn out equipment, and they
have not benefited up to now from donor-financed investments. This
project component was chosen on the basis of a technical, economic and
environmental feasibility study carried out by Harza Engineering Company
International L. P., with financing by the United States Trade and
Development Agency.
The specific transmission and distribution components would be the
following:
- Durres Region: development of a 20 kV distribution network in northwest
Durres area and towards Gjiri Lalezit (a new tourist area); construction
of a new 10 km 110 kV transmission line between Ruzhbull and Porto Romano;
construction of a new 110/20 kV substation at Porto Romano with an
installed capacity of 2x25 MVA; (US$6.92 million including physical and
price contingencies);
- Elbasan Region: development of a 20 kV distribution network at
Kombinati I Drurit and the periphery of the city of Elbasan; construction
of a new 3 km double-circuit 110 kV line from the El-Fiber line to
Kombinati I Drurit; construction of a new 110/20 kV substation at
Kombinati I Drurit with an installed capacity of 2x25 MVA; (US$ 6.86
million including physical and price contingencies);
- Kucova Region: installation of a 20 kV distribution network in place of
the existing 6 kV network in the city of Berat and its surrounding area;
- 3 -



construction of a new 2 km double-circuit 110 kV transmission line from
the 110 kV Kucova-Uznove line to Berat Substation; rehabilitation of part
of the existing 110 kV transmission line from Kucova to Uznove by changing
the cross-sectional area of the line from ACSR 95 mm2 to ACSR 185 mm2;
installation of a new 110/20 kV substation in the city of Berat with an
installed capacity of 2X25 MVA; (estimated cost: US$ 6.78 million
including physical and price contingencies).
The second largest component consists of the provision and installation of
secure boxes to contain the meters that would be installed in
single-family dwelling units, and secure collective boxes that would hold
differing numbers of meters (average 16) and be installed in apartment
buildings. This component, in combination with meters being financed by
IDA under previous projects, by other donors and by KESH itself is
expected to allow the company to complete its program of metering all
consumers, including those of the hitherto separate pilot corporations.
Technical assistance would be provided by IDA for:
- power sector reform in order to support implementation of actions set
out in the Government's Power Sector Policy Statement;
- preparation of tender documents for the project components and
monitoring of the installation of those components;
- assistance to KESH in the establishment of an environmental cell capable
of conducting environmental assessments, preparing resettlement action
plans and monitoring environment-related activities and indicators;
- revaluation of KESH's assets;
- review of existing inventory control procedures aand recommendations for
improvement; and
- carrying out of consumer satisfaction surveys.
Training would be provided in procurement.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The locations of the transmission and distribution system components are
described in I.A.3. The site investigations have indicated that these
locations are not in any protected areas, sites of critical natural
habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas. There
would be no need to resettle any persons.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
- 4-



Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)     No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The main issue is the desirability of selecting sites for new substations
and rights of way for new lines that are away from environmentally
sensitive areas and do not require displacement of persons or houses.
This has been done, and the limited land to be acquired (for tower
foundations and substations) does not involve any resettlement and does
not affect any natural habitats or cultural properties.
Other issues are associated with: limiting exposure to electromagnetic
radiation by establishing that levels are within acceptable limits
(Albanian, EU standards); avoidance of PCBs in equipment purchased under
the project; ensuring that sewage water from substations is properly
disposed of; movement of men, materials and equipment during construction
(noise, dust); and noise and communications interferences during operation.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
NA
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
No significant adverse long term impacts are expected.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
NA
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Consistent with the requirements for a Category "B" project, Environmental
Management Plans (EMPs) have been prepared by KESH for the three regional
- 5-



transmission and distribution system sub-components. KESH has also agreed
to implement the associated mitigation actions. The EMPs are in the
Project Implementation Plan.
The adequacy of the EMPs has been reviewed. The EMPs fulfill the Bank's
standard requirements. KESH is being asked to make certain presentational
improvements.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The primary beneficiaries of the project would be the electricity
consumers, including vulnerable, low-income users. The users will
participate in project implementation through the survey of household
consumers that would be carried out as part of the Energy Sector Study, a
follow-up workshop and subsequent monitoring. Other consumers would
participate through the consumer satisfaction surveys.
Key stakeholders are the Government (through the Minister of Energy, the
Ministry of Public Economy and Privatization, and the Prime Minister),
KESH and the ERE. The Government would be responsible for the sector
reform aspects of the project and for giving KESH full support towards
reducing power losses and improving collections by such means as ensuring
that the police and the courts deal promptly with persons accused of
stealing electricity and delinquent debtors, and by ensuring that
Government agencies and state-owned companies pay their bills and arrears.
KESH would, as executing agency, handle procurement and disbursements and
implement the majority of the measures to improve financial performance,
such as reducing power losses, and improving collections, and it would
implement the internal organization improvements agreed under the
project. The actions to strengthen the ERE would require Government
decisions as well as implementation measures by the ERE (although the ERE
would not be a signatory to any of the project legal agreements). Once
these actions are decided by the Government, subsequent tariff changes,
including those taken under the project, will require applications by KESH
to the ERE for its approval. The Government would no longer be involved
in electricity tariff fixing.
For each of the three transmission and distribution components, public
consultation were held by KESH. In each case, a presentation was made to
interested stakeholders by KESH staff on the scope and objective of the
rehabilitation and strengthening foreseen under the project.      The
procedure followed for determining line routes and substation locations so
as to minimise environmental impact was described. The process to be
followed for land acquisition and determining market value was explained.
The mitigation and monitoring measures given in the Environmental
Management Plans were discussed. Clarifications were provided in response
to queries from the stakeholders.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
-6-



I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      1/30/2002        1/28/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure 1/30/2002         1/29/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop   1/31/2002        1/29/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Iftikhar Khalil 2/6/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Bernard Baratz
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Stan Peabody     2/6/2002
Sector Manager/Director:         Henk Busz       2/6/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 7 -



