Report No. PID10714
Project Name                     Albania-Power Sector Rehabilitation...
and Restructuring Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Electric Power & Other Energy
Adjustment
Project ID                       ALPE74905
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
Implementing Agency
Address ALBANIAN ELECTROENERGETIC
CORPORATION (KESH)
Address: Blloku Vasil Shanto, Tirana,
Albania
Contact Person: Dr. Gazmend Daci,
Director of Investment
Tel: 355 42 345 01
Fax: 355 42 345 01
Email: pmu-ptdp@icc.al.eu.org
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                February 20, 2002
Projected Appraisal
Date                             February 26, 2002
Projected Board Date             May 28, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
There are five main issues: (i) a serious and growing electricity
shortage; (ii) extensive unbilled consumption of electricity and
non-payment of bills; (iii) willingness/ability of consumers to pay for
electricity; (iv) power company financial difficulties; and (v) stalled
power sector reform. A serious and growing electricity shortage.
Although Albania was until a few years ago a net exporter of electricity,
conditions in the power sector have deteriorated, and Albania has been
facing a severe electricity shortage since the summer of 2000. The crisis
is the result of excessive demand caused largely by the chronic failure to
curb illegal use of electricity and non-payment of bills, and the impact
of less favorable hydrology on the predominantly hydropower-based system.
The excessive demand is both causing overloading of the transmission and
distribution systems and obliging KESH to resort to imported electricity.
The amount of electricity that can be imported is constrained by
limitations of the transmission network, thereby necessitating extensive
load shedding.Hydropower generation by KESH in the year 2001 was 3,547
GWh. This was much lower than the 4,593 GWh generated in 2000 and the
5,000 to 5,300 GWh generated in the previous two years, but slightly
higher than the average over the period 1990-94. KESH's thermal power
generation was only 137 GWh in 2001, plant use was 33 GWh and KESH had net
imports of 1,750 GWh. There was also load shedding of 900 GWh bringing
total demand to 6,301 GWh. The situation is likely to remain difficult
and could even deteriorate if the hydrological conditions experienced in
2001 continue or worsen, and demand grows.   Current estimates for 2002 are



for domestic generation of 4,150 GWh and imports of 1,500 GWh. Some
reduction in load shedding may be expected as a result of investments
under way to ease transmission bottlenecks which limit the amount of
electricity that can be imported. However, general overloading of the
transmission and distribution networks as a result of growing demand and
decades of inadequate investments for maintenance and strengthening will
result in continued unscheduled power outages until substantial
transmission and distribution rehabilitation and strengthening investments
are carried out. Some such investments are about to be implemented by
cofinanciers of the Power Transmission and Distribution Project (Credit
No. 2826-ALB).The need for electricity imports will continue indefinitely
unless demand is greatly reduced and/or supply is greatly increased. The
prospects for reducing growth in electricity demand (unless economic
growth slows) depend largely on success in reducing the amount of
electricity consumers take for free through illegal use and non-payment of
bills and in encouraging the use of other forms of energy, such as LPG,
particularly for space heating. To the extent that consumers are obliged
to pay for their consumption, they are likely to use less electricity by
economizing or switching to other forms of energy. While these demand
management measures could halt the rapid growth in demand and even bring
about a decline over several years, there would still be a large need for
imported electricity even under optimistic demand-reduction scenarios.
Imports are currently less expensive than new domestic power generation,
but the continued availability of large quantities of imported electricity
at low prices is uncertain. Therefore new domestic generation should be
considered, especially since it will take a long time to bring it into
production.Supply could be increased modestly and fairly quickly by
rehabilitating the 159 MW Fier thermal power station, which has been
operating at very low levels, and increased substantially by constructing
new power stations. At present there is no new power station under
construction, and since a new plant would likely take a number of years to
build, there will probably be no significant sustained increase in
Albanian electricity production before 2005. Domestic hydropower
generation will depend upon hydrology and will vary significantly from
year to year. Adding thermal power generation is therefore highly
desirable to reduce dependence on domestic hydropower and imports.Unbilled
consumption of electricity and non-payment of bills. Unbilled consumption
of electricity (illegal use due to tampering with meters or bypassing
them, and consumption by customers without meters in excess of billed
levels) and non-payment of electricity bills grew rapidly during the 1990s
through the year 2000. During 2000, KESH's power transmission and
distribution losses were 43.4w of electricity supplied to the grid, of
which about 20 percentage points were "non-technical losses," and
collections were 61.5t of billings. During 2001, which was the first year
of implementation of a two-year action plan (see "Government Strategy"
below), KESH's power transmission and distribution losses fell to 38t of
electricity supplied to the grid, of which about 14 percentage points were
"non-technical losses." In the same year, bill collection improved to
84.5w, including payments of arrears relating to previous years' bills.The
lack of progress before 2001 in tackling the problem relating to illegal
use and non-payment can be attributed to a number of causes. The
widespread extent of the problem is such that it requires strong and
sustained action by the Government as well as KESH. Unfortunately the
Government was unwilling and unable to take such action until recently.
One of the major contributing factors was the lack of appreciation on the
-2 -



part of the Government of the seriousness of the problem, despite the
warnings repeatedly conveyed by IDA and other donors. This stemmed
largely from the fact that Albania had a relatively abundant supply of
cheap hydropower and, even with the excessive demand growth, Albania was a
net exporter of electricity until 1998, and KESH was not facing
significant financial difficulties despite the high electricity losses and
low collections. This lack of appreciation was compounded by a succession
of political and social crises (the widespread unrest following the
collapse of several pyramid schemes in 1997, the Kosovo conflict of
1998-99), which diverted the Government's attention to relatively more
pressing issues.Willingness/ability to pay for electricity. Residential
electricity consumption increased from less than 400 kWh per household per
year in 1989 to nearly 4,000 kWh (including estimated unbilled
consumption) in 2000 and 2001. Electricity is the highest quality and
costliest source of energy for most household uses. This increase
suggests that Albanian households have enjoyed a rapid and large
improvement in well being.    Recent estimates for other jurisdictions are:
Armenia - 1,600 kWh, Croatia - 3,500 kWh, Kosovo - 5,300 kWh, Moldova -
800 kWh, Lithuania 1,400 kWh, and Latvia - 1,600 kWh. These estimates are
not directly comparable since these jurisdictions differ in relevant
variables such as per capita income, availability of low-cost alternative
sources of energy, climate and the number of persons per household
(Kosovo's high level is partly due to very large household sizes).
Nevertheless, they provide confirmation for the conclusion that Albanian
households consume unusually high amounts of electricity for their
relatively low incomes. The increase in Albania was due to widespread
switching to electricity for space heating, water heating and cooking from
other forms of energy such as wood and kerosene, and to the acquisition of
many new appliances. To the extent that bill collection is improved,
non-technical losses are reduced and electricity prices are raised to
cost-covering levels, household consumers will have to pay an increased
amount for electricity. As a result, there will likely be some reduction
in household electricity consumption as consumers switch to cheaper
alternatives or find ways of conserving energy. Some low-income consumers
may find it difficult to pay for the minimum amount of electricity and
other energy needed to meet the most basic requirements for decent living.
A household survey to be carried out under the Power Transmission and
Distribution Project will evaluate the affordability of electricity and
other forms of energy and make recommendations on the most appropriate
subsidy mechanism for low-income consumers. Public sector consumers also
have difficulty in paying their electricity bills. As of December 31,
2001, the total debt of public sector consumers to KESH was Lek 5.4
billion (US$ 39 million) compared to the debt to KESH of household
consumers of Lek 11.3 billion (US$ 81 million). The water supply
companies pay for very little of their electricity consumption, since
water prices do not cover costs and these companies have poor collection
rates. Several large state-owned industrial companies also have
difficulties paying KESH because of their own poor commercial
performance. Pending a strengthening of the financial performance of the
delinquent public sector enterprises, it will be necessary for the
Government itself to pay KESH on their behalf, for current bills as well
as arrears in some cases, as foreseen in the two-year Action Plan (see
"Government Strategy" below).     Power sector financial difficulties.
Until 1997, KESH's operating costs were low since nearly all its
electricity production came from hydropower plants, and it had hardly any
- 3 -



debt service obligations. Since then KESH's costs have increased steeply
as a result of the need to import rapidly increasing amounts of
electricity.   Moreover the revenue from sale of the imported electricity
falls far short of the cost.   Nearly 40% of the imported electricity
disappears through high power transmission and distribution losses and the
rest is sold at an average price per kWh which is less than the import
price (including tax). In addition, prior to 2001, less than two-thirds
of the amount billed to final consumers was paid. In 2001, KESH earned a
profit after taxation, but only because it received a subsidy from the
Government for purchase of imported electricity (US$ 31.5 million
equivalent). Even if KESH succeeds in improving its financial position by
achieving the large reductions in illegal use of electricity and
improvements in bill collection that it has planned for (see "Government
Strategy" below), the need for subsidies is expected to remain for a
number of years.The Power Corporations of Elbasan, Shkoder and Vlore (see
the next paragraph) have experienced financial difficulties since their
creation as "privatized" entities in 1995 as a result of their inability
to reduce non-technical losses and improve bill collection.    Elbasan's
performance has been the best of the three and comparable to that of
KESH.  Shkoder and Vlore were severely affected by the civil disturbances
which followed the collapse of the pyramid schemes in 1997.    In 2001,
Elbasan paid 81% of the amount billed to it by KESH, Shkoder only 2% and
Vlore 25%.     Stalled power sector reform.  During preparation of the
Power Transmission and Distribution Project, and with assistance from the
Bank, the Albanian Government began the process of reforming the power
sector. A comprehensive Regulatory Law was enacted in 1995, and in
mid-1996 the Electricity Regulatory Authority (ERE) was established. In
August 1995, Parliament approved an Electricity Law providing for
unbundling and possible privatization of the power sector and involvement
of independent power producers, and a Law on Privatization of the
Electrical Power Department providing for privatization of the power
sector beginning with distribution. In October 1995, the municipal power
distribution enterprises of Elbasan, Shkoder and Vlore were separated from
KESH and converted to joint stock companies in accordance with the Law on
the Transformation of State Enterprises into Joint-Stock Companies
(effective May 15, 1995). The objective was to privatize these companies
quickly as a pilot experiment and then to privatize the rest of
distribution. KESH itself was also converted to a joint-stock company.
In October 1995, Parliament approved a law requiring that at least 30% of
the shares of a privatized power sector entity be sold through the mass
privatization program and at least 30% of the shares be reserved for a
strategic investor.   From November 15 to December 20, 1995, 30% of the
shares of Elbasan, Shkoder and Vlore were auctioned in exchange for
vouchers. However, these shares were dispersed among many purchasers, so
that no shareholder apart from the Government was able to exercise much
influence on the management of these corporations. There was a delay of
about half a year by the Government in finalizing the contract with the
consultants selected to assist in privatization of the three pilot
companies and the rest of the distribution enterprises. By the time this
contract was signed in early 1997, widespread civil unrest had started as
a result of the collapse of several pyramid schemes. Progress on reform
was then suspended.    The Government (and IDA) judged that interest by
foreigners in buying into the power sector would be low until the
political situation stabilized. The privatization consultants then
commenced work on preparing the bidding documents for a foreign power
- 4 -



utility to take over temporary management of KESH and the three "pilot"
companies through a management contract. However, this initiative did not
gain the support of all the donors. Eventually it was agreed to have a
more limited management assistance contract under which a team from a
foreign utility would provide advice to senior KESH management on a day to
day basis. This contract was awarded to Enel (Italy), who commenced work
in September 2000. It has a duration of 18 months with the possibility of
an extension of six months. Enel has made contributions in many areas,
such as reorganization of KESH, establishment of computerized billing,
tariff reform, and preparation of the initial two-year Action Plan and the
January 2002 update.In 2000, ownership of the Government's shares in the
Power Corporations of Elbasan, Shkoder and Vlore was transferred to KESH
as the first step towards reabsorbing the pilots into KESH. The
distribution functions of these corporations will soon be taken over by
KESH. The ERE still exists, but until recently had inadequate staff and
other resources and was not allowed to exercise the full powers envisaged
for it under the law. However, its situation is beginning to improve.
The ERE is now financing its operations from fees paid by the licensees,
has been increasing its staff, and is gradually playing a more significant
regulatory role. Government strategy. Recognizing the magnitude of the
power sector crisis and its serious implications, the Government developed
in late 2000 a two-year-Year Action Plan to tackle the critical issues.
The plan includes measures to reduce electricity losses, improve
collections and reduce demand, as well as other wide-ranging measures to
urgently improve the performance of the sector. Implementation was
successful during the first year of operation, with the targets being
achieved.  The power losses of KESH were reduced from 43.4% in 2000 to
38.0% in 2001 (target 41%), and bill collection improved from 61.6% to
84.5% (target 80%). Collected revenue increased by 70%.     The January 2002
revised plan covering 2002 and 2003 is designed to reduce losses for KESH
and the pilot corporations by 3 percentage points in each of 2002 and
2003, and to improve collections of KESH and the pilots to 90% in 2002 and
92% in 2003.  In 2001, the combined losses for KESH and the pilots were
44.7% of electricity entering KESH's transmission system and the combined
collections were 82% of billings. Specific targets for each quarter have
been defined as well. Achievement of the targets for KESH including the
pilots, together with a projected increase in the average tariff level
(net of value added tax) from 4 Lek/kWh (2.9 c/kWh) in 2001 to 5.4 Lek/kWh
(3.9 c/kWh) in 2002, would result in the collected revenue increasing by
32%. The Government has also been developing a longer-term sector
strategy. In late 2000, the Minister of Public Economy and Privatization
appointed a special task force with members from the Ministry, the
National Agency of Energy, the Albania-EU Energy Efficiency Center and
KESH, to prepare a strategic action plan to reform the power sector. With
the assistance of consultants financed by USAID, the task force presented
its report on February 28, 2001. The report provides a list of
recommendations to strengthen the ERE, unbundle KESH, establish rules for
a new commercial energy market, and eventually privatize the power sector,
beginning with distribution, next with generation, and finally with
partial privatization of transmission. The same consultants are doing
follow-up work to assist in the preparation of a Power Sector Policy
Statement and to prepare new draft electricity legislation. In parallel,
the Government and KESH have been making efforts to find financing for new
power plants. China has offered to provide loan financing for the 80 MW
Bushati hydropower station on the Drin River, with average annual
- 5 -



production of 350 GWh and an estimated cost of US$ 150 million. The terms
and conditions of this offer are currently being examined by the
Government and KESH. KESH has also awarded a contract to GE Hydro
(Norway) to review power generation options in Albania and identify
financing options for new generation plants. The Government has also
asked the Bank to assist in arranging donor financing for a new 100 MW
thermal power station.
2. Objectives
The development objective of the project is to achieve significant
improvement in the operational effectiveness of the power sector through:
(a) implementation of electricity loss reduction measures; (b) enforcement
of billing, collection and disconnection policies; (c) introduction of
electricity price rationalization measures; (d) priority investments to
improve system supply and reliability; and (e) initiation of regulatory
strengthening and sector restructuring measures to improve sector
efficiency and establish the preconditions for competition and
privatization.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The power sector is in the midst of an electricity shortage that puts at
risk Albania's recently favorable macroeconomic performance and its
economic growth prospects. This provides the rationale for a new
initiative in the power sector at the present time. The value that the
Bank could add through the proposed project would come from: (i) its
experience with three other projects in the power sector in Albania since
1992; (ii) its experience with similar power sector issues in other
countries; (iii) its focus on sector policy issues; (iv) the technical
advice it could provide in areas such as investment planning, project
management, procurement, financial management, environmental improvements;
and (v) continuation of its leadership role among the other donors. As
noted in Section D.3, a coordinated donor approach has been very helpful
in focusing the Government's attention on addressing the power sector
issues. The Government and other donors including the IMF have shown that
they value the Bank's views by requesting its advice not only on
project-related matters but on other sector issues as well, and by acting
on this advice.
4. Description
The largest project component consists of rehabilitation and
strengthening of the transmission and distribution systems in the Durres,
Elbasan and Kucova regions. These systems have frequent unscheduled
outages and high technical losses because of overloading and worn out
equipment, and they have not benefited up to now from donor-financed
investments. This project component was chosen on the basis of a
technical, economic and environmental feasibility study carried out by
Harza Engineering Company International L. P., with financing by the
United States Trade and Development Agency. The second largest component
consists of the provision and installation of secure boxes to contain the
meters that would be installed in single-family dwelling units, and
secure collective boxes that would hold differing numbers of meters
(average 16) and be installed in apartment buildings. This component, in
combination with meters being financed by IDA under previous projects, by
other donors and by KESH itself is expected to allow the company to
complete its program of metering all consumers, including those of the
- 6-



hitherto separate pilot corporations.Technical assistance would be
provided by IDA for:- power sector reform in order to support
implementation of actions set out in the Government's Power Sector Policy
Statement;- preparation of tender documents for the project components and
monitoring of the installation of those components;- assistance to KESH in
the establishment of an environmental cell capable of conducting
environmental assessments, preparing resettlement action plans and
monitoring environmental-related activities and indicators;- revaluation
of KESH's assets; - review of existing inventory control procedures aand
recommendations for improvement; and- carrying out of consumer
satisfaction surveys.Training would be provided in procurement.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER 4.56
IDA 29.56
Total Project Cost 34.12
6. Implementation
Financing PlanOf the total project cost of US$ 34.12 million, IDA would
provide a credit in the amount of US$ 29.56 million, and US$ 4.56 million
would be provided by KESH to cover local costs. The cost estimates will
be reviewed during project appraisal.Lending ArrangementsThe IDA credit
would be lent to the Republic of Albania for 40 years with a 10-year grace
period and at the standard IDA service charge. The credit would be relent
to KESH for 20 years with a 5-year grace period and an interest rate of
Libor (US dollar rate) plus 0.75%.Implementation The proposed project
would be completed within the three-year period from October 1, 2002
through September 30, 2005. The Government would be responsible for the
policy actions designated as its responsibility in the two-year Action
Plan and the Power Sector Policy Paper. Management of the implementation
of the project would be carried out by KESH, with the Project Management
Unit (PMU) responsible for implementation of the Power Transmission and
Distribution Project continuing for the proposed project. Although the
PMU has operated satisfactorily since 1996 with periodic assistance on
procurement-related activities by consultants financed by Switzerland, a
Procurement Capacity Assessment has been be carried out, and the findings
are summarized in Annex 6.Financial Management and DisbursementIn
accordance with the Bank's financial management requirement, a Bank
accredited financial management specialist has reviewed the proposed
financial management system for the project to:(i) assess the project's
capacity and readiness for implementation; and(ii) review whether the
necessary elements are present for a sound project financial management
system such as adequate internal controls, project accounting, project
staffing and audit arrangements.Supervision and MonitoringTechnical
assistance would be provided for preparation of tender documents for the
project components and monitoring of installation of these components.As
this is a complex project with a major reform component, a significant
supervision effort by IDA staff would be required. IDA would carry out a
mid-term review by March 31, 2004. In addition to the topics covered
under the Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), the mid-term review would
include a review of the economic viability of the project components,
based on actual costs and benefits achieved to date, and of the overall
institutional and financial performance of KESH. This review would
identify any additional measures to be taken to ensure the efficient
-7 -



completion of the project and achievement of the project objectives.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the project and program depends on continuing
improvements in reducing power losses and improving bill collection.
Previous efforts failed to bring about continuing improvements in these
areas. However, the prospects of sustained success are greater this time
for the following reasons:- The extent of the problem has reached crisis
proportions and is having major macroeconomic implications. The
Government realizes that failure to address and resolve the root causes of
this crisis would have unacceptable political, economic and social
repercussions.- There is widespread public awareness about the extent of
the crisis, its causes and its implications, partly as a result of an
extensive media campaign. This has resulted in a greater acceptance of
the need for the tough measures that have been initiated by the Government
and KESH, and this in turn has made the task of implementing these
measures somewhat easier.- The extent and range of measures taken recently
is unprecedented.- Processing of the project is dependent on specified
loss reduction and collection improvement targets being achieved. The
two-year Action Plan targets have been met since implementation began in
January 2001.- There is a coordinated donor approach to the sector, and
the donors have repeatedly stated that future donor assistance would be
jeopardized if there are slippages in meeting the agreed performance
targets.Sustained reductions in losses and improved collections would
improve KESH's financial performance, making it easier for the company to
make the necessary expenditures to reduce, and eventually, overcome the
electricity shortage. Improved financial performance would also enhance
the attractiveness of the power sector to foreign investors and improve
the prospects for successful sector restructuring and privatization.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Experience since lending to the Albanian power sector began in 1992 shows
that: (i) implementation of the investments has been satisfactory; and
(ii) the Government has been prompt to pass the legislation necessary for
major reforms; but (iii) follow-up actions were ineffective; and (iv)
until recently KESH, partly because of inadequate government support, has
not been able to achieve a sustained reduction in power losses and
increase in bill collection, nor have KESH and the Government made much
progress towards implementing previously approved sector reform and
privatization. The failure in reducing losses and improving bill
collection has been the main cause of the poor sector performance and
resulted in the electricity crisis that the country has been experiencing
since summer 2000. Experience has also shown that a coordinated donor
approach to sector issues, including willingness to suspend disbursements,
has been very helpful in focusing the Government's attention on addressing
these issues.This experience is reflected in the project design in the
following ways: (i) major emphasis is given to reduction in both technical
and non-technical losses and improvement in bill collection, with
specified targets to be achieved by critical dates during processing and
implementation of the project; (ii) the Government's two-year Action Plan
designed to meet these targets has been endorsed by the donors and initial
implementation has been quite successful; (iii) the sector reform program
is being defined in a thorough and comprehensive way with substantial
technical assistance and would be endorsed by the Council of Ministers
prior to Board presentation, and the endorsement of the donors would be
- 8 -



sought; (iv) substantial attention would be given to institutional
strengthening, particularly of KESH through continued management
assistance, and of the ERE; and (v) a realistic time schedule would be set
for implementation of the program, with the objective of largely solving
the power loss and bill collection problems, improving KESH's financial
performance and strengthening the ERE. Bank staff will keep other donors
informed about progress in achieving the project's objectives, and will
propose donor meetings in order to ensure continuation of the current
coordinated approach to dealing with the sector's problems.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  Consistent with the requirements for a Category "B"
project, Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) have been prepared by KESH
for the three regional transmission and distribution system
sub-components. KESH has also agreed to implement the associated
mitigation actions. The EMPs are in the Project Implementation Plan.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Iftikhar Khalil
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-4171
Fax:   (202) 477-3284
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
March 1, 2002.
9



