                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000533




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IDA-36710)




                                       ON A

                                    CREDIT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 24 MILLION
                          (US$ 35.06 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO

                                    ALBANIA

                                    FOR THE

     POWER SECTOR REHABILITATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT



                                  June 22, 2007




Sustainable Development Unit
Albania/South East Europe Country Unit

Europe and Central Asia Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective June 2, 2007)

       1 Albanian Lek = USD 0.0102 / USD 1 = 97.27 Albanian Lek
                    1 EUR = USD 1.35 / USD 1 = 0.74

                                FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 ­ December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL            Adaptable Program Loan
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
EBRD           European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ECSEE          Energy Community of South East Europe
ERE            Electricity Regulatory Entity
FMR            Financial Monitoring Report
FY             Fiscal Year
GPRS           Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy
IDA            International Development Association
IFRS           International Financial Reporting Standards
IMF            International Monetary Fund
IRR            Internal Rate of Return
KESH           Albanian Power Corporation
NPV            Net Present Value
PAD            Project Appraisal Document
PDO            Project Development Objective
PMU            Project Management Unit
TSO            Transmission System Operator
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
USTDA          United States Trade and Development Agency
VAT            Value Added Tax

                                 Measurements

                           1 kWh = 1000 Watt-hours
                               1 MWh = 1000 kWh
                            1 GWh = 1,000,000 kWh
                          1 TWh = 1,000,000,000 kWh
                                1kV = 1000 Volts


                         Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
                     Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                       Sector Manager: Charles Feinstein
                 Project Team Leader: Iftikhar Khalil
                    ICR Team Leader: Demetrios Papathanasiou

                                              ALBANIA
               Power Sector Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 9
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 19
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 19
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 21
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 22
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 23
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 26
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 27
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 29
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 30
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 32
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 33
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Power Sector
Country:                Albania               Project Name:          Rehabilitation &
                                                                     Restructuring Project
Project ID:             P074905               L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-36710
ICR Date:               06/22/2007            ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:              ALBANIA
Original Total
                        XDR 24.0M             Disbursed Amount:      XDR 23.3M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Albanian Power Corporation (KESH)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/27/2001    Effectiveness:       10/23/2002         10/23/2002
Appraisal:             02/26/2002    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/20/2002    Mid-term Review:     11/23/2004         02/22/2005
                                     Closing:             03/31/2006         12/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Substantial
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings

Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Moderately
                                                                     Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance                Indicators             (if any)                  Rating

Potential Problem Project No                      Quality at Entry
                                                                        None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                           None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Power                                                              100                100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Infrastructure services for private sector development            Primary           Primary
Pollution management and environmental health                    Secondary         Secondary
Regulation and competition policy                                 Primary           Primary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization             Primary            Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                        Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Orsalia Kalantzopoulos              Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:            Charles M. Feinstein                Hinderikus Busz
Project Team Leader:       Demetrios Papathanasiou             Iftikhar Khalil
ICR Team Leader:           Demetrios Papathanasiou
ICR Primary Author:        Richard E. Hamilton
                           Demetrios Papathanasiou



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Achievement of significant improvement in the operational effectiveness of the power
sector through: (a) implementation of electricity loss reduction measures; (b) enforcement
of billing, collection and disconnection policies; (c) introduction of electricity price
rationalization measures; (d) priority investments to improve system supply and
reliability; and (e) regulatory strengthening and sector restructuring to improve sector
efficiency and establish the preconditions for competition and privatization.


                                                 ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target    Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval         Target        Completion or
                                              documents)         Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Electricity losses
Value
quantitative or 44.7%                      33.7%              38%            41.0%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                   12/31/2006         12/31/2004     12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The target was not met despite initial encouraging progress 2001-2004.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Billing Collection (excluding arrears)
Value
quantitative or 71.9%                      90.0%              89%            82.7%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                   12/31/2006         06/30/2004     12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The target was not met despite initial progress.
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   Tariffs are annually set by independent Regulator based on review of the
                associated costs
                                           New law passed                    New law passed
                                           under which                       under which
                                           strengthened                      strengthened
Value           Weak regulatory            regulator                         regulator
quantitative or framework with key tariff  determines tariffs                determines tariffs
Qualitative)    decisions taken by
                Government                 based on cost                     based on cost
                                           recovery and after                recovery and after
                                           appropriate public                appropriate public
                                           consultation                      consultation
Date achieved 12/31/2001                   12/31/2003                        09/30/2003
Comments
(incl. %        Target achieved with some delay
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Completion of rehabilitation of IDA-financed transmission & distribution sytems
Value
quantitative or 0%                         100%                              100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/20/2002                   12/31/2006                        12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Target achieved




                                                iii

achievement)
Indicator 5 :  Creation of Transmission System Operator

Value                                     Unbundling started              Transmission
quantitative orVertically-integrated      and Transmission                System Operator
Qualitative)   power utility              System Operator
                                          established                     established

Date achieved 12/31/2001                  12/31/2004                      12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Target achieved
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target    Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from                     Achieved at
                                              approval         Revised      Completion or
                                             documents)     Target Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Delivery & Installation of meter boxes and accessories
Value
(quantitative  0%                         100%                            120%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/20/2002                  09/30/2006                      12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Funds re-allocated due to SDR-USD rate, contributed into exceeding this initial

achievement)   target

Indicator 2 :  Completion of technical assistance
Value
(quantitative  0%                         100%                            100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/20/2002                  09/30/2006                      12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Target achieved
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  Completion of technical assistance
Value
(quantitative  0%                         100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/20/2002                  09/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                              iv

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                               Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                    IP         Disbursements
                                                            (USD millions)
  1   07/15/2002        Satisfactory         Satisfactory             0.00
  2   02/04/2003        Satisfactory         Satisfactory             0.00
  3   07/23/2003        Satisfactory         Satisfactory             0.00
  4   01/23/2004        Satisfactory         Satisfactory             0.72
  5   08/06/2004        Satisfactory         Satisfactory             4.76
  6   05/18/2005        Satisfactory         Satisfactory             8.16
  7   12/07/2005        Satisfactory         Satisfactory             8.57
  8   12/01/2006   Moderately Satisfactory   Satisfactory           28.80



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                          v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
At the beginning of Albania's economic transition in the early 1990s, the country was
virtually 100% electrified and was a net electricity exporter. However, while the three
hydropower plants on the Drin River Cascade, and smaller plants on other rivers, which
produced over 90% of total electricity supply, were in reasonably good condition, the
Fier thermal power plant and the transmission and distribution systems were badly run
down because of previous neglect of maintenance, and there were frequent power outages
due to overloading of facilities. Electricity demand within Albania fell initially to 79% of
the 1989 level by 1992 because of declines in industrial production. Thereafter it rose by
10.4% per year to 6,160 GWh in 2000. This increase was due mainly to a sustained surge
in consumption, much of which was not paid for, by households and small commercial
establishments. The quality of electricity supply was improved temporarily by
emergency repairs financed by donors, including the International Development
Association (IDA).

By 1998, Albania had become a net electricity importer. From the second half of 2000,
the need for imports increased greatly as a result of a fall in hydropower production
caused by reduced rainfall. The country was unable to get all the imported electricity it
needed because of transmission and financial constraints. The result was large load
shedding, which had serious adverse macroeconomic effects. The fall in hydropower
production between 2000 and 2002 had a direct and significant adverse impact on
national economic output, and the load shedding caused cuts in production by industry
and obliged other businesses to purchase and use costly back-up diesel generators.
Households had to suffer without electricity for many hours of each day.

The Albanian Power Corporation (KESH) was unable to pay for more than a small
proportion of the imports needed out of its own resources because of financial difficulties
caused by widespread illegal use of electricity, poor payment of bills and retail prices
which were below the cost of imported electricity. Faced with these difficulties, the
Government started providing a subsidy, but its large level (US$31.5 million) in 2001
diverted funds from other critical needs including poverty reduction measures.

The failure of the Government and KESH to adequately address the power sector's
shortcomings led to the suspension in 1997 of donor support for the sector. The Drin
River Cascade Rehabilitation Project (co-financed by the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), Austria, Italy, Japan and Switzerland) was
suspended in 1997 and in 1998 disbursements for the Power Transmission and
Distribution Project (co-financed by IDA Cr. 2826, EBRD, Italy, Japan and Switzerland)
were also put on hold. These were the two main donor-financed operations in the power
sector in Albania at the time. The suspension of donor support combined with KESH's
very limited financial resources delayed for several years badly needed rehabilitation and
strengthening of Albania's power system.




                                               1

The donors continued discussions with KESH and the Government during the period of
suspension. Following the Bank's recommendation, in 2000, the Government and KESH
focused on the preparation of a detailed Action Plan to address the main sector issues.
The Action Plan included specific targets to be met by KESH, so that the sector could
enter a period of financial viability.

The donors' support to the sector was reactivated with activities related to the Drin River
Cascade Rehabilitation in 2000 following the establishment of a contract with Enel (Italy)
to provide management assistance to KESH. Activities related to the Power
Transmission and Distribution Project also recommenced in 2001 following the
successful start of implementation by the Government and KESH of the first two-year
Action Plan. Part of the credit was reallocated to provide financing for household meters
and an Energy Sector Study.

The successful initial implementation of the Action Plan also made possible the
preparation of the Power Sector Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project.

The Power Sector Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project was supported by the Growth
and Poverty Reduction Strategy prepared by the Albanian Government in November
2001, with an update of the macro-fiscal framework and an IDA-IMF Joint Staff
Assessment in May 2002. It was also supported by the CAS that was considered by the
Board in June 2002 at the same time as the project. Both the GPRS and the CAS
emphasized the macroeconomic impact of the crisis in the power sector, its major impact
on the poor, and the critical importance of addressing the causes of the crisis and of
meeting priority investments.

The main justification for the project was the need to address the serious electricity crisis
that was putting at risk Albania's previously favorable macroeconomic performance and
its economic growth prospects. There was a necessity to support the Government's on-
going efforts to improve sector performance by providing significant investments. Given
the situation in the sector at the time, private investments were not forthcoming, and
limits had to be placed on non-concessionary borrowings in order to keep debt service
liabilities within manageable proportions.

The feasibility study carried out for the project also examined the alternative option of
rehabilitating the Fier thermal power plant, and several alternative transmission and
distribution investments. The Fier option was rejected because of its high estimated
levelized cost and because recent experience at other rehabilitated plants had shown a
large risk of frequent failures. Other transmission and distribution options were omitted
from the project because of lower economic rates of return.

The transmission and distribution investment components would contribute to improved
sector performance by reducing unscheduled outages and reducing technical network
losses. The metering components and the institutional strengthening and reform
measures would address the underlying cause of the crisis, namely excessive growth in
demand resulting from illegal use of electricity and failure to pay electricity bills.



                                               2

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
Achievement of significant improvement in the operational effectiveness of the power
sector through: (a) implementation of electricity loss reduction measures; (b) enforcement
of billing, collection and disconnection policies; (c) introduction of electricity price
rationalization measures; (d) priority investments to improve system supply and
reliability; and (e) regulatory strengthening and sector restructuring to improve sector
efficiency and establish the preconditions for competition and privatization.

The key performance indicators were: (i) reduction in load shedding; (ii) reduction in
power transmission and distribution losses (technical and non-technical) to specified
target levels; (iii) improvement in electricity bill collection to specified target levels; (iv)
reduction in outstanding bills of government budgetary and non-budgetary entities to
KESH to specified target levels; (v) improvement in KESH's self-financing ratio to
specified target levels; (vi) reduction of the government subsidy to KESH in accordance
with the agreed annually updated Action Plan; and (vii) implementation of the first phase
of a power sector reform program.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
Not applicable.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
The target population for the transmission and distribution investments under the project
was the electricity consumers in the regions of Durres, Elbasan and Kucova. The target
population for the meter boxes was the consumers who received them, spread all over the
country. Key policy actions supported by the project were directed towards consumers
who were not paying fully for their electricity consumption. The tariff reform measures
affected all consumers while the associated social measures were designed to benefit low-
income families. The sector reform measures affect all electricity consumers through
their impact on electricity availability, reliability and costs of supply.

1.5 Original Components (as approved) There were three principal components:
1.      Rehabilitation and strengthening of the transmission and distribution systems in
the regions of Durres, Elbasan and Kucova;
2.      Supply of individual and collective meter boxes for household consumers and
related accessories; and
3.      Technical assistance for:
(i)     Preparation of tender documents for the project components and monitoring of the
installation of those components;
(ii)    Support of the power sector reform process;
(iii)   Assistance to KESH for the establishment of an environmental cell capable of
conducting environmental assessments, preparing resettlement action plans and
monitoring environmental-related activities and indicators;
(iv)    Revaluation of KESH's assets and their allocation to the various units of KESH;
(v)     Review of KESH's existing inventory control procedures and recommendations
for improvement;
(vi)    Carrying out of consumer satisfaction surveys.


                                               3

Training was provided to staff of the Procurement Management Unit (PMU)

1.6 Revised Components
The second phase of the technical assistance for sector reform, involving carrying out of
due diligence and other preparation for the form of privatization recommended in the first
phase, was dropped in 2006 after the new government decided to proceed with
privatization of power distribution and to engage the IFC to prepare for and assist in
carrying out the transaction.

1.7 Other significant changes
The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) envisaged one supply and install procurement
package for the transmission and distribution investments. Subsequently it was decided
to have two lots, each awarded to a different contractor. The first was for the
transmission lines and substations; the second for distribution equipment including
transformation points (20/0.4 kV), 20 kV overhead lines and underground cable lines,
low-voltage overhead lines and underground cables, distribution boxes and installation.

The scope of the substation and transmission line investments covered under Lot 1 was
expanded and revised. Three 110/20 kV substations were constructed and another one
was expanded, instead of the originally planned three, and the routes of the transmission
lines were changed. The final component included: the construction of the new Porto
Romano substation, the Elbasan substation, the Berat substation and extension of the
Rrashbull substation, the construction of a new 110 kV overhead transmission line from
Rrashbull to Porto Romano, the 110 kV overhead transmission line T in Elbasan
substation, and the new 110 kV overhead transmission line Kucova-Uznove instead of
the reinforcement originally planned.

A second household meter component was implemented with financing from surplus
funds made available as a result of changes in the exchange rate between the SDR and the
US dollar during project implementation. The contract was for 16,478 meters for
apartment buildings, 50,000 individual meters, 1,364 secure boxes to hold the collective
meters, concentric cable and other cable for connections. An extension of the contract
provided an additional 18,870 individual meters. The total number of meters financed
covered by the original and second meter contracts, including 15% extensions of both,
was 141,543.

The closing date of the project was extended from March 31, 2006 to December 31, 2006
in order to give more time for completion of the transmission and distribution
investments and to complete the second meter component. The closing date extension
and the second meter component were approved by the Bank in January 2006.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The Project Appraisal Document notes that KESH, partly because of inadequate
government support, had not been able to achieve a sustained reduction in power losses



                                             4

and increase in bill collection, nor had KESH and the Government made much progress
towards implementing previously approved sector reform and privatization.

This experience was reflected in the project design in the following ways: (i) major
emphasis was given to reduction in both technical and non-technical losses and
improvement in bill collection, with specified targets to be achieved by critical dates
during processing and implementation of the project; (ii) the Government's Action Plan,
was updated and expanded to a rolling three-year plan, that was endorsed by the donors,
while initial implementation of the Action Plan during project preparation had been quite
successful; (iii) the sector reform program    was designed in a thorough and
comprehensive way with substantial technical assistance financed by the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID) and was endorsed by the Council of
Ministers prior to Board presentation and by the donors; (iv) substantial attention was
given to institutional strengthening of KESH, through the management assistance
provided by Enel and the project; and (v) a realistic time schedule was set for
implementation of the project, with the objective of largely solving the power loss and
collection problems, improving KESH's financial performance and strengthening the
ERE.

2.2 Implementation
Factors contributing to satisfactory implementation of the investments and technical
assistance include: (i) advance preparation of a detailed feasibility study, financed by the
United States Trade and Development Agency (USTDA), for the transmission and
distribution investments; (ii) implementation of the project by the competently managed
PMU within KESH that had been responsible for implementation of the previous IDA-
financed power projects; (iii) design of procurement arrangements to involve a limited
number of packages, using supply and install contracts for the transmission and
distribution investments, and (iv) provision of technical assistance for the preparation of
tender documents and monitoring of installation.

The-mid-term review carried out from February 22 to March 4, 2005 concluded that
implementation of the investment and technical assistance components had been
satisfactory. The Government, to assist in the successful implementation of the Action
Plan, prepared a satisfactory legal framework for the electricity sector and established the
Electricity Police to monitor losses and collections. The mid-term review noted only
some delay in awarding the two lots for the transmission and distribution investments
because a new site had to be found for the Elbasan substation after the initial site had to
be dropped as it had been included in the city's residential development plan. Of the total
of 21 covenants, 19 had been complied with, one partially complied with and one not
complied with. The covenant not complied with was the establishment of a treasury
system. This failure was due to problems in adapting the software for the new financial
management system to the restructuring of KESH. Since project progress had been
satisfactory to that stage, no corrective measures were considered to be needed.

The parliamentary elections in 2005 and the coming into power of a new government
slowed down progress towards the development objective; performance after 2004 was
worse than before. Loss and collection performance deteriorated from early in the year


                                              5

when the campaign started and KESH's General Manager resigned in order to run as a
candidate for parliament. The deterioration continued after the elections, with
considerable disruption being caused by the replacement of KESH's management team
and about 2,000 distribution employees. As a result, KESH's collected revenue, which
had grown from Lek 12.5 billion in 2001 to Lek 23.8 billion in 2004, reached only Lek
24.9 billion in 2006.

A key external factor known to be important at the time of project preparation, but which
was outside the control of KESH or the Government, was hydrological variations.
Hydropower generation from the three main cascades increased from low levels during
the project implementation period to high levels: from 3,542 GWh in 2001 to 5,325 GWh
in 2004, 5,351 GWh in 2005 and 5,424 GWh in 2006 (production in an average year is
4,050 GWh). This improvement allowed KESH to reduce load shedding. In addition, the
reduction in import costs attributable to increased hydropower production, together with
tariff increases, reductions in distribution losses and improvement in collections, allowed
KESH to improve its financial performance, thereby enabling it to do without the
electricity import subsidy after 2004 and to meet the self-financing and debt service
coverage covenants under the project. Realizing that poor hydrological years would
return, KESH, in compliance with an agreement under the Power Generation and
Restructuring Project (2004) established an Equalization Fund that was to be built up
during good hydrological years, but run down as necessary during dry years. However,
despite 2005 and 2006 being good years, KESH put very little money into the Fund,
mainly because of deterioration in bill collection and an increase in losses.

In late 2006 KESH depleted its hydro reservoirs by more than it would have done in the
past under similar reservoir conditions for that time of year. However, there was
unusually little rain then and in the first quarter of 2007. The combination of high losses,
lower bills collection, mismanagement of the water resources, dramatic increases in costs
of imported electricity, and a relatively dry year, resulted in a crisis for the power sector
in early 2007. To address the crisis the Government replaced KESH's General Manager
in March 2007. An updated Action Plan including a plan to meet KESH's cash
requirements for 2007 was agreed between KESH, the Government, the Bank and the
IMF in April 2007. It foresees the provision of Lek 5 billion from the Government to
KESH, on a non-subsidy basis, to settle all outstanding receivables from government
budgetary and non-budgetary entities.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The monitoring of the investments was carried out by the PMU with the assistance of
implementation consultants for the power transmission and distribution investments.
They prepared a satisfactory implementation completion report. The PMU monitored the
procurement of household meters and verified their installation.

The performance indicators were monitored on the basis of the detailed Power Sector
Action Plans, the detailed monthly reports sent to the Bank, and the annual Audit Reports.
The Action Plans provide historical data going back to 2000 and forecasts for three years
into the future of detailed electricity balances showing demand, production, load
shedding, trade, losses at all stages, and consumption; monthly losses and collections


                                               6

targets; current and projected tariff schedules, historical and forecast balance sheets,
income statements and cash-flow statements; import prices by year, investment
projections and loan repayment estimates. The Action Plans give directly or enable to be
calculated all the sector and outcome indicators for the project. The monthly reports
include corresponding monthly electricity balances and detailed reports on losses, billing
and collections, with the billing and collections data broken down by main consumer
categories.

Based on data provided by KESH in the monthly reports, the quarterly targets were stated
to have been met from the beginning of 2001 to the first quarter of 2005. However, there
were some adjustments made subsequently as a result of the annual audits that indicated
that some of these targets may not have been fully met, especially for collections.

The various successive versions of the Power Sector Action Plan have been used as a key
source of data for decision-making by various agencies, most recently for negotiations in
May 2007 between the IMF and the Government on financial transfers to KESH to
alleviate KESH's current financial difficulties.

The sector is also monitored by the Electricity Regulatory Entity (ERE), which is
expected to increasingly assume more responsibilities in the monitoring and evaluation of
the performance of KESH and the overall electricity sector. It is expected that as ERE's
regulatory capacity develops it could monitor effectively losses and collections, as well
as overall electricity supply under its institutional mandate.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
There was one relatively minor procurement issue. While the Bank was reviewing the
Bid Evaluation Report for the metering component, it received a complaint that the
recommended bidder did not meet the joint venture minimum requirement for experience
and technical capacity. KESH re-evaluated the Bids and awarded the contract to the most
responsive bidder.

The amount of land acquired was close to what was expected at the time of appraisal.
Land acquisition was carried out following the detailed procedures described in the PAD
and the process was documented as prescribed in the PAD with a periodically updated
table that was furnished to Bank supervision missions. The Resident Mission also
monitored KESH's handling of the land acquisition under the project.

In general, project financial management was handled satisfactorily throughout the
project life. The quarterly project financial monitoring reports were prepared and
submitted on time. Project financial statements were audited on an annual basis by
independent auditors and all project audit reports had unqualified (clean) opinions. The
financial management supervision was carried out in two main ways: (i) review of the
project's quarterly financial monitoring reports as well as the project's annual audited
financial statements and auditor's management letters; and (ii) during the Bank's
supervision missions, the project's financial management and disbursement arrangements
were reviewed and ensured compliance with the Bank's requirements.



                                               7

The audits of the implementing entity, KESH, for Fiscal Year (FY) 2002 -2004, done by
KPMG have had a disclaimer opinion on the financial statements, mainly due to the fact
that KESH had no financial statements issued and approved by the Company's
management. In addition, KESH's internal control environment did not appear to be
conducive to the reliable processing and accurate reporting of financial information and
efficient internal controls. Within the same period, the implementation of a modern
financial management information system by KESH, financed by the WB was not
completed successfully, due to a number of reasons: (i) frequent changes of managerial
level staff; (ii) frequent personnel changes; (iii) lack of commitment from KESH to
implement the system. This perpetuated the weaknesses within the internal control
framework. Action plans have been developed by KESH to address recommendations of
the auditors. However, KESH failed to address these recommendations in a timely
manner.

Deloitte Albania was appointed by KESH for the FY 2005 audit. Deloitte failed to
inform KESH that it had been previously involved in other consulting assignments for
KESH and thus were in a position of a conflict of interest to provide an independent audit
report. Deloitte issued an "Accountant's Report" instead, dated May 18, 2006. This was
not acceptable to the Bank, as it did not comply with the requirements set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the audit Terms of Reference to provide an
independent audit opinion on KESH's financial statements. Given the time lapsed, as
well as the high probability to receive a qualified disclaimer opinion, doing a new audit
of FY 2005 was not considered economically justified.

The Bank requested KESH the change of the auditors and submission to the Bank of
acceptable audited financial statements by 30 June 2007. KPMG was selected to audit of
the 2006 financial statements. It is expected that the FY 2006 audit reports (entity and
project) will be provided by July 31, 2007. The Bank has reallocated funding from its on-
going Power Generation and Restructuring Project to provide technical assistance to
KESH for the preparation of financial statements under International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) and training of its personnel. The Bank will continue to support the
development of KESH's financial management through the ongoing and future Bank
projects with KESH.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Operations and maintenance of the investments are being carried out by KESH's through
its normal overall operations and maintenance activities.

The institutional strengthening and sector reform activities are continuing with support
under the other IDA-financed Power Sector Generation and Restructuring Project and the
ECSEE APL2-Albania Project. A process is underway to separate the distribution
activities of KESH into a new discrete company and to privatize this company in 2008.
All of the assets created by the investments financed under the project except for the
transmission line segments will belong to the distribution company. This company will
be the entity mainly responsible for achieving future improvements in network losses,
collections and the other goals of the project.


                                              8

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The objective stated in the 2002 CAS to improve infrastructure and address the crisis in
the sector that "remains the major threat to continued macroeconomic stability, sustained
growth, and poverty reduction" has been supported not only by the project but by the two
subsequent projects. This objective has been relevant throughout the project and has
become critically important in 2007 as a result of the severe financial difficulties being
experienced by KESH.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The development objective was to achieve significant improvement in the operational
effectiveness of the power sector through specified institutional improvements and
quantitative targets, priority investments to improve system supply and reliability, and
regulatory strengthening and sector restructuring measures to improve sector efficiency
and establish the preconditions for competition and privatization.

The transmission and distribution investments were implemented in a satisfactory way,
with assistance from the consultants engaged to help in procurement and monitoring, but
the benefits have only begun to be realized since these investments were completed, as
planned, only at the end of the project implementation period.

The meters procured and installed are expected to contribute to more accurate
measurement of consumer consumption, reduction in distribution losses and
improvement in collections. KESH has a continuing need for new meters because of
rapid growth in the number of consumers. The number of consumers increased by about
200,000 from 2003 to 2006 to a total of more than 900,000, largely as a result of large
migration to Tirana and other cities and the desire of subunits of extended families living
in the same dwellings to have their own meters.

Procurement under the project was very good. KESH believes it achieved savings of
several millions of dollars by using international competitive bidding procedures
following World Bank guidelines, instead of using traditional bilateral contracting
procedures. The technical assistance component of the project on procurement has also
been important for KESH, because it enabled the company to improve its technical
capacity; KESH successfully prepared feasibility studies and procurement documents for
smaller substations rehabilitation on its own account.

The studies carried out under the technical assistance component were completed with
satisfactory quality and their recommendations have been largely implemented, thereby
contributing to the development objective. The sector reform study contributed to the
process of unbundling KESH, with a particular contribution towards determining that
there should be one separate national distribution company, and helped prepare for the
Government privatization program, which is now being implemented. However, the
Government did not accept the report's recommendation to have a management contract
for KESH until a satisfactory financial management system could be established, and



                                               9

opted to accelerate the privatization program by deciding to sell KESH distribution as
soon as possible.

The environmental unit of KESH was created, strengthened, and has played a significant
role during preparation and beginning of implementation of the Vlore Power Plant.

The report of asset revaluation served as the basis for KESH's asset and depreciation
revaluation for the year 2004 and subsequent years. The recommendations of the report
of the review of KESH's inventory procedures are being implemented.

Consumer satisfaction surveys were carried out in 2003, 2004 and 2005 and provided
useful feedback to KESH and ERE on consumer perceptions of company performance
and variations in these perceptions during the period of project implementation (Annex 5).
These surveys are to be continued under the Power Sector Generation and Restructuring
Project.

The institutional improvements were specifically covenanted and/or fixed as targets in the
annually updated Power Sector Action Plans approved by KESH and the Government
and also covenanted under the project.

A specified goal was to reduce load shedding in accordance with the Action Plans.
Estimated load shedding results were: 818 GWh in 2001, 851 GWh in 2002, 473 GWh in
2003, 556 GWh in 2004, 760 GWh in 2005 and 409 GWh in 2006. These amounts were
higher than expected during the years of favorable hydrology, 2003 through 2006.
They could not be justified on grounds of transmission constraints since actual imports
were less than 1,000 GWh each year from 2003 through 2006 and therefore far below the
amounts of well over 2,000 GWh that could have been transmitted. Procurement
difficulties were one reason for smaller imports than intended. Mission aide-mémoires
for November 2004, February 2005 and August 2005 reported that bids had to be
cancelled under the Albanian procurement law either because quoted prices were too high
or only one bid was received. KESH was unable to import during the first quarter of
2005 and in the Fall of the same year for this reason1. Import prices also rose over the
project implementation period because of an increasing regional supply shortage. Prices
paid by KESH in 2002 ranged from Euro 0.0257/kWh to Euro 0.0452/kWh for three
contracts, prices for two contracts in 2003 were Euro 0.028 and Euro 0.0295 respectively.
As mentioned above, the average in 2006 was Euro 0.048 and the expected average for
2007 is Euro 0.082. Another explanation for the load shedding was financial. The
import cost per kWh plus transmission and distribution costs, with an adjustment for
uncollected revenue, exceeded the retail sales price so that KESH's net profit would be
lower with larger imports. As a result KESH faces a tradeoff between reduced load
shedding and improved financial performance. The subsidy provided by the Government
until the end of 2004 was intended to compensate for the cost difference, but as this


1The Bank helped KESH to address this problem by financing technical assistance to improve electricity
import procurement procedures under the ECSEE APL2-Albania Project




                                               10

subsidy was phased out by the end of 2004 the tradeoff progressively became more
important.

The achievements of the project with respect to reduction in power transmission and
distribution losses, increase in collections and tariff increase can be evaluated with
reference to the following indicators obtained from the Seventh Power Sector Action
Plan:

                                   2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
Transmission and
Distribution Losses
(% of net transmission)            44.8    41.7    41.4       39.7      40.9     41.0
Collections (%)                    76.3    88.3    88.9       83.8      80.4     82.7
Average tariff (Lek/kWh)           4.41    5.25    5.95       6.70      7.21     7.25
Collected Revenue
(including VAT)
(Lek billion)                      12.50 17.50 21.32 23.84 24.06 24.86

The collected revenue figures incorporate the combined contributions of these three
factors. The increase in collected revenue was substantial and attests to the success of the
Power Sector Action Plans over the period of the project. However, the improvements
were uneven, with a big jump in 2002, substantial increases from 2002 to 2004, but small
increases in 2005 and 2006. Although the project did not become effective until October
2002, its preparation was conditional on satisfactory progress in implementing the Action
Plan. Therefore, the improvements in 2002 are relevant to evaluating progress towards
the Development Objective.

Electricity loss reduction measures are part of the Development Objective. A goal was to
reduce power losses to levels given in the Action Plans. Transmission and distribution
losses fell significantly in 2002, declined a little further in 2003 and 2004, but then
increased a little in 2005 and 2006 to 41%. This exceeded the targets fixed in successive
versions of the Action Plan for 2006 by a significant amount. Failure to achieve the loss
reduction target is a serious shortcoming since loss reduction was given great importance
at the time of resumption of IDA lending to the power sector in 2001 and in the PAD for
the project. Albania's power losses are among the highest in the world according to
World Banks statistics. It should be noted that KESH reports losses as an aggregate
figure of technical and non-technical losses. This is because the distribution section of
KESH is not technically ready to accurately measure its system losses, but also indicates
that there are problems of governance with its operations.

Demand growth diminished greatly after 2000 despite the limited reduction in losses,
probably because of the large increase in electricity prices discussed below.2 It is



2 Estimated demand in 2006 was only 3% higher than demand in 2001. By contrast, growth up to 2000
had been in excess of 10% per year. Two considerations in addition to higher prices related to load
shedding may explain the estimated small increase. The first is that the continuation of load shedding


                                                  11

essential to reduce losses in order to improve sector financial performance and to cut out
the extra electricity demand that resulted from households and other consumers being
able to access electricity without paying for it. This has been recognized by the new
management of KESH that has increased in 2007 KESH's efforts to reduce losses, with
some encouraging preliminary results.

Increase in bill collections was a goal of equal importance with reduction in losses. As in
the case of losses, there was initial improvement followed by deterioration. The 2006
collection result of 82.7% fell considerably short of the targets for that year set in
successive Action Plans. It is, however, encouraging that after KESH's management
change in 2007 there has been a strong effort to improve collections with some
preliminary positive results registered for April and May of 2007.

The variations after 2001 were almost entirely due to the variations in payments of
arrears of budgetary and non-budgetary entities. Receivables from these entities declined
from Lek 6,723 million in 2001 to Lek 2,227 million in 2006. Because of inability of
many of these entities to pay (especially the water supply companies, which have low
tariffs and considerably worse collection performance than KESH), the Ministry of
Finance paid on their behalf directly from the treasury, but sometimes through cross-
cancellation against arrears owed by KESH to the Government for taxes and social
security. The reduction in receivables from the budgetary and non-budgetary entities is a
considerable achievement since the payments made covered 100% of current bills as well.
This achievement falls a little short of meeting the original goal of paying off the arrears
over four years, but is nevertheless considered acceptable. During the years 2002
through 2006, non-collection from other consumers (about 90% due to households),
remained almost constant at just under 20% of the total annual amount billed.

The biggest contribution to the increase in collected revenue came from the increase of
the average retail electricity price from Lek 4.41/kWh (excluding 20% VAT) in 2001 to
Lek 7.25/kWh in 2006 (but the tariff reform of July 1 reduced the average tariff to Lek
7.13/kWh in 2007). This increase contributed greatly to improving KESH's financial
performance. The price increases were made by ERE on the basis of applications by
KESH, and KESH's proposals were also included in the Action Plans, which were
covenanted under the project. ERE largely --but not completely-- accepted KESH's
proposals. However, the price adjustments in July 2006 appear to have been based on the
recommendations of the Government rather than strict application of methodology.
KESH's proposals in recent years have been based on use of the tariff methodology
prepared with USAID-financed technical assistance and approved by ERE. To the extent



during the project implementation period may have reduced demand permanently by causing consumers to
convert to LPG or other sources of energy for heating and possible other uses. It could also have deterred
the establishment of new industrial plants. The second is that total demand may have been underestimated
because of the difficulty of measuring the amount of load shedding, which is included in the total.




                                                    12

that tariff increases are made in order to ensure adequate financial performance for KESH,
they serve as substitutes for failure to reduce network losses. The effect on KESH's
financial performance in terms of increasing collected revenue is the same.

A goal of the project was the introduction of price rationalization measures. The
measures were to be based on recommendations of the Energy Sector Study, which was
expected to be and was completed by the beginning of 2003. The Study recommended
the adjustment of prices to achieve a satisfactory financial performance of KESH, with
the price structure being adjusted to better reflect economic cost differences. During the
project implementation period, KESH made tariff proposals consistent with
recommendations of the Energy Sector Study, and these proposals were largely
implemented. During the project implementation period, as well as increasing the tariff
level, ERE improved the tariff structure by reducing price differences between non-
household consumer categories at the same voltage level for which the cost of service
would be the same. The cross-subsidy to the first block of household consumption was
reduced by reducing the width of this block from 300 kWh per month to 210 kWh. In
2006, the first block was eliminated completely, with all consumption being charged Lek
7/kWh (excluding Value-Added Tax, VAT). However, the same reform reduced the
price for consumption above the first block level from the previous Lek 9/kWh. This
increased the gap between price and cost (which is above Lek 9/kWh when account is
taken of the non-technical as well as technical distribution losses attributable to
households). It also removed the incentive for households to use LPG for heating. Apart
from this price reduction for household consumption, the tariff reforms during the project
implementation period contributed significantly to the development objective. Future
adjustments are expected to gradually align the tariff structure with the costs estimated
using the detailed tariff methodology developed with USAID-financed technical
assistance and adopted by ERE. However, it will take some time to completely remove
the cross-subsidy to households. Reducing the non-technical power losses will lower the
cost of supply to households and, therefore, reduce the difficulties of aligning tariffs with
costs.

In compliance with a covenant under the project, the Government began implementation
in 2004 of a mechanism to mitigate the impact of increases in electricity prices on
vulnerable consumers through adjustments in their electricity bills. A subsidy was
provided to vulnerable household consumers to cover the impact of existing and possible
future increases in tariff rates from the 2003 level. KESH deducted the subsidy amount
directly from the bills of identified consumers, and was to be reimbursed by the
Government for the total of the subsidy amounts provided. However, while it had been
estimated by the Energy Sector Study that about 90,000 consumers would be eligible for
the subsidy, by 2005 only about 40,000 consumers were benefiting. Moreover KESH has
not been able to get reimbursement for the subsidy amounts provided.

In July 2006, the new government replaced the previous subsidy mechanism with a
scheme to increase social security benefits by Lek 500 per recipient per month to 270,000
consumers, including vulnerable consumers as determined on the basis of defined income
criteria, but also civil servants with low salaries and disabled persons. The Lek 500



                                              13

amount was estimated to be the amount by which the average monthly bill of such
consumers would increase. The payments are made directly by local governments rather
than through KESH, but are conditional on recipients presenting their paid electricity
bills.

KESH achieved the self-financing goals of 35% in 2003 and 40% thereafter, but for the
years prior to 2005 the import subsidy was included in cash generation as assumed in the
forecast financial statements shown in the PAD. The import subsidy was reduced to Lek
255 million in 2004 and zero in 2005 and 2006. This performance was on target.

One of the major achievements of the project was that the first phase of the power sector
reform program was implemented. The Law on Regulation of the Electricity Sector,
enacted in August 2003, provided for strengthening of ERE, and removed the authority of
the Government to fix a price cap. The Transmission System Operator, created from the
separation of transmission from KESH, was registered as a joint-stock company on July
14, 2004 with KESH as the holding company. The Transitional Market Model was
approved in August 2004. The two largest electricity consuming companies have been
granted the right to become eligible consumers and choose their own suppliers.
Technical assistance funded by USAID continued throughout the project implementation
period and contributed greatly to advancing the reform process. The strengthening of
ERE's independence and the creation of the Transmission System Operator (TSO)
enabled Albania to meet the initial conditions of membership in the Energy Community.
The second phase leading to privatization and further implementation of the market
model commenced with the Government's decision in 2006 to privatize power
distribution3.

3.3 Efficiency
Since the transmission and distribution investments for which the ex-ante project
economic and financial analyses had been presented in the Project Appraisal Document
were only completed in late 2006 there has been insufficient operation experience to
permit fully satisfactory ex-post economic and financial analyses to be made. Experience
during the first four months of 2007 showed significant reductions in network losses in
the project areas of the Kucova and Elbasan regions (from 41.7% in the first four months
of 2005 in Kucova to 33.5% in 2007 and from 43.4% in early 2005 in Elbasan to 30.4%
in early 2007) and significant reductions in outages in the project areas in the Durres,
Kucova and Elbasan regions. However, losses were higher in the Durres region as a
result of poor performance by the local KESH staff, which had been changed in late 2006,
and of large demographic moves in the area. Another reason is that the 20 kV network
included in the project in Durres was only connected to the 0.4 kV distribution network in
March 2007. Sales in the first four months of 2007 were lower in Kucova and Elbasan


3IFC is providing advisory services to help implement the sale of the distribution system, with a goal of
completing the sale in 2008.




                                                  14

than in 2005, because of load shedding due to lack of hydroelectric reserves. These
unexpected results are expected to be reversed in the near future, and sales are expected
to increase steadily in all three regions over much of the lifetime of the investments.
However, even with these anomalies, and assuming that the net benefits achieved from
January to April 2007 continue for 20 years with no further improvement, the net present
value of the transmission and distribution investments was estimated to be US$7 million
and the economic rate of return is 17%. These results are satisfactory.

The financial rate of return is only 2%. The main reason it is lower than the economic
rate of return is that the value of additional sales for purposes of the financial analysis is
the 2007 average retail tariff rate of US$0.077/kWh less the value of reduction in
transmission and distribution losses, rather than the higher willingness to pay value less
the value of reduction in transmission and distribution losses used for the economic
analysis (US$0.25/kWh). Because of the high import price in 2007 this value is negative.
This reflects the policy of basing KESH's tariff level on the average of the low costs of
hydropower production and the high import costs. The investment costs used for the
financial analysis included import duties and other taxes.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.
The development objective, and its subcomponents, were and still are the relevant
objective ones for the power sector. The investments were highly important, it was
possible to enlarge them and they were implemented within the IDA credit ceiling and
with only a minor and justified delay. Performance was satisfactory with respect to: (i)
implementing physical infrastructure investments; (ii) improving electricity tariffs; (iii)
paying off arrears of budgetary and non-budgetary entities; (iv) improving KESH's self-
financing capability; (iv) phasing out the import subsidy; and (v) implementing the first
phase of the sector reform program. The estimated internal rate of return for the
transmission and distribution investments is satisfactory. The above achievements are
quite significant in terms of progress in sector reform. Moreover, the rationalization of
tariffs and the significant reductions of budgetary and non-budgetary arrears are results
that have changed significantly the atmosphere in the sector and are a considerable
improvement with respect to many comparable neighboring countries.

The rationale for limiting the rating to moderately satisfactory is that the reductions in
losses and increases in collections fell short of meeting the targets set and improvements
in these areas had been given high priority in the PAD. Performance in reducing load
shedding was also less than expected. High electricity losses are a result of the inability,
or lack of will, by KESH and the Government to enforce discipline among consumers
and within KESH's distribution division, especially after early 20054. Losses of more
than 40% cannot be justified on technical grounds and it is estimated that more than 25%
of electricity is lost due to theft and the inability of KESH's personnel to monitor and


4The Implementation Status Report of January 2006 was Satisfactory. The overall reduced
rating reflects the deterioration of the situation during 2006.



                                                   15

meter accurately the electricity consumption in its network. This is indicative of issues of
governance and corruption in the sector. The change of KESH's management in March
2007 is producing some preliminary encouraging results but, as it has taken place after
project completion, these cannot be considered for the overall project rating.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Households suffered considerably from load-shedding. Poorer households are also less
able to afford to buy and operate back-up power generators than those better off.
Reductions in load shedding will depend on improved hydrological conditions, but
particularly on improved financial performance of KESH distribution.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)
Institutional improvement was a major focus of the project. The establishment and use of
the Action Plan served an important role in restoring donors' confidence in the sector,
assisted KESH in managing its business in a professional manner, and guided the
decisions by the Government related to the sector. The power sector reform program,
setting of tariffs and strengthening of the regulator have been significant achievements in
the sector. Recent increased interest in private investment for electricity generation in the
country can be partially attributed to a rationalization of the finances of the sector.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
None.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Methodologically sound consumer surveys were carried by consultants financed under
the project in 2003, 2004 and 2005. The results are summarized in Annex 5. A key
finding is that 65%of households surveyed in 2003, 42% in 2004 and 59% in 2005 found
the quality of service unacceptable. The main reason for this result is load shedding. It is
also significant that a majority of the households surveyed used LPG, mostly for space
and water heating. The price incentive given by the high second block price for
household consumers during those years probably contributed to this result. Most
company and institutional consumers and many household consumers used backup power
generators. Load shedding was undoubtedly the reason for the use of backup generators
and probably contributed to the use of LPG as well.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: The risk to development outcome is assessed as Substantial mainly because of
KESH's severe cash difficulties brought on by very poor hydrology since late 2006, a
simultaneous steep rise in import prices, and because the development outcome depends
on successful privatization of KESH to a buyer capable of solving the company's
problems. The likelihood of successful privatization is itself reduced by the financial
crisis.




                                               16

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
There were no significant shortcomings in identification, preparation and appraisal. The
project focused on the key factors needed to get the power sector out of its current crisis
and avoid similar crises in future. Particularly commendable features were: (i) the
Bank's role to focus on the approval by the Government of the Power Sector Action Plan
process, which provided the basis for the institutional improvements and a detailed
quantitative monitoring mechanism; and (ii) the Government-approved Power Sector
Policy Statement, which provided the basis for the sector reforms.

The risk assessment focused on the appropriate risks and the ratings were realistic. The
risk of disruptions cause by a change in government, however, was not included in the
list. Project processing was carried out with only 28 staff weeks.

The project would get a higher rating if it had commissioned an analysis of the severity of
the problem regarding meters during preparation. The actual demand for meters and
growth in new customers appear to have been significantly underestimated. Finally, the
performance indicators were ambitious because targets were set for the whole sector
although the project supported limited physical investments in specific areas.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory.
The project team monitored all aspects of the project continuously and responded
promptly to issues, looking for and generally finding practical solutions that were
implemented. A number of useful proposals were put forward and were implemented
including: the two-block tariff for households, the first social subsidy scheme for
vulnerable household electricity consumers and the equalization fund. The Bank's task
manager was highly respected by the senior management of KESH and the concerned
Ministers, and his advice was frequently sought by them not only on issues relating to the
project but on other matters in the power sector as well.

A change in approach to the project, supported by senior management and the other
donors, took place starting with the election campaign in mid-2005 and continued until
the project closed. Before that, because of the after-effects of the Bank's suspension of
disbursements from 1998 to 2000, KESH was expected, on the basis of the legal
agreements, to meet the quarterly loss reduction and collection targets. On the one
occasion before 2005 when a monthly report showed that the targets of the most recent
quarter (third quarter of 2002) had not been met, the Bank decided to suspend preparation
of a new project for six months, pending an improvement of performance. However,
when the quarterly targets were not met after the beginning of 2005 there was no
corresponding response by the Bank, or the other donors. It was accepted, realistically,
that it would be difficult to meet the targets during the elections campaign and during the
initial months after the new government came into power. However, the Bank and other



                                              17

donors should probably have insisted more on KESH and the Government improving
sector performance through all of 2006.

In 2007, the Government, the Bank, and other donors, have agreed on an updated Action
Plan that aims to restore the financial viability of the sector, but as this is expected to be a
relatively dry year, it is anticipated that the sector will continue to face difficulties.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The questionable change in approach after 2005 and the failures of the sector to meet the
quarterly targets is the reason for not giving a higher rating than satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
The Government performed well in adopting the Power Sector Action Plan and the
Power Sector Policy Statement during project processing, and in carrying out the power
sector reform program and largely paying off the arrears of budgetary and non-budgetary
entities. It established a social subsidy mechanism to compensate vulnerable consumers
for electricity price increases, but failed to follow through fully on implementation. It
replaced the first scheme with a new scheme with no clear advantage. It is early to judge
whether the new scheme will work in a satisfactory manner, but early results are mixed.
The Government caused temporary disruption in the performance of KESH by replacing
almost all of the management team of KESH at the level of directors, and about 2,000
distribution employees after an election. It also reduced the de-facto independence of
ERE by persuading it to replace the two-block tariff for households with a single price
and to greatly reduce the price for high-voltage consumers.

ERE's performance was Moderately Satisfactory. It was greatly strengthened in terms of
number of personnel and establishment of rules and procedures; it raised the electricity
tariff sufficiently to make a very important contribution to improving KESH's financial
performance and it reduced distortions in the tariff structure.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.
KESH's performance was highly satisfactory during project preparation, when the Action
Plan was prepared and adopted, and large improvements were achieved in terms of
reductions in losses, improvement in collections and increase in tariff. The PMU of the
project did an excellent job in managing the investment and technical assistance
components of the project. It is notable that PMU's management benefited from
knowledge transfer from the implementation consultants that enabled the company to
undertake smaller similar investments on its own account.

KESH's performance as a whole, however, while satisfactory during project appraisal
and initial implementation turned moderately unsatisfactory during project
implementation. On the positive side, KESH carried out the creation of the transmission
company in a satisfactory way. It also deserves credit for much of the reduction in


                                                18

arrears of government entities and for the tariff increases, which were based on its
applications to ERE. However, it failed to achieve any significant improvement in
collections from non-government consumers after 2001 and reduced network losses by
only about four percentage points, with some of the reductions achieved before 2005
being reversed in 2005 and 2006. These two failures left the company highly vulnerable
to the crisis of 2007. KESH did not reduce load shedding by as much as it could have
during the years of high hydropower production.

KESH managed to phase out its need for the import subsidy by the end of 2004. It
created an equalization fund to help cope with fluctuations in import costs due to
variations in hydrology, but failed to put much money into the fund when hydrology was
above normal. Finally, KESH failed to take advantage of the large amount of technical
assistance provided under the Power Transmission and Distribution Project to establish a
satisfactory financial management system for the company as a whole, though the system
for the project was satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The increases in tariff, elimination of most of the arrears to KESH of government entities
and carrying out of the first stage of the power sector reform process were important
contributions that point to considerable progress in the sector. Albania's neighboring
countries, for instance, are still quite behind in establishing reasonable cost-based tariffs.
On the other hand, the limited success in reducing distribution losses and improving
collections from non-government consumers were significant shortcomings.

6. Lessons Learned
As the Bank contemplates its future involvement in the sector it probably should:
(i) design projects with more concrete results indicators and avoid stretched targets at the
national levels; (ii) continue to have targets for performance (Action Plan) because these
were very helpful to improve the performance of the sector; and (iii) put clear triggers for
future engagement in the sector.

The chief lesson learned is that continuation of the management and operation of KESH's
distribution system is too sensitive to political interference and may not be likely to solve
the distribution loss and bill collection problems easily.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Government is in full agreement with section on lessons learned regarding the
performance indicators of KESH. It intends to address the problems through privatization
of KESH distribution. In the meantime it has appointed a new General Manager who is
giving high and widely publicized priority to loss and collection improvements prior to
privatization. Both of these initiatives are appropriate.

There appears to be an inconsistency between the Borrower's ICR and the Bank's earlier
draft, concerning the tariff changes made in 2006. The Bank is of the opinion that the
Government influenced ERE to adopt the proposed changes. The Borrower's version is


                                              19

that ERE made the changes against the recommendations of both the Ministry of
Economy and KESH. Based on the Aide-Mémoire of the May 29- June 6, 2006 mission,
the Borrower is strictly speaking correct in its ICR, however the final tariff structure was
quite close to a proposal by the a Government committee that included the Ministry of
Economy. This proposal included raising the first block price to Lek7/kWh and the block
width to 600 kWh per month.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
Not applicable




                                             20

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                 Appraisal      Appraisal                     Actual/Latest
                                                 Estimate     Actual/Latest      Estimate
         Components               Estimate                       Estimate                   Percentage of
                                Foreign Cost    Local Cost     Foreign Cost     Local Cost   Appraisal
                               (USD millions) (USD millions)  (USD millions)       (USD
                                                                                 millions)
1. TRANSMISSION AND                                     0.55                       1.03
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.                    17.55                          21.03                   120%

2. CONSUMER METER                                       3.87                       3.15
BOXES.                                   5.90                          10.18                   172%

3. TECHNICAL                                            0.57                       0.58
ASSISTANCE AND                           3.28                           3.85                   116%
TRAINING.

               Total Baseline Cost          26.73              4.99          35.06            4.76
Physical Contingencies                       1.75              0.03
Price Contingencies                          1.42              0.14
                Total Project Costs         29.90              5.16          35.06            4.76
Project Preparation Fund                     0.00              0.00           .00
Front-end fee IBRD                           0.00              0.00           .00
        Total Financing Required            29.90              5.16          35.065           4.76




(b) Financing
                                                    Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds              Type of      Estimate       Estimate      Percentage
                                    Cofinancing       (USD           (USD       of Appraisal
                                                    millions)      millions)
Borrower                                          5.16          4.76           92
International Development
Association (IDA)                                 29.90         35.06          117




5It should be noted that the USD equivalent of the actual project cost was significantly
higher than the estimate during project appraisal because of exchange rate fluctuations.
These resulted in more USD being available for project implementation for the initial SDR
commitments.



                                            21

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

There were three principal components:

1.      Rehabilitation and strengthening of the transmission and distribution systems in
the regions of Durres, Elbasan and Kucova;

2.      Supply of 141,543 individual and collective meter boxes for household consumers
and related accessories; and

3.      Technical assistance and training.

Technical assistance:

(i)     Preparation of tender documents for the project components and monitoring of the
installation of those components;

(ii)    Support of the power sector reform process;

(iii)   Assistance to KESH in the establishment of an environmental cell capable of
conducting environmental assessments, preparing resettlement action plans and
monitoring environmental-related activities and indicators;

(iv)    Revaluation of KESH's assets and their allocation to the various units of KESH;

(v)     Review of KESH's existing inventory control procedures and recommendations
for improvement; and

(vi)    Carrying out of consumer satisfaction surveys.

Training was provided to staff of the Procurement Management Unit (PMU)




                                            22

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The ex-post economic analysis was carried out for Component 1 of the project involving
rehabilitation and strengthening of the transmission and distribution systems in the
regions of Durres, Elbasan and Kucova. The same methods and assumptions were used
as in the ex-ante analysis. However, since the investments were only completed in late
2006, and, in the case of Durres, the connection of the new facilities to the existing low-
voltage grid was only completed in March 2007, available data on the results of operation
of Component 1are limited to the first four months of 2007. The analysis is based on
comparison of results for the first four months of 2007 with the first four months of 2005.
It was assumed that the benefits achieved during January to April 2007 would continue at
the same rate for the rest of 2007 and continue over the estimated 20-year lifetime of the
new facilities. This is a conservative assumption, in particular since the new electricity
sales made possible by the project are expected to increase steadily for some years.

Three benefits were measured - sales increases, reduction in network losses, and
reduction in energy not served due to reduced unscheduled outages.

For Kucova and Elbasan, where sales were lower in early 2007 than in early 2005, the
benefit in terms of increased sales was put at zero. The increased sales in Durres were
valued at US$0.129, which was calculated as the difference between:
(i) the average of the cost of electricity from individual diesel generators (computed at
US$0.43/kWh based on the current price of Lek 110 per liter of diesel oil) and the
average retail tariff (US$ 0.077/kWh); and
(ii) the value of reduction in network losses (see below) adjusted for technical
distribution losses of 20%.

Reduction in network losses was valued at US$0.103/kWh, computed as the estimated
average electricity import price for 2007 of US$0.98/kWh adjusted upwards by
transmission costs and losses of 5%.

Energy not served was valued at US$0.25/kWh.

The investments exclude import duties. O & M costs were taken as 2% of total
investments.

The net present value was computed using a discount rate of 12%.

The ex-post financial analysis was carried out in the same way, but with the following
three differences:

(i) additional sales were valued at the 2007 average tariff rate of US$0.077/kWh less the
value of reduction in transmission and distribution losses;
(ii) Energy not served was also valued at the 2007 average tariff rate; and
(iii) Investment costs include import duties.




                                              23

The financial rate of return is only 2%. The main reason it is lower than the economic
rate of return is that the value of additional sales for purposes of the financial analysis is
the 2007 average retail tariff rate of US$0.077/kWh less the value of reduction in
transmission and distribution losses, rather than the higher willingness to pay value less
the value of reduction in transmission and distribution losses used for the economic
analysis. Because of the high import price in 2007 this value is negative. This reflects
the policy of basing KESH's tariff level on the average of the low costs of hydropower
production and the high import costs, as discussed in Section 3.2, where it was pointed
out that KESH faces a tradeoff between reducing load shedding and improving financial
performance. Since the value of additional sales is negative, the benefit for this item was
treated as zero. The second reason the financial rate of return is less than the economic
rate is that reductions in energy not served were valued at the 2007 tariff rate rather than
the value of US$0.25/kWh used for the economic analysis. The investment costs used for
the financial analysis included import duties and other taxes. Although the financial rate
of return is unsatisfactory, the satisfactory economic rate of return justifies the project.
Moreover, the actual financial rate of return is likely to become satisfactory as ERE
adjusts tariff rates according to the methodology it has adopted so as to recover the costs
of justified investments.




                                               24

            POWER SECTOR REHABILITATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
            ESTIMATION OF NET PRESENT VALUE AND ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN

                                             2003  2004   2005     2006  2007   2026
Durres Region
Energy Sales (GWh)                                        325.3          345.9  345.9
Sales Increase (GWh)                                                      20.6   20.6
Losses (%)                                                 36.3           41.9   41.9
Electricity Entering Distribution (GWh)                   510.7          595.4  595.4
Losses (GWh)                                              185.4          249.5  249.5
Losses at 2005 Loss Percentage (GWh)                    185.4           216.1  216.1
Reduction in Losses (GWh)                                                -33.3  -33.3
Energy Not Served (GWh)                                     5.2            4.3    4.3
Reduction in Energy Not Served (GWh)                                       0.9    0.9

Kucova Region
Energy Sales (GWh)                                        101.5           84.2   84.2
Sales Increase (GWh)                                                         0      0
Losses (%)                                                 41.7           33.5   33.5
Electricity Entering Distribution (GWh)                   174.1          126.6  126.6
Losses (GWh)                                               72.6           42.4   42.4
Losses at 2005 Loss Percentage (GWh)                       72.6           52.8   52.8
Reduction in Losses (GWh)                                                 10.4   10.4
Energy Not Served (GWh)                                     0.8            0.3    0.3
Reduction in Energy Not Served (GWh)                                       0.5    0.5

Elbasan Region
Energy Sales (GWh)                                        237.4          208.9  208.9
Sales Increase (GWh)                                                         0      0
Losses (%)                                                 43.4           30.4   30.4
Electricity Entering Distribution (GWh)                   419.4          300.1  300.1
Losses (GWh)                                              182.0           91.2   91.2
Losses at 2005 Loss Percentage (GWh)                      182.0          130.3  130.3
Reduction in Losses (GWh)                                                 39.0   39.0
Energy Not Served (GWh)                                     0.6            0.2    0.2
Reduction in Energy Not Served (GWh)                                       0.4    0.4

Totals
Sales Increase (GWh)                                                      20.6   20.6
Value ($/kWh)                                                            0.129  0.129
Sales Increase ($ million)                                                 2.7    2.7

Reduction in Losses (GWh)                                                 16.1   16.1
Value ($/kWh)                                                           0.1029 0.1029
Reduction in Losses ($ million)                                            1.7    1.7

Reduction in Energy Not Served (GWh)                                       1.8    1.8
Value ($/kWh)                                                             0.25   0.25
Reduction in Energy Not Served ($ million)                                0.45   0.45

Total Benefits ($ million)                                                 4.8    4.8

Investment ($ million)                                     21.1
O and M Costs ($ million)                                                 0.44   0.44

Net Benefits ($ million)                                  -21.1      0     4.3    4.3

NPV =            $6.89 million
IRR =              0.17




                                                25

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                        Title                Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                        Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Bernard Baratz           Consultant                         EASTE
Olav Rex Christensen     Sr Financial Management Specia     ECSPS
Angelica A. Fernandes    Procurement Analyst                ECSPS
Elona Gjika              Financial Management Analyst       ECSPS
Artan Guxho              Projects Officer                   ECSSD
Richard E. Hamilton      Consultant                         CSEIF
Kishore Nadkarni         Consultant                         QAG



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                      28                        183.04
  FY03                                                                  0.25
  FY04                                                                  0.00
  FY05                                                                  0.00
  FY06                                                                  0.00
  FY07                                                                  0.00
                        Total:              28                        183.29
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                                                  0.00
  FY03                                      12                         69.22
  FY04                                      20                         83.87
  FY05                                      18                         80.95
  FY06                                      12                         57.60
  FY07                                       6                         32.61
                        Total:              68                        324.25




                                         26

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Consumer surveys were carried out by consultants financed by the IDA credit during
2003, 2004 and 2005. The surveys included (i) structured interviews with a
representative sample of customers using a questionnaire; and (ii) focus group
discussions with a representative sample of customers. Around 850 household customers
were included in the questionnaire survey in each of the three years in the target regions
of Tirana, Elbasan, Korce and Shkoder, around 100 companies and around 55 institutions.
Each focus group consisted of four or five representatives of the three customers groups.
The focus groups provided more room than the questionnaires for open questions,
voicing opinions and making recommendations.

Comprehensive information was gathered on a wide variety of subjects relating to
household characteristics such as income, energy consumption, and on relations with
KESH, and on similar characteristics of the sampled companies and institutions and their
relations with KESH. The following discussion summarizes the results for each of 2003,
2004 and 2005 for a small number of the subjects covered.

The proportion of household consumers using backup power generators was 9% in 2003,
16% in 2004 and 10% in 2005. The proportion using gas (reported as natural gas but in
fact liquefied petroleum gas for nearly all or all consumers) was 71% in 2003, 86% in
2004 and 81% in 2005. The proportion using wood or coal was 40% in 2003, 25% in
2004 and 32% in 2005. There was some switch to wood or coal in 2005 because of
higher LPG prices in that year. In 2003, over 40% of very high income households used
backup generators, and 92% used gas, mostly for cooking and heating.

The proportion of companies using power generators was 69% in 2003, 87% in 2004 and
75% in 2005. The proportion using gas was 20% in 2003, 30% in 2004 and 33% in 2005.
The proportion of institutions using power generators was 42% in 2003, 36% in 2004 and
37% in 2005. The proportion using gas was 34% in 2003, 21% in 2004 and 39% in 2005.

The proportion of households without meters was 24.4% in 2003, mostly from Shkoder,
3.7% in 2004 and 8.2% in 2005. The proportion of companies without meters was 6% in
2003, 1% in 2004 and 6% in 2005. Only one institution was without a meter in 2003,
none in 2004, but seven in 2005, of which five were in Shkoder.

The proportion of households having 13­24 daily hours of electricity supply in winter
rose from 35% in 2003 to 60% in 2004 and 74% in 2005. The corresponding numbers
for summer were 57%, 82% and 89% respectively. The proportion for villages for both
winter and summer varied from 17% in 2003 to 9% in 2004 and 71% in 2005.

The proportion of companies reporting duration of supply of 13-24 hours in winter was
61% in 2003, 66% in 2004 and 65% in 2005. The corresponding figures for summer
were 87%, 68% and 81%. The proportion of institutions reporting duration of supply of



                                             27

13-24 hours in winters was 62% in 2003, 69% in 2004 and 62% in 2005. The
corresponding numbers for summer was 62%, 69% and 89%. Thus, the proportion of
consumers with supply over 13 hours per day increased considerably for households,
with villages especially in villages, but there was less improvement for companies and
institutions. Businesses and institutions do not seem to have been favored relative to
households, and after 2004 city households in city centers and suburbs were not favored
relative to villages.

Sixty-five percent of households classified quality of service as below acceptable (bad or
very bad), in 2003, 42% in 2004 and 59% in 2005. The corresponding figures for
companies were 66%, 37% and 66% respectively. The figures for institutions were 66%,
34% and 35% respectively. While all three groups reported a big improvement in 2004,
only institutions reported the improvement as being sustained through 2005.

Disputes between customers and KESH were classified as concerning penalties for
delayed payments, inaccurate invoices and inaccurate contracts. Forty-six percent of
household had no disputes in 2003, 45% in 2004 and 45% in 2005. In 2005, 51.5% of
households thought that their invoices did not reflect consumption accurately. The
average number of penalties for late payment was 1.2 in 2003, 1.1 in 2004 and 1.0 in
2005. Fifty percent said their disputes were not solved at all in 2003, 44% in 2004 and
45% in 2005.

The focus group discussions provided partial explanations for some of the results
obtained from the questionnaire surveys. For example, illegal connections by others were
cited as an issue with respect to inaccurate invoices and equipment defects. Consumers
complained also about lack of KESH accountability in reimbursing customers for
damages due to voltage fluctuations of defects in electric installations. They listed
voltage fluctuations as the second most serious problem after power cuts. Participants in
the focus groups complained that KESH did not give advance notice of power cuts.




                                              28

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)




                                  29

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrower prepared with the assistance of the implementation consultant an ICR
describing in detail: (i) the implementation arrangements for the project; (ii) the
execution of works including procurement, construction, and performance of contractors
and sub-contractors; (iii) as-built drawing and diagrams, and (iv) conclusions and
recommendations of technical nature regarding sequencing, supervision, and coordination
of works6. Below this report is summarized and additional comments received by KESH
and the government are also presented.

Project Objective

The project has been very successful in achieving the objective of the country's sectoral
strategy to replace old and obsolete middle-voltage electricity network (35 kV and 10
kV) with a modern 20 kV international standards network, in the areas of project
implementation (Durres, Elbasan, and Kucova). The selection of locations as well as
timing for investments was correct, because despite the strong demographic movement
towards the project area observed over the last three to four years, the new distribution
network in those areas can cope well with the sharply increased demand. However, the
project benefits in areas where physical investments occurred are sensitive to the actual
management of KESH distribution. Where the management is weak, there is a risk that
actual savings and overall loss reduction may not be observed, even though the technical
losses have been significantly reduced. There is a need to continue focusing on the
commercial part of the distribution to fully realize the benefits of project investments.

It should also be noted that national performance targets cannot be directly tied to
specific investments made under the project. The size of the physical infrastructure
investments of the project, in terms of number of consumers and physical network, is
relatively small compared to the country level and therefore impacts in improvement of
technical losses cannot be reflected significantly on overall national targets. This in turn,
makes it difficult to directly link the impact of the investment component of the project
with the performance targets at the country level. KESH believes that its performance in
managing the physical investments has been fully successful.

Implementation and Capacity Building Experience

In contrast with projects funded by other donors previously (where material and supplies
were only covered by donors and works were the responsibility of KESH), this project
combined supply and installation of investments in single supply and installation
contracts. As a result, internationally recognized contractors were employed and the
projects integrated well both the engineering and construction aspects of the project. This
has been a positive experience for KESH as a procurement and contractual procedure.


6 Albanian Power Sector Corporation KESH Sh.a., PSRRP IDA 02-03, Implementation Completion Report,
January 25 2007




                                                30

Supervision and control of project investments has been overall more effective than
previous projects because of this contractual arrangement.

However, the unbundling of KESH into distribution, transmission, and generation, at the
same time as project implementation has sometimes created difficulties with project
execution, because investments needed to be coordinated across distribution and
transmission while during the time of unbundling there has been some confusion
regarding responsibilities for contracts. Coordination between distribution and
transmission must be clarified, especially in view of the upcoming privatization of
KESH's distribution.

KESH appreciated the flexibility of the World Bank in monitoring the project, so that
exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in higher amounts of USD being available for
equivalent SDR, could be used in accordance with KESH's needs.

Technical assistance for institutional capacity building and sector reform has been very
useful and unique through the World Bank's involvement with KESH. The component
of preparing a financial valuation of KESH's assets has been very useful, especially
because of the methodology focusing on replacement cost value. Estimated values and a
system of financial registration of physical assets were very important for the preparation
of the unbundling of the company. Because of this component of the project there is a
good basis on which the governments further efforts to proceed with sector reforms can
be implemented.

In general the Government and KESH agree with the ICR draft prepared by the World
Bank, which also reflects earlier comments and discussions with the Bank's team.
However, KESH and the Government would like to note that changes in the tariff
structure from blocks to a flat rate has been the responsibility of ERE. The Government
and KESH also believe that tariffs for big consumers are currently too low. In fact, both
the Ministry of Economy and KESH opposed the decision of ERE at the time.




                                             31

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                    32

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

KESH Albanian Power Corporation, PSRRP-IDA 02-03, Project for Durres, Elbasan and
Kucova Region, Implementation Completion Report. 25 January 2007.




                                      33

