Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3671-ALB
Project Agreement
(Power Sector Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ALBANIAN POWER CORPORATION
Dated June 26, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3671-ALB
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 2002, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and ALBANIAN POWER CORPORATION (KESH).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Albania (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-four million Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 24,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Page  2
Agreement, but only on conditions that KESH agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
KESH, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be 
made available to KESH on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS KESH, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) KESH declares its commitment to the objective of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Association and KESH shall otherwise agree, KESH shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the PIP and the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) KESH shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, KESH shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
Page  3
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Association and KESH, a plan for the future operation of 
the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
KESH on said plan.
Section 2.04. KESH shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, KESH shall not take or concur in 
any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) KESH shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views with the 
Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
KESH shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the Credit, or the performance by KESH of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of KESH
Section 3.01. KESH shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance 
with sound administrative, engineering, financial and environmental practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate 
numbers.
Section 3.02. KESH shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and technical 
practices.
Section 3.03. KESH shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other 
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as 
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  KESH shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations 
Page  4
and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
KESH shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, for 
such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the KESH’s progress reporting obligations set 
out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, KESH shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a Financial Monitoring Report in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
which:
(i)
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Credit, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of such funds;
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned Project implementation; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar 
quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
Page  5
each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, KESH shall not incur 
any debt, unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of KESH, shows that its 
estimated net revenues for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at 
least 1.5 times its estimated debt service requirements in such year on all of its debt including the 
debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness maturing by its terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the 
date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into.
(iii)
The term “net revenues” means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations and 
net non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, other 
non-cash operating charges and interest and other charges on 
debt.
(iv)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to operations; 
and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred 
in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payment if any) of, and interest and 
other charges on, debt.
(vi)
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by KESH not 
earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt in question, 
Page  6
which both the Association and KESH accept as reasonable and as to 
which the Association has notified KESH of its acceptability, provided 
that no event has occurred since such notification which has, or may 
reasonably be expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect on 
the financial condition or future operating results of KESH.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value, 
in terms 
of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another 
currency, such valuation 
shall be made on the basis of the prevailing 
lawful rate of exchange at which such 
other currency is, at the time of such 
valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, 
in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of 
exchange 
acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, KESH shall produce:
(i)
for the fiscal year ending on December 31, 2003, funds from internal 
sources equivalent to not less than thirty-five percent (35%) of the 
annual average of its capital expenditures incurred or expected to be 
incurred, for the current, the previous fiscal year and subsequent fiscal 
year; and
(ii)
for each fiscal year after the fiscal year ending on December 31, 2004, 
funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than forty percent 
(40%) of the annual average of its capital expenditures incurred or 
expected to be incurred, for the current, the previous fiscal year and 
subsequent fiscal year.
(b)
For the purpose of this Section, the term “capital expenditures” means all 
expenditures incurred on account of fixed assets, including interest charged to construction, 
related to operations.
(c)
Before October 15 in each of their fiscal years, commencing in the calendar year 
2002, KESH shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by KESH and satisfactory to the 
Association, review whether they would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in 
respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association the 
results of each such review upon its completion.
(d)
If any such review shows that KESH would not meet the requirements set forth 
in paragraph (a) for the KESH fiscal year covered by such review, KESH shall promptly take all 
necessary measures (including, without limitation, proposing adjustments of the structure or 
levels of its prices) in order to meet such requirements.
(e)
For the purpose of this Section:
(i)
The term “funds from internal sources” means the difference between:
Page  7
(A)
the sum of revenue from all sources related to operations, 
consumer deposits and consumer contributions in aid of 
construction, net non-operating income and any reduction in 
working capital other than cash; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes (excluding provision for depreciation and other 
non-cash operating charges), debt service requirements, all cash 
dividends and other cash distributions of surplus, increase in 
working capital other than cash and other cash outflows other 
than capital expenditures.
(ii)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between:
(A)
Revenues from all sources other than those related to operations; 
and
(B)
Expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
Section 4.05. KESH shall review, by October 15 of each year commencing in year 2002, 
its program of proposed capital expenditures for the following five years, and finalize said 
program, acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of KESH 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms 
before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly 
Page  8
notify KESH of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to 
be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.  
Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. telegram, cable, telex 
or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s 
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.   The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For KESH
Albanian Power Corporation
Blloku Vasil Shanto
Tirana, Albania
Facsimile:
355 42 34501
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of KESH, or by KESH on behalf of the 
Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by the General 
Director of KESH or such other person or persons as the General Director of KESH shall 
designate in writing, and KESH shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Page  9
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By: /s/ Christiaan J. Poortman 
Authorized Representative
ALBANIAN POWER CORPORATION
By: /s/ Z. Fatos Tarifa 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I
. Procurement of Goods
Part A
: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
Page  10
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C
: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to the each contract under the Part B hereof, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
. Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part 
A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, 
Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
Page  11
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list 
of consultants for services for consumer satisfaction surveys, estimated to cost less than $75,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
: Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 
1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
KESH shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about February 28, 2004, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by March 31, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
Page  12
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Association’s views on the matter.
2.
KESH shall take or cause to be taken, all measures necessary for the carrying out of the 
EMPs in a timely manner.
3.
KESH shall meet the quarterly targets of the Two-Year Action Plan with respect to 
reduction in power transmission and distribution losses and improvement in bill collection.
4.
KESH shall: (a) provide an action plan, by December 31, 2002, to control operating 
costs, acceptable to the Association; and (b) implement such an action plan in accordance with 
the schedule agreed with the Association.
5.
KESH shall employ, by October 31, 2002, an international utility to provide it with 
management assistance until June 30, 2004, under arrangements acceptable to the Association.
6.
KESH shall, by December 31, 2002, submit to the Association an acceptable plan to: (a) 
establish a treasury system; (b) establish the computerized billing system in all its distribution 
zones; and (c) establish budgetary policies and procedures acceptable to the Association. 
7.
KESH shall: (a) by December 31, 2002, open a Project Account and deposit the 
counterpart contribution for the succeeding six months of the Project implementation; and (b)  
ensure, every three months thereafter, that there are sufficient funds in the Project Account to 
cover the expected expenditure over the succeeding six months.
8.
KESH shall, by March 31, 2003, complete implementation of the computerized financial 
management system.
