                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 27775

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (SCL-44410 PPFB-P3340)

                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 210 MILLION

                                         TO THE

                                GOVERNMENT OF INDIA

                                          FOR


         ANDHRA PRADESH POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT (APL I)




                                     February 20, 2004




Energy and Infrastructure Unit
South Asia Region

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective : February 2004)

                                  Currency Unit = Indian Rupee (Rs.)
                                     Rs. 100.00 = US$ 2.18
                                       US$ 1.00 = Rs.45.80

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                      April 1   March 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APERC     Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission
APERL     Andhra Pradesh Economic Reform Loan
APGENCO   Generation Corporation of Andhra Pradesh Ltd.
APL       Adaptable Program Lending
APSEB     Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board
APTRANSCO Transmission Corporation of Andhra Pradesh Ltd.
ARR       Annual Revenue Requirement
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
CPDCL     Central Power Distribution Compnay Ltd.
CRISIL    Crisil Advisory Services
DEA       Department of Economic Affairs
DFID      Department for International Development
Discoms   Distribution Companies
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
EPDCL     Eastern Power Distribution Compnay Ltd.
FRR       Financial Rate of Return
FY        Fiscal Year (Indian)
GOAP      Government of Andhra Pradesh
GOI       Government of India
GSDP      Gross State Domestic Product
GWh       Gigawatt hour
HT        High Tension
KV        Kilo volt
kWh       Kilowatt hour
LT        Low tension
MOU       Memorandum of Understanding
MTFF      Medium Term Fiscal Framework
MU        Million Unit (Unit=1kWh)
NPDCL     Northern Power Distribution Compnay Ltd.
PMU       Project Management Unit
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
SPDCL     Southern Power Distribution Compnay Ltd.
T&D       Transmission & Distribution


                                Vice President:    Praful C. Patel
                              Country Director     Michael F. Carter
                                Sector Director    John A. Roome
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Bhavna Bhatia

                                            INDIA
              AP POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT (APL I)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                                Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              14
6. Sustainability                                                                  15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   17
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 21
9. Partner Comments                                                                24
10. Additional Information                                                         25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               36
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               40
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  41
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              42
Annex 8. Key Achievements of APERC                                                 43
Annex 9. Financial Performance of the Power Sector                                 46
Annex 10. Distribution Companies - Efficiency Improvement Initiatives              49
Annex 11. Technical Assistance Support provided to Andhra Pradesh Power Sector     51
Annex 12. Transition Arrangements to Regular Operation                             52
Annex 13. Andhra Pradesh's Assessment of the Implementation of APL1                53

Project ID: P049537                                                  Project Name: AP POWER APL I
Team Leader: Bhavna Bhatia                                           TL Unit: SASEI
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: February 20, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: AP POWER APL I                                           L/C/TF Number: SCL-44410; PPFB-P3340
   Country/Department: INDIA                                                               Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Power (100%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);
                            Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Regulation
                            and competition policy (P); Legal institutions for a market economy
                            (P); State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/30/1998                                     Effective: 06/04/1999                03/22/1999
     Appraisal: 10/05/1998                                         MTR:
      Approval: 02/18/1999                                      Closing: 08/31/2003                 08/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of India/Government of Andhra Pradesh; Government of
                                           India/Transmission Corporation of Andhra Pradesh (APTRANSCO) and power
                                           distribution companies
                      Other Partners:      Department for International Development (DfID); Canadian International
                                           Development Agency (CIDA)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Meiko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Michael F. Carter                              Edwin R. Lim
Sector Director:                John A. Roome                                  Alastair J. McKechnie
Team Leader at ICR:             Bhavna Bhatia                                  Mohinder P. Gulati
ICR Primary Author:             Bhavna Bhatia


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: HS                               S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

The Project was rated "at risk" during the period January-July 2003 on account of unsatisfactory
performance in the areas of financial management, procurement and non-compliance with the financial
covenants. The financial management rating was upgraded after submission of entity audit reports for
FY2002 by all the six power utilities. There were some delays in the procurement decisions by the
executing agency during this period. A close monitoring by the project team facilitated satisfactory
resolution and the procurement rating was accordingly upgraded. The companies, at the loan closure, were
in partial compliance of the financial covenants.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Background
3.1.1    Andhra Pradesh is one of India's leading reforming states which has, since 1999 implemented
several measures towards fiscal, governance and sectoral reforms. Power sector reforms are at the
center-stage of the Government of Andhra Pradesh's (GOAP) overall reform program, and are a key
complement to the fiscal reform program because of the sector's large demand on the budget resources.
Power sector reforms are critical to remove infrastructure constraints for accelerating economic growth as
well as to bring a shift in the public expenditure from power sector to social sectors and other priority areas
for public expenditure. By the late nineties the state was facing both energy and peak shortages and the
quality of power supply had deteriorated; the power utility's financial losses had grown to Rs 39 billion and
new investments were not financible. The power subsidies had increased to 1.6 percent of the Gross State
Domestic Product (GSDP) while on the other hand the combined public expenditure on health and
education had declined from 4.7 percent of GSDP in FY1987 to 3.6 percent of GSDP in FY1998. In the
absence of power sector reforms the need for investment support and subsidies from the government's
budget would continue to grow and crowd out social sector investments.

3.1.2    A comprehensive program of power sector reforms was initiated by the GOAP in 1999. The
GOAP requested the Bank for a multi-phased adaptable program lending with an indicative financing of
US $ 1 billion over a period of eight to ten years to support the implementation of reforms. This project ("
the Project" or "APL1") is the first in a series of the Bank's Adaptable Program Lending operations aimed
at providing programmatic support ("the Program") to Andhra Pradesh for reforming the power sector.

3.1.3    The development objectives of the Program are (i) to ensure that by FY2007 the energy
requirements of the state are met and that consumers are provided with reliable, high-quality and cost
effective electricity supply, by creditworthy and commercially operated utilities functioning in a competitive
and appropriately regulated power market, with significant private ownership and participation; and (ii) to
bring about a permanent shift in the public expenditure in the power sector from a major drain on the
budget to a contributor of funds for social sectors and other priority areas for public investment. The
program was designed to be implemented in a phased manner : Phase I (1999-2001) establishment of legal,
regulatory and institutional framework, and removal of critical bottlenecks of the power system; Phase II
(2001-2003) fully functional regulatory commission and corporate entities, privatization of a part of the
distribution business, partial restoration of the sector's creditworthiness and improvement in system
efficiency; Phase III (2003-2005) completion of distribution privatization, consolidation of the functioning
and financial performance of new power utilities; and Phase IV (2005-07) deepening of reforms to increase
competition and private participation, attainment of high customer satisfaction through reduction of power
deficit, and improvement in quality and efficiency of electricity services. Implementation of Phase I and
part of the Phase II (fully functional regulatory commission and corporate entitiess) has been completed;



                                                       - 2 -

several initiatives for improving operational efficiency and customer service are underway; and the
government now plans to deepen the reforms through introduction of competition.

3.1.4    An important component of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) in India has been to
focus on states that demonstrate a commitment to reforms, particularly in financial management, power
sector administration and governance. Andhra Pradesh is one of the focus states for the Bank's lending in
India. The Bank is supporting Andhra Pradesh's program of fiscal and governance reforms through the
structural adjustment support under the Andhra Pradesh Economic Reform Loan , and has also financed
                                                                                      1


investment projects in the areas of health, child nutrition, forestry irrigation and rural roads.

Project Objectives
3.1.5    The development objectives of the first Project (APL1) were (i) to initiate the reform process by
establishing the new legal, regulatory, institutional framework and industry structure (including
establishment of an independent Regulatory Commission, creation of the new power companies and
initiation of preparatory work for privatization of the distribution business) and (ii) to remove some of the
critical bottlenecks of the power system. The project objectives were consistent with the Government's
priorities and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. The power sector reforms were aimed to reduce
pressures on the state's public finances and remove sectoral constraints to the state's economic growth,
thereby facilitating sustainable poverty reduction.

3.1.6    The Project design was relevant for achieving the project objectives. A two-pronged approach of
parallel implementation of policy reforms and investments to remove critical bottlenecks in the power
system was an appropriate design. A High Level Committee set up by the GOAP under the chairmanship
of Mr. Hiten Bhaya submitted its report on the medium term reform program in April 1995. The
committee recommended unbundling of vertically integrated State Electricity Board, the establishment of an
regulatory independent agency, and enactment of Electricity Reforms Act in the state to provide legal basis
for the implementation of reforms. The design supported the GOAP's plan for reforms laid out in its
detailed "Power Sector Policy Statement" (October 1998) and thus had the required ownership.

3.1.7    The project was built upon the four decade long experience of operations and management of the
power sector under the public ownership, while specifically recognizing that (i) the government's multiple,
but often conflicting roles as a policy maker, regulator and the owner of power utilities constrained the
commercialization of the sector, (ii) government's interference in the operations, management and important
decision making (investment, tariffs and personnel issues) of the state owned vertically integrated power
utility had led to substantial deterioration in its operational efficiency and financial viability, and (iii) the
prevailing system did not promote accountability or provide incentives to the managers and staff for
improving performance. The project design also incorporated the limited experience available at that time
from the two Indian states where the reforms had been initiated.

3.1.8    The project objectives were important but complex and demanding for the government and the
implementing agency. The pervasive politicization of the power sector, opposition to reforms from strong
and powerful groups with entrenched vested interests in the business as usual and the likely resistance from
the employees posed significant risk to the project outcome. Also, the reform experience in Orissa and
Haryana had generated considerable opposition and had not yet shown any tangible results. In the
environment of unbundling and establishment of the new companies, which could create uncertainty and
unrest among the employees, implementation of investment program was quite demanding for the executing
agency. The expected outcome of the financial turnaround of the sector in FY2004 and the expectations of
the pace of tariff rationalization and reduction in subsidy were ambitious.



                                                        - 3 -

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised during the life of the project.

3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1. The project had following four main components:
(i)        Transmission system augmentation. This component provided support for capacity
augmentation of overloaded transmission lines and sub-stations, construction of new sub-stations and
transmission lines to meet the load growth, establishment of switching sub-stations to provide operational
flexibility to the system and installation of capacitors to improve voltage and reduce system losses.
(ii)      Sub-transmission and distribution system strengthening. The support was envisaged for (i)
installation of three phase distribution transformers to provide relief where the transformer overloading was
more than 150 percent (both in urban and rural areas), and single phase distribution transformers to
improve voltages at the tail end of the distribution lines, (ii) augmentation of power transformation capacity
at the existing 33/11 kV sub-stations to reduce overloading, improve supply reliability and meet load
growth, (iii) construction of new 33 kV lines, and (iv) installation of breakers and battery system at the
existing 33/11 kV substations for better transformer protection and feeder control.
(iii)     Metering system improvement. This component included support for installation of better quality
and high accuracy consumer meters for improving billing accuracy, feeder meters for energy accounting,
boundary meters for measurement of energy exchange between the unbundled power companies, and
computer systems to process data at the distribution system level.
(iv)       Technical assistance for reform program management, institutional development of the
Regulatory Commission, corporatization, commercialization, institutional development of the new power
utilities, investment planning and other technical issues.

3.3.2     In addition, US $ 11 million were retained as unallocated amount to be utilized among the above
mentioned four project components. At appraisal investment schemes costing US$ 125 million were
finalized (referred as APL1 main schemes) and the remaining schemes were finalized during the project
implementation (referred as APL1 supplemental schemes). The bi-lateral donors DFID and CIDA through
provision of grant support for technical assistance have extensively supported the project.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
          QAG rated the project highly satisfactory for quality at entry. The ICR rating for the quality at
entry is in agreement with the QAG's rating. QAG assessment stated, "well articulated development
objectives appear ambitious but not unreasonable in the light of developments in Andhra Pradesh so
far". Further "initial actions taken suggest strong Borrower's commitment to reforming its power
sector". QAG endorsed APL to be an appropriate instrument for supporting comprehensive reform
program and well suited for the Bank's dealing with reform program risks. For the appropriateness and
realism of project/conditionality the QAG stated that "sequencing of conditions, specially on subsequent
APLs, appear well suited, leaving the Bank room for necessary flexibility while providing a clear
framework". Readiness for implementation was rated as "highly satisfactory" by the QAG.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1     The Project has been successful in meeting its development objectives to a large extent. The
outcome and impact resulting from the project implementation have been significant. The financial



                                                      - 4 -

performance of the power sector is improving but continues to remain highly vulnerable. This section
presents the assessment of the outcomes against the objectives set for the APL1 project.

Objective 1: Establishment of the new legal, regulatory, and institutional framework and preparation
for distribution privatization.
4.1.2     Functional unbundling of APSEB and corporatization. Andhra Pradesh was the third state in
India to enact the state Power Sector Reform Legislation (February 1999) that sets the legal foundation for
reforms, regulation, industry and market structure. The vertically integrated power utility has been
restructured into six corporatized entities ­ a power generation company (APGENCO), a transmission and
bulk supply company (APTRANSCO) and four distribution companies (Discoms) for retail power supply.
The assets and liabilities of the SEB were apportioned to the six new companies and the final transfer of
employees completed in March 2001 . Andhra Pradesh has a total generation capacity of 10,600 MWs
                                       2


(December 2003) comprising state-owned generation (68 percent), central generating stations (20 percent)
and IPPs (12 percent). The share of hydro, though declining, accounts for about one third of the total
available capacity. The APTRANSCO is responsible for transmission, trading and system operations. It
purchases power from all the generators for bulk sale to the Discoms who in turn supply power to the
consumers in their respective geographical area designated under the license issued by the Regulator.
Discoms purchase power solely from the APTRANSCO (single buyer model) based on a bulk supply
agreement. Over the years, several industries in the state have set up self-generation (captive) plants which
can sell their surplus power to APTRANSCO. The unbundling was implemented as per the planned
schedule under the Project. The Board of Directors of the companies and some senior managers with skills
and experience appropriate for new business and regulatory environment have been appointed through a
competitive selection process. Unbundling has spurred the utilities to focus on their specific functions and
initial signs of commercial tension and performance improvements are evident.

4.1.3     Power Sector Regulation. Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) set up in
April 1999 is now well established with over 50 staff. The GOAP has ensured timely appointment of the
Commission members following a transparent process laid out in the Reform Act, provided adequate
budget to the Commission which is charged to the consolidated fund of the state, and supported the
Commission's functional independence. The APERC has set a good track record of operating through
transparent regulatory processes, with the involvement of stakeholders and public, and has demonstrated its
ability to take independent decisions. It has issued important regulatory orders (including licenses, tariffs,
consumer performance standards, technical codes, guidelines for planning etc.) and has set precedent in
defining several regulatory approaches in the country. In the important area of tariff reforms a transparent
process with a distinct role of regulator and the government has been established where (i) the regulator
establishes full-cost tariffs for each consumer category that is necessary for the utility to cover its prudent
costs and earn a return on capital (ii) the regulator determines the extent of cross subsidy (iii) the
government makes an upfront explicit subsidy commitment for specific consumer categories and (iv) finally
based on the subsidy commitment the regulator announces the tariffs. The APERC has maintained that in
the absence of timely payment of subsidy the full cost tariffs would be charged to ensure financial viability
of the utilities. Some tariff related orders of the Commission have been appealed in the courts, most of
which have been dispensed in favor of the Commission instilling its role in tariff setting. In an independent
review of the power sector carried out by a credit rating agency (CRISIL) in 2003, the APERC ranked first
among all the states for its performance and achievements (refer Annex 8 for details on APERC).

4.1.4     Governance Reforms in the Power Sector. The utilities have implemented impressive measures to
control electricity theft and improve operational efficiency. Andhra Pradesh is the first state to enact
anti-theft legislation (in July 2000) which, stipulates penalties that includes mandatory imprisonment for



                                                      - 5 -

electricity theft. There has been a quantum jump in the registration of theft cases ­ 150,000 cases during
FY2001-03 as against 9200 cases during the period FY1989-2000. About 4100 consumers and 50
employees have been arrested. In a statewide program launched in FY2001 the utilities regularized about 2
million residential and 200,000 agriculture connections of which about 60 percent were illegal connections.
The utilities have also completed 100 percent census of agricultural pumpsets in the state.

4.1.5    Preparation for distribution privatization. Distribution privatization has been delayed from the
schedule planned under the reform program (>30 percent by FY2002) due to lack of adequate preparation,
declining international investor interest and very limited domestic investor interests in the power
distribution. Another consideration for the delay has been to gain from the experience of privatization in
Orissa and Delhi. The international investment bankers have advised a minimum set of preconditions that
should be met before launching the transaction, to minimize the high risks perceived by the potential private
investors. Learning from the privatization experience in Orissa (i) efforts are underway to improve the
availability and reliability of information, (ii) long term tariff principles have been finalized to mitigate the
regulatory risks, and (iii) the state government has set a track record of providing full subsidy during the
transition and providing the governance/law and order support for controlling theft and improving
collections. However, an important issue that remains to be addressed is mitigating risk of subsidized
power supply to the agriculture consumers (estimated to be about 40 percent of total electricity sales). As
per the revised schedule the GOAP plans to finalize its privatization strategy by March 2005 and address
the remaining measures required to get the transaction ready. It has also signed a Memorandum of
Understanding with the Government of India to continue reforms, specifically to reduce the cost-revenue
gap, achieve 100 percent consumer metering and privatize distribution. The government will need to
flexibly adapt its privatization strategy in the context of new market and industry structure envisaged under
the Electricity Act 2003, and in view of the investor interest prevailing at the time of transaction launch.

Objective 2: Removal of critical bottlenecks in the power system
4.1.6    Implementation of reforms by the GOAP and the Bank's support has catalyzed Andhra Pradesh to
attract investment and technical assistance support from several financial institutions, bilateral donors and
private investors. During FY2000-03 about Rs 65 billion has been invested in Andhra Pradesh's power
sector (public companies) of which two-third has been in the transmission and distribution (T&D) system.
New generation capacity of about 3000 MWs has been added during this period improving the availability
of power supply. Electricity access rate has increased from 50 percent in FY1999 to 67 percent in FY2003
(urban 90 percent and rural 60 percent).

4.1.7    Successful implementation of the APL1 project (accounting for one third of total investment in
T&D during FY 2000-03) has yielded several positive outcomes with regard to improvements in the
availability, reliability and quality of power supply. In FY2003 the transmission system handled 16
percent (about 6000 Million kWh) more energy compared to FY1999. Monitoring at select areas in the
distribution system where investment support has been provided under the APL1 project reveals
improvements in the voltages, reduction in outages and reduction in distribution transformer failures.
Estimated T&D losses have reduced from 38 percent in FY1999 to 26 percent in FY2003, which is indeed
a commendable achievement compared to other power utilities in the country, including those managed by
the private sector (refer section 4.2 and Annex 1 for details on the outcomes).

4.1.8    Good efforts have been made to improve the quality of customer service which was highlighted as
a main concern by the customers (report on "Socio-economic impact assessment of power sector reforms"
2001). The utilities in response to this feedback have prioritized efforts to pro-actively address these
concerns, and some specific measures include (i) introduction of spot billing system which facilitates meter
reading in the presence of the customers and thereby minimizes billing complaints, (ii) establishment of


                                                        - 6 -

special cells in all operation circles for new connection release and complaint redressal and (iii)
establishment of computerized customer care centers which are one-stop windows for complaint handling,
bill payment and any follow up on supply related issues. These initiatives have received encouraging
feedback from the consumers and the utilities plan to extend these measures in other towns throughout the
state. The utilities have adopted the performance standards for customer service issued by the APERC.

Financial performance outcome and fiscal impact of the power sector
4.1.9    The power sector's financial performance has improved since the initiation of the reforms, however
it is short of the expectations set out in the business plans prepared by the GOAP. As a part of the
implementation of the reform program the GOAP had prepared a business plan in January 1999, and under
the APL1 project committed to support sector's financial restructuring, improve cost recovery, reduce the
financial losses and provide subsidy support to the utilities. The business plan was updated in January
2002 and integrated in the GOAP's medium term fiscal framework (MTFF), and an action plan to reduce
power sector losses and government's subsidy support to the sector was agreed under the Bank's first
Structural Adjustment Loan in January 2002.

4.1.10 During FY2000-02 the sector incurred an annual loss of about Rs 30 billion causing enormous
burden on the state's finances (nearly 2 percent of GSDP). The higher than projected financial losses in
FY2000 and FY2001 were mainly due to adverse sales mix resulting from the decline in the sales to the
subsidizing HT-industrial consumers and increased sales to the subsidized agriculture consumers . The   3


financial performance in FY2002 was particularly poor and losses exceeded the expectations reflected in
the government's MTFF by 28 percent. Severe country-wide drought during this year resulting in low
hydro-power generation and increased demand for irrigation had an adverse impact on the financial
                                                                     4


performance of the utilities (the impact of hydro failure is estimated to be about Rs 5 billion). In FY2003,
the financial performance has improved significantly and the deficit reduced to Rs 19.1 billion (provisional
estimates) despite a difficult drought (27 percent lower than the previous year and 5 percent higher than
Rs 17.9 billion projected under the MTFF) (refer Annex 9 for details). The financial performance of the
sector, however, continues to remain fragile.

                                                 Table 1: Power Sector Finances (Net Profit / (-) Loss)
                                          1998-99 1999-00 2000-01 2001-02 2002-03
                                                                              (P)
 Actual (Rs. billion)                      -24.22   -31.91  -30.82   -29.28 -19.11
 (% of GSDP)                               (-2.11)  (-2.55) (-2.22) (-1.95) (-1.16)
 APL1 targets (Rs billion)                 -10.77   -16.57  -18.39
 APERL 1 targets (Rs billion)                                        -24.38 -17.92
(% of GSDP)                                                         (-1.62) (-1.09)
 Note: (P): Provisional. Source : Business Plan, September 2004


4.1.11 There are several areas where Andhra Pradesh's power sector has performed well with a positive
impact on its finances, supported by the efforts of the government, regulator, and utilities. These include
(i) reduction in cross­subsidy among consumer categories, introduction of multi-year tariff incentive
scheme and improvement of quality of supply for HT-industrial consumers; these measures have resulted in
reversal of the five year trend of declining sales to HT-industries to 26 percent growth in sales in FY2003;
(ii) reduction in T&D losses from 38 percent in FY1999 to 26 percent in FY2003 through increased
investments for augmentation and rehabilitation of the T&D network, control of theft, and better consumer
metering (the progress has marginally exceeded 10.5 percentage point loss reduction target set under the
business plan in 1999); (iii) further improvements in the collection efficiency from 92 percent in FY2000 to
98 percent in FY2003; and (iv) reduction in the costs through financial restructuring and efficient power



                                                            - 7 -

procurement. The financial restructuring involved a cleanup of APSEB's balance sheet and restructuring of
outstanding liabilities to bring down cashflow in the initial years while postponing the servicing of these
liabilities to the later years. The GOAP wrote off its Rs 9 billion debt to APSEB against the accumulated
losses of APSEB; Rs 28 billion dues for coal and power purchases were converted into medium to long
term liabilities by issue of bonds (7 -10 years with 5-8 years moratorium); and Rs 8.3 billion outstanding
dues to a financial institution were rescheduled with a repayment relief in the first two years. The impact
of reduction in distribution losses and improvements in metering and collection efficiency is evident from
the fact that during the period FY2000-03 while the power purchased by the Discoms increased by an
average annual compounded growth rate of 2.3 percent, the sales increased at a higher rate of about 7
percent and the revenue by 16 percent.

4.1.12 On the other hand inadequate progress in tariff reforms has had an adverse impact on the sector's
financial performance and resultant fiscal implications. After the APERC's first tariff order (in July 2000)
increasing average tariffs by 15 percent, agriculture by 50 percent and residential by 69-300 percent
(across various consumption blocks), almost no further tariff increases have been affected. While the
APERC has made sustained progress in reducing cross subsidies the progress on improving cost recovery
                                                                    5


through tariffs for the subsidized consumer categories has been very slow primarily due to socio-political
considerations. Power sector subsidies are unsustainable and have significant opportunity cost - in FY2002
the subsidy support to the power sector (Rs.28.3 billion) was higher than the spending in some social
sectors (Rs.21.2 billion for primary education and Rs.7.7 billion for primary health).

4.1.13 Like other states in India, Andhra Pradesh has adopted a policy of providing subsidy for
agricultural production through low electricity tariff. Tariffs for agriculture consumers in Andhra Pradesh
are lowest among all the states in the country and have not been revised during the last three years .
                                                                                                     6


Agriculture consumers are estimated to account for 40 percent of the total utility sales, but contribute only
5 percent to the utility's revenue. With the progressive reduction in cross-subsidies, the fiscal impact of
power supply to agriculture is likely to grow if the present trend of growing sales to agriculture consumers
and mere 10 percent cost recovery continues. Metering of agriculture consumers is another area where
progress is lagging, in spite of the APERC's directives for full metering. In FY2003 the utilities agreed to
provide new electricity connections on metered basis and have submitted a plan to achieve full metering (by
FY2007) to the APERC for approval. The subsidies delivered under the present flat-rate tariff system are
regressive and benefit large farmers much more than the small and marginal farmers (Report on Power
Supply to Agriculture, World Bank, 2001). Externalities like overuse of water and uneconomic crop
choices are some of the negative outcomes of the tariff subsidy policy. Improving the service, enhancing
cost recovery, and agriculture consumer metering constitute key challenges in commercialization and
privatization of the distribution business. The GOAP has set up a Task Force on Power Supply to
Agriculture to assess and develop alternate mechanism to provide subsidy to the consumers.

4.1.14 Overall, an independent rating agency (CRISIL) in its all-India assessment of progress of power
sector reforms (2003) has rated Andhra Pradesh as a leader. The state has qualified to receive cash
incentive under the Accelerated Power Development and Reforms program (APDRP) of the GOI for
reducing its revenue-cost gap in FY2003.




                                                     - 8 -

                        Revenue deficit/surplus per kWh                                                       Consumer category-wise average tariffs



                                                                                                        5
      0 . 4 0


                                                                                                     4 . 5
      0 . 2 0


                                                                                                        4

      0 . 0 0

                 F Y 2 0 0 0    F Y 2 0 0 1    F Y 2 0 0 2    F Y 2 0 0 3    F Y 2 0 0 4
                                                                                                     3 . 5

     - 0 . 2 0

                                                                                                        3


     - 0 . 4 0
                                                                                                     2 . 5


     - 0 . 6 0
                                                                                                        2



     - 0 . 8 0
                                                                                                     1. 5



     - 1 . 0 0                                                                                           1




     - 1 . 2 0                                                                                       0 . 5




                                                                                                        0
     - 1 . 4 0
                                                                                                             FY2000     FY2001         FY2002        FY2003


                                 Projected                 Actual                                                       Residential         Agri.

                                                                                                                        HT-indy             Avg cost




               Performance of Power Companies (FY2003) (Provisional estimates)
              (Rs. Billion)                           GENCO               TRANSCO           CPDCL          EPDCL           NPDCL             SPDCL
 Revenue                                                  42.19                    86.47     34.75            14.56          11.70             17.72
 Operating expenditure                                    26.77                    78.76     39.82            16.24          15.35             22.52
 EBITDA                                                   15.42                      7.71    -5.07            -1.68           -3.65             -4.79
 Operating profit/(Loss)                                  -0.41                      2.62    -7.33            -2.25           -5.09             -5.92
 Cost recovery (%)                                                                           83%               87%            67%               74%
 Electricity purchased (MU)                                                                  17246            5883            7497              9561
 Electricity Sales (MUs)                                                                     13300            4895            5904              7531
 Residential (%)                                                                               20               30             17                 24
 Commercial (%)                                                                                 5                6               3                 5
 HT Industry (%)                                                                               21               20             13                 12
 Agriculture (%)                                                                               42               24             48                 38
 Others (%)                                                                                    12               20             19                 21
 Metered sales (%)                                                                           45%               63%            41%               49%
 Distribution loss (%)                                                                       23%               17%            21%               22%


Further implementation of power sector reform and Bank's support
4.1.15 The GOAP is committed to continue the implementation of the reform program. The next
structural and market reforms envisaged, as mandated in the national Electricity Act 2003, include
segregation of transmission wires and trading function by June 2004, introduction of open access and
move from the present single buyer industry structure to multi-buyer structure whereby allowing the
Discoms to purchase power from the generators. Move to the multi-buyer model is expected to bring in
efficiency gains from competitive and commercial procurement of power by the Discoms. On the regulatory
front, implementation of multi-year tariffs and preparation of strategy for introduction of open access and
increased competition in retail power supply will be important areas of focus.

4.1.16 As mentioned earlier in the report, to achieve sustained improvement in the financial performance
of the power utilities and reducing fiscal pressures caused by the sector ­ the ultimate objective of the
reform program - it is critical to address the issues of power supply to subsidized consumer categories. In
the next stage of reform implementation the GOAP and power utilities need to (i) progressively move the
tariffs of various consumer categories to the cost of supply (ii) complete metering of all consumers as per
the plan approved by the Regulatory Commission and (iii) design subsidy delivery mechanisms which



                                                                                           - 9 -

would facilitate targeting and enable the utilities to operate commercially. These measures are necessary
for privatization as well as commercialization of the distribution business.

4.1.17 Based on the GOAP's commitment to continue power sector reforms, the Bank remains willing to
continue to engage in the sector. The Bank has had extensive dialogue with the GoAP under the second
Structural Adjustment Loan (APERL 2) on deepening the reforms in the power sector. The progress in
implementing power sector reforms, including subsidy reforms for power supply to agriculture, will be an
integral part of the Bank's programmatic structural adjustment support to Andhra Pradesh. Further support
under the "APL program" would be provided based on the demonstrated sustained improvements in the
financial performance of the power sector. The Bank's support would be provided in accordance with the
"rules of engagement in the state power sector" finalized in consultation with the GOI and the states. The
support could be through a range of instruments including technical assistance, investment lending,
budgetary support (sector adjustment lending) and guarantees. Some areas where the Bank may consider
support include distribution privatization, improvement in and expansion of rural access, and initiatives to
introduce competition and open access to transmission and distribution wires.

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1   Overall outcome of the investment project is satisfactory. Prioritized investments in transmission
and distribution have resulted in improvements in the availability, reliability and quality of power supply.
This is substantiated by monitoring of key indicators including voltage levels, T&D losses, feeder outages
and transformer burnout rates. Improvements in billing and reduction in nontechnical losses have been
realized with the implementation of metering system improvement program. An independent study carried
out by the consultants at the project mid term reported improvements in voltages, reduction in pump
burnouts, and perceived increase in consumer satisfaction regarding power supply conditions.

(i)     Transmission system augmentation. Implementation of this sub-component is highly satisfactory
as almost all the schemes under the project have been successfully completed and put into operation. Under
the project 23 new 220 & 132 kV sub-stations have been commissioned and transformer capacity
augmented at 16 sub-stations adding about 1900 MVA transformation capacity. About 2300 kms of
220/132 kV transmission lines and 350 MVA capacitor banks have been installed. These investments have
resulted in evacuation of additional power, increase in voltage stability, reduction in transmission losses.
Maximum energy handled by the transmission system has increased from 143.7 GWh/day in FY1999 to
152.9 GWh/day in FY2003.


                           Voltage levels in 220 kV Feeders                                  Voltage levels in 132 kV Feeders

                                                                                                                                        42
                           14                                                                43
                                                        12
                           12
                                                                                             36
                           10  9
                                                                                             29
                           8
              Feeders                      6                                                                                        22
                           6                                      5             Feeders      22
                     of                                                                            16
                           4                         3                                 of                            14
                                                                                             15
                       No.                                                                                               9
                           2                   1                                         No.
                                   0                           0                              8
                           0                                                                              1
                              Less than 210-220 kV 220-230 kV Above 230                       1
                               210 kV                            kV                             Less than 120 kV   120-132 kV      132-140 kV


                                        Before APL1 After APL1                                               Before APL1   After APL1




                                                                       - 10 -

(ii)      Sub-transmission and distribution system strengthening. Overall 90 percent of the schemes
financed under this sub-component have been satisfactorily completed and the balance are expected to be
completed by July 2004. The completion of some schemes has been delayed due to delays in finalization of
the schemes by the Discoms. About 6000 new distribution transformers have been installed along with the
capacity augmentation at 188 numbers 33/11 kV substations. About 2000 MVA new capacity and 33 &
11 kV lines (1600 kms) have been added under APL1. Other measures taken up for rehabilitation of the
dilapidated distribution network includ replacement of 33 and 11 kV circuit breakers, re-conductoring with
large capacity conductors, separation of bunched 11 kV feeders and bifurcation of over loaded 11 kV
feeders. All these investments have contributed to reduction in distribution losses, improvement in power
supply quality in terms of better voltages and reduction of outages (refer Annex 1). The distribution
transformer failure has reduced from 35 percent in FY1999 to 19 percent in FY2003.

                                 Box 1: Extracts from ASCI Report
Improvement in LT Voltages: The improvement in LT voltages are generally in the range of 5 to 20
percent. The voltages are generally in the order of 400 to 445 volts. In some cases it is based on
records maintained by the distribution staff and in some cases the voltages were actually measured.
The inspecting engineers have also enquired the agricultural consumers particularly those who have
pumpsets at the tail end of LT lines, where these transformers are installed. The consumers have
informed that voltages have improved on installation of new transformers and they are able to run
pumpsets. Burning of motors has become much less frequent. There is a perceivable increase in
level of satisfaction among consumers.
Reduction in Distribution transformer failures: The loading on the existing transformers is reduced
and also the LT line lengths from each transformer and this has resulted in reduction in failure rate of
distribution transformers, particularly in the feeders/areas where the additional transformers are
installed. This reduction in transformer failure rate has resulted in savings of Rs. 126 million and Rs.
189 million for the years FY2001 and FY2002.
Improvement in reliability of supply:     It is acknowledged by the distribution staff and the
consumers that reliability of supply has improved on installation of additional transformers.
The inspection team has inspected 586 transformers and at each of these locations they have interacted
with 8 to 10 consumers to get their reaction on the quality of supply etc. The team has interacted with
over 5000 consumers. The level of consumer satisfaction is good.

Source: Review design criteria, quality assurance, certification of works and quantification of
benefits of APL1 project, by Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI), February 2002


(iii)     Metering System improvement. The Bank has supported a large program to provide good quality
consumer and energy audit meters. About 433,000 electronic consumer meters, 34,000 energy audit meters
for 11 kV feeders and for distribution transformers supplying power to predominantly agriculture
consumers have been financed under the project. Further, the utilities have procured a large number of
meters to regularize illegal consumers and provide better quality meters to the existing consumers. These
efforts have resulted in substantial increase in revenue and reduction of nontechnical losses in the
distribution system. Metered sales as a proportion of total power purchased by the Discoms has increased
from 41.4 percent to 47.6 percent during the same period.

(iv)      Technical Assistance. The GOAP, power utilities, and APERC have benefited extensively from
the technical assistance support provided by the DFID, CIDA and Bank. Several international and national
consultants/experts have assisted on strategic issues of regulation, distribution privatization, utility
management, commercialization, business planning, human resource development, power system planning
and operations (refer Annex 11). The grant support provided by the bi-lateral donors has been very timely
and has yielded good institutional development impact (refer section 4.5 below).




                                                              - 11 -

Based on the above assessment of progress on reforms (section 4.1) and implementation of the investment
project (section 4.2) the APL1 project outcome is rated "Satisfactory".

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1    Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of the APL1 project estimated at 41.8 percent is in line with the
appraisal estimate of 37.6 percent (refer Annex 3). The economic costs are estimated before taxes and
duties and the benefits are estimated at the willingness to pay, which is consistent with the methodology
adopted at the appraisal. The ERR for the transmission component (43.4 percent) is estimated based on the
reduction in transmission losses resulting from the investments in the transmission system under APL1.
The loss reduction established by the load flow study carried out by APTRANSCO is higher than the
benefits envisaged at the appraisal.

4.3.2    The utilities have realized significant benefits of reduction in technical and non-techincal losses,
and improvements in the quality of supply from the investments in distribution and metering system.
Extensive governance efforts, including reduction in electricity theft have substantially contributed to
reduction in non-technical losses. However, in the absence of full consumer metering it is difficult to
segregate technical and non-technical losses. Limited survey of consumers before and after the installation
of high quality meters shows 5-20 percent increase in the metered energy, which validates ten percent
increase in metered sales assumed at the appraisal. Improvements in voltages and reduction in transformer
overloading have resulted in reduction in transformer failure rates, thereby improving the availability and
reliability of power supply for the consumers and reduction in maintenance costs for the utilities. The net
present value of savings from reduced distribution transformers failures is estimated to be Rs 2 billion.
The ERR of distribution component is 40 percent and that of the metering component is 42.5 percent. The
ERR is robust despite some delays in implementation of distribution and metering schemes under the
project. Since in addition to the APL1 investments the utilities implemented a large program of investments
in T&D, a cost benefit analysis of the aggregate investment program shows a robust ERR of 51.5 percent.

4.3.3    The additional benefits (not included in the analysis as these are difficult to quantify) accrue to the
consumers on account of improved voltage conditions, and reduction in interruptions. These improvements
would generally translate in reduction of motor burnouts for the farmers, reduction in equipment damage
for industries and create an attractive environment for the new industries. Consumers have also benefited
from the improvements in customer service quality, specifically in complaint handling, reduction in
metering and billing discrepancies, and improved facilities for bill collection.

4.3.4    The economic benefits of the reform program are high. At appraisal, the baseline estimate was Rs
221 billion (NPV at 12 percent over 20 years) with a worst-case based on a sensitivity analysis to be
Rs.141 billion. At project completion the benefits of the reform program is estimated at Rs.189 billion.
The economic benefits are considered to arise from reduction in T&D losses, reduction in consumption by
pilferers, reduced cost of captive generation and lower repair costs of distribution transformers.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

4.4.1    Financial rate of return (FRR) of the project is estimated to be 38 percent. The component-wise
FRRs are : transmission 36.9 percent, distribution 29 percent and metering 41.6 percent. Despite some
adverse factors such as slow pace of tariff rationalization and lower than projected growth in the electricity
sales the financial returns are robust on account of higher than envisaged reduction in the technical and
non-technical losses (theft) in the T&D system. When considering the capital financing structure for APL1



                                                     - 12 -

investments, the returns estimated at the ICR are much higher compared to the appraisal estimates due to
decrease in the interest rate and greater leverage obtained by the equity investments by virtue of loan from
the financial institutions (refer Annex 3). The utility's equity contribution has been about Rs 1020 million
as against the estimated equity contribution of Rs 1735 million at appraisal. High financial return confirms
that the prioritized investments supported by the APL1 project were useful to reduce losses and
infrastructure constraints in the T&D system.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1    The institutional development impact of the project has been substantial. The new power
companies and the Regulatory Commission established under the project are functioning satisfactorily
under the new legal, structural and regulatory framework.

4.5.2    The APERC has set a good track record of regulating the sector as per the legal framework, and
has in a short span of four years developed significant capacity on sector regulation. The Commission has
received advise from the international and national consultants in developing its rules and guidelines of
functioning, as well as on the strategic issues of sector regulation. The Commission members and staff
have undergone extensive training and have undertaken study tours to U.K, Argentina, and Brazil to
understand the regulatory reforms implemented by these countries. The APERC has an ongoing exchange
program with the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission and the members/staff actively participate in
seminars/workshops to disseminate the knowledge and share experiences. The APERC has set precedent in
addressing important regulatory issues in the sector. On the important issue of tariffs setting the
Commission has established a transparent review process, has made efforts to link tariffs to cost of supply
and reduce the cross subsidy among consumer categories. However, the progress on reducing subsidy
provided to the agriculture and residential consumers and metering of agriculture consumers (inspite of
regulatory directives) has been constrained due to socio-political considerations.

4.5.3    The power companies have developed their institutional capacity during the course of
implementation of the project. The management of the companies has been strengthened with the induction
of a few key managers with appropriate skills and experience in the area of finance, corporate planning,
information technology and human resources development. The companies are streamlining their business
processes and performance review practices to enhance their commercial orientation and operate in the new
regulated environment. Some specific areas of institutional development include (i) sector regulation - a
Regulatory Affairs Cell has been set up in APTRANSCO (and more recently in the discoms as well) which
provides support for interface with the Regulatory Commission, tariff filing and compliance with the
regulatory directives; the staff have been trained on the key regulatory principles; (ii) power procurement
and merit order dispatch thereby reducing the cost of power procurement; (iii) use of specifically designed
information technology interventions for establishment of database and management tools to analyze,
review and monitor performance e.g. customer analysis tool to target customers for improving billing and
collection efficiency; and (iv) streamlining financial management function in the Discoms (refer Annex 10).

4.5.4    Human resource development has been an important part of the reforms with a special emphasis on
the staff and management training. The Power Training Institute has been strengthened and offers training
on regular basis. A large number of staff have been involved in the implementation of reforms, operation
and management of the power utilities under the new legal, and regulatory framework. Working along with
the international and national consultants the staff have gained knowledge in the areas of sector regulation,
planning, information management, and operational efficiency improvement. While implementing the
APL1 project the staff have gained experience in investment planning, procurement, and integrating social
and environmental aspects in project planning and execution.



                                                      - 13 -

4.5.5    The institutional development efforts need to be further reinforced through (i) continuity of staff for
a reasonable period of time in the specific function; (ii) training at middle management level given the high
attrition rate of the senior management; and (iii) induction of staff with appropriate skills in the areas of
finance, HRD and strengthening the regulatory affairs cell in the Discoms. The DFID has extended its
technical assistance support upto FY2006 for further implementation of the reforms.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1    The severe drought faced by Andhra Pradesh for two consecutive years (FY2002 and FY2003)
adversely affected the power sector's financial performance. Drought resulted in lower availability of
hydropower generation and increased electricity demand by the farmers for groundwater irrigation.
Hydropower availability declined from an annual average of 8500 MUs during the nineties (FY1990-2000)
to 3200 MUs in FY2003. The additional fiscal impact of shortage of hydropower generation is estimated
at Rs 5 billion in FY2002 and Rs 2.7 billion in FY2003.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1    The Government's ownership and commitment have been important factors for the progress in the
reforms. The reforms have been closely guided and monitored by the state government and the
management of the power utilities through a high level Steering Committee and a Task Force. The
government carried out extensive communication with the stakeholders (e.g. employees, consumers, media,
general public etc.) before launching the reforms. Its support for reducing theft, revenue collection, and
non-interference in the implementation of the regulatory directives has been exemplary. The GOAP has
provided substantial transitional financial support to the sector, including writing off Rs 9 billion state
government loans against the accumulated losses of the erstwhile APSEB during FY1996-99, taking over
the debt service burden of Rs.28 billion liabilities at the time of unbundling and provision of Rs 101 billion
subsidy support during FY2000-03.

5.2.2    An important factor adversely affecting the sector's financial viability and the resultant large fiscal
impact, is the continued politicization of tariff reforms and high subsidies , which is in fact a countrywide
                                                                             7


phenomenon. The first tariff order of the APERC in July 2000 led to a month long agitation in which three
people lost their life. While the government withstood the pressures to roll back tariffs, there has been no
further progress in improving cost recovery from subsidized consumers. Metering of agriculture
consumers is another important area where the progress has been slow. Under the situation of statewide
drought, on the government's directive, the utilities have from time to time not been able to effectively
regulate the power supply to agriculture. All these have resulted in higher than the budgeted subsidy
support required for the power sector.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1    The APSEB and its successor companies have provided extensive support for implementation of
structural and regulatory reforms. Establishment of a special reform program management organization,
continuity of most of the senior management and involvement of a large number of utility staff in the
preparation and implementation of reforms has been a positive factor. The management's attention to
operational efficiency improvement, billing and collection improvement and control of theft has contributed
positively to the utility's financial performance. For the investment project substantial preparatory work



                                                      - 14 -

including advance actions for procurement, attention to social and environment safeguards, establishment
of the project management unit (PMU), and finalization of project implementation arrangements resulted in
good progress in the implementation of APL1 (main) investment schemes. The implementation of the
supplemental schemes, however, faced some delays on account of (i) time taken by the newly created
Discom's management to settle down and finalize scope of the distribution schemes, (ii) delays in finalizing
procurement decisions and award of contracts by APTRANSCO and (iii) mis-procurement of two metering
packages. Another area where the progress has been slow is the realistic estimation of sales to agriculture
consumers under the ongoing study being supported by CIDA.

5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1    Estimated project cost at appraisal was US $ 281 million with the Bank's contribution of US $ 210
million and the balance to be financed by Andhra Pradesh and other co-financers. Against this, the actual
project cost has been US $ 260 million and Bank's contribution US$ 169.8 million. The Bank loan was
reduced to US $190 million after mis-procurement of US $ 20 million and the disbursement against this has
been 89%. The proposed technical assistance of US $ 32 million was substituted with the large grant
support from the DFID (£ 28 million) and CIDA (Canadian $ 5.7 million). A significant share of the
unallocated amount (US $ 11 million) and some savings in procurement was utilized to finance additional
schemes for transmission system augmentation. In the metering sub-component savings from international
competitive bidding resulted in lower costs compared to the appraisal estimates.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1    Reform Program: The achievements of the APL1 project in establishing structural, institutional
and regulatory framework are sustainable. These are based on legal foundation established through the
Andhra Pradesh Electricity Reform Act 1999. While during the process of unbundling the employee unions
went on strike twice, their concerns and apprehensions are now well settled and the stakeholders have
accepted unbundling. The APERC is fully functional and its independent role accepted by the government,
public, consumers and the utilities. The GOAP is committed to implement second generation reforms
including separation of transmission and trading function by June 2004, and further progress towards
multi-buyer framework and introduction of competition is planned to be achieved over the next 2-3 years.

6.1.2    Substantial efficiency improvements have been achieved during the last four years demonstrating
the extent of potential gains in the distribution business. Institutionalization of some of these initiatives by
streamlining the utility's business processes is encouraging. The process of regulatory oversight and public
review of the utility's performance (under the ARR/tariff review process) are expected to maintain the
management's focus on efficiency improvements. Yet, the sustainability of these gains is fragile and can be
easily eroded under the public sector if the incentives, management oversight and the government support
weakens. The state government is cognizant of this and recognizes that privatization of the distribution
business will be important to lock in efficiency gains on a sustainable basis.

6.1.3    As mentioned earlier, the financial performance of the power sector continues to be fragile and
does face various risks. Sustainable improvements in the financial viability are unlikely unless tariff
reforms for the subsidized consumer categories are accelerated and government continues its support for
improving sector governance. Specifically, Andhra Pradesh needs to prioritize policy decisions on tariff
rationalization, reduce unsustainable levels of operating subsidies and meter all electricity consumers. In
the absence of meaningful solution for power supply to agriculture and mitigation of subsidy payment risk,



                                                      - 15 -

privatization of the Discoms under the current structural configuration will remain a challenge. The state
government has, under the fiscal reforms program, committed to undertake measures to improve the
financial viability of the power sector and reduce its fiscal impact. Timely implementation of these policy
measures will be critical for the sector's financial turnaround.

6.1.4    The political economy of power sector reforms in India imposes significant risk on its
sustainability. While there is much wider acceptance of reforms by the political parties ­ fiscal distress and
deteriorating infrastructure compel the ruling parties to give high priority to power reforms ­ the
implementation is often constrained by the ground realities of managing the populist demands. For instance,
after several years of following the practice of un-metered and subsidized power supply, farmer's interests
in maintaining these concessions are firmly entrenched and the issues have become politicized. Agriculture
metering and cost recovery warrants consensus of the political parties. It is expected that the National
Electricity Act 2003 through its provision for metering all consumers and continued pressure from the
APERC will help to mitigate some of these risks. There is a need for increased communication and
consultation with the farmers to get their acceptance for metering. The GoAP's Task Force on "Power
Supply to Agriculture" is attempting to address these issues and develop alternate mechanisms to deliver
subsidy directly to the farmers. At present four pilots through different models of social intermediation
(farmer's association, private franchisee, and community mobilization) are attempting to address the
concerns and apprehensions of the farmers and built support for consumer metering. It is important to
recognize that the progress in the distribution reforms in the short to medium term is likely to be slow and
uneven, and may require a much longer time for implementation depending on the capacity of the
government to address the key reform issues.

6.1.5    Investment program. The benefits of the investment program are substantial and their
sustainability is highly likely. The utilities have been progressively improving their operation and
maintenance (O&M) practices. The APTRANSCO is developing a transmission network maintenance
management system which will be an integrated computerized system to monitor operations and to take
maintenance management actions. The government, regulator and the utility management regularly monitor
the power system performance. The utilities have been providing adequate funds for system maintenance,
which is likely to continue in the future. The APERC under the process of annual revenue requirement
(ARR) review ensures that the utilities commit adequate resources for the operations and maintenance.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1    The investments financed under the project are conventional utility investments which the utility
staff have adequate capability to operate and maintain. The utilities have good organizational
arrangements for operation and maintenance. In addition the maintenance activities in areas where
sufficient manpower is not available is out-sourced. Regular training is provided to the operations staff to
upgrade their skills and learn from the best practices. Most of the project activities have been integrated
into the utility's regular operations, which has minimized the need for special transition arrangements. At
the time of loan closure about 97 percent of transmission component and over 90 percent of the distribution
component and metering schemes have been completed and put to regular operation. The utilities have
committed to complete the few remaining schemes by July 2004 (refer Annex 12). For these remaining
works most of the equipment has been supplied and the contracts for installation and commissioning works
are in progress. The utilities have initiated discussions with the financial institutions to arrange financing
to complete the unfinished schemes at the earliest. The Discoms have also agreed to support the
consultancy for completing the study on estimation of agriculture consumption and to finance the remaining
work under the meter-reading contract from alternate sources. The Project Monitoring Unit (PMU) will
continue to monitor the progress and provide to the Bank quarterly progress report on the status of



                                                      - 16 -

implementation of the unfinished schemes till they are completed and put to regular operation.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1    Preparation of reform program. The dialogue on reforms with the GOAP started in 1996 and the
Bank provided extensive support to carry forward the discussions on the benefits, key elements and
sequencing of the reform measures. PHRD funds (US $ 345,000) and PPF facility (US $ 2 million) were
used to engage consults for reform program design, preparing business plan and financial restructuring
plan. The Bank team also assisted Andhra Pradesh to mobilize support from other bi-lateral donors. The
experience and lessons from the reforms in Haryana and Orissa were taken into account in the project
preparation and for designing the broad framework for the subsequent APLs . While the risks of reversal
                                                                                  8


of political commitment to reforms and delays in subsequent phases of reforms were highlighted at
appraisal, these risks were not fully incorporated in defining the outcomes of reforms ­ time frame of
reform implementation and pace of financial turnaround were ambitious.

7.1.2    Preparation of investment project. The Bank assisted in prioritizing the investment schemes,
which were a part of the utility's long term investment plan, based on an agreed scientific criteria including
cost effectiveness of the investments. The environment and social impact minimization measures were
integrated at the project planning stage. Frequent interactive sessions were held on the Bank's procurement
procedures, implementation planning and preparation of the procurement packages.

7.1.3    Social and environmental safeguards. During the project preparation the Bank assisted APSEB
to adopt "Social Policy and Procedures (SPP)" and entitlement framework to address the adverse impacts,
if any, from the investment program. The policy focused on (i) avoidance of acquisition of private land by
exploring the available government land (ii) payment of compensation through a price agreed by direct
negotiations (iii) assistance to all affected persons irrespective of their legal status (iv) payment of
compensation prior to the start of civil works and (v) measures for assessing the damages suffered due to
laying of transmission lines and towers. To encourage focus on environmental management the Bank
assisted the executing agency to prepare and adopt an "Environment Safeguards Policy" and shared
international good practices and guidelines for environment management.

7.1.4    Financial management aspects. Financial management issues were discussed extensively during
the project preparation. The GOAP and the executing agencies committed to (i) timely release of project
funds, and in case of default agreed to consider an alternative procedure for transferring the Bank's
proceeds directly to the executing agency(ies) (ii) preparation of computerized quarterly project monitoring
reports (PMRs) and (iii) implementation of the financial management action plan including strengthening of
staffing, system, processes, internal and external audit function.

7.1.5    Overall, the Bank's lending performance is rated "Highly Satisfactory". A number of lessons have
emerged in the course of implementation of power sector reforms (refer section 8.1) which would require
more emphasis on the political economy issues and design/pace of the reform implementation.

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1    Implementation of reforms and investment project was closely supervised by the Bank. Continuity
of the Bank team members and the field office presence of the majority of the project team were helpful in



                                                       - 17 -

close review of the project. Specialists in regulation, and staff from the Bank's guarantee department and
IFC joined select missions for discussions on distribution privatization. Joint quarterly reviews were
carried out with the DFID and CIDA and in addition short technical missions were also fielded.

7.2.2    Reform Implementation. Key policy issues identified during the implementation of reforms and
next steps for deepening the reforms were highlighted to the government during the project supervision by
the project team and the Bank management. The Bank's team continuously highlighted the key issues
constraining the financial performance. A study on "Power Supply to Agriculture in Andhra Pradesh" was
carried out by the Bank as a part of its Economic Sector Work, which highlighted the regressive nature of
the power subsidies provided to the farmers. Important areas where the Bank has been assisting include
implementation of multi-year tariffs for mitigating regulatory risks, assessment of alternate mechanisms to
deliver subsidy to the farmers while enabling the utilities to operate in a commercial manner, and move to
multi-buyer industry structure.

7.2.3    Investment Project Implementation. The investment project implementation was closely
supervised by the technical and procurement specialists, including through field visits. The team assisted
the executing agency(ies) in (i) the preparation of the investment plans and prioritization of critical
investments, (ii) advising on the best practices for technical specifications for procurement of goods and
equipment and (iii) advising on upgrading transmission network operation and maintenance practices. The
Bank team assisted in removing constraints faced during the implementation, e.g. the fund flow problem
was addressed by arranging overdraft from the commercial bank to increase liquidity for payments and
special commitment route was used for large foreign contracts.

7.2.4    Social and environment safeguards. The implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan (RAPs)
was closely supervised and a quarterly progress reporting system was set up to monitor payment of
compensation to the project affected people. The Bank played a pro-active role in enabling the persons
affected in one of the sub-stations to receive ex-gratia payments for providing land they had been
cultivating for several years. The Bank also guided the executing agency to undertake a study on
socio-economic impact assessment of power sector reforms to identify the likely impacts of reform on the
poor and vulnerable, establish baseline information on quality and service of power supply, level of
consumer satisfaction and perception of reforms. The implementation of the Environment Management
Plans (EMPs) was regularly reviewed, including through field visits by the environment specialist. The
issues of capacity building for sustaining environmental management in project implementation were key
area of discussion during of the supervision. Appropriate provisions regarding health and safety
requirements were built into the technical specifications of the equipment, for instance non-acceptance of
equipment containing PCB materials, CFC gases and producing noise above permissible levels. Similarly
in the works contracts provisions for appropriate management of environmental impacts during
construction were integrated.

7.2.5    Financial management aspects. The Bank team (i) supervised the funds flow under the project
through a special reporting format designed to monitor the time taken at various stages of funds flow cycle,
highlighted the problems faced by the project in its initial stages of implementation to the highest level and
ensured that measures were taken to streamline the process, (ii) carried out quarterly review of the project
monitoring reports (PMRs) (iii) followed up on the compliance with the SOE audit and entity audits and
(iv) advised the utilities on institutional development of the financial management function.

The Bank's supervision performance is rated as "Satisfactory".

7.3 Overall Bank performance:



                                                      - 18 -

In summary, overall Bank's performance is rated as "Satisfactory".

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1    The Borrower's preparation was highly satisfactory. The design of the reform program was based
on extensive consultation carried out by the GOAP at various levels including academia, policy makers,
political parties, employees, NGOs, and the public. Before initiating implementation the government issued
a "White Paper on Power Sector" which was placed in the legislative assembly. This paper presented a
detailed analysis of the deteriorating financial conditions and growing infrastructure constraints under the
business as usual scenario, and presented a strong case for the reforms. The Chief Minister and his cabinet
colleagues held meetings at several towns and villages to explain the reform program to the public. The
government successfully managed to address the concerns and apprehensions of the employees raised
during the two strikes against reforms. The key measures taken by the GOAP before loan negotiations
included (i) enactment of the state Reform Act (ii) unbundling of APSEB and establishment of corporatized
generation and T&D companies (iii) 10 percent increase in retail tariffs after a gap of three years (iv)
preparation of a financial restructuring plan and (v) setting up reform program management organization.
Several international and national consultants were engaged to assist in the areas of finance, legal and
technical issues in the reforms implementation.

7.4.2    The investment plans and the program and project implementation plan were well prepared. A
project monitoring unit (PMU) with qualified staff in the engineering, procurement and finance discipline
was formed to design, implement and monitor the project and for coordination with the Bank. The planning
and operational departments of the utility provided support to the PMU. Extensive preparatory work was
undertaken for identifying critical investments and US $ 50 million worth procurement packages were
ready for award before the loan effectiveness.

7.4.3    Environment and Social Management Unit (ESMU) was created in APTRANSCO to integrate the
safeguard issues in implementation of the investment schemes. The Resettlement Action Plans were well
prepared and presented estimates of private land acquisition requirement and other impacts associated in
the construction of sub-stations and transmission lines. The executing agency adopted the "Environment
Safeguards Policy" and prepared environment management plans (EMPs) for the APL1 investments.
Environmental safeguards were integrated at the planning stage by ensuring that all ecologically sensitive
areas were avoided in route/site selection. It was also ensured that old transformers did not contain oils
laden with hazardous Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCB) by testing a sample of transformers.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1    The government's support is evident from (i) the support provided for financial restructuring, (ii)
full and timely payment of the subsidy committed as per the regulatory directives, (iii) non-interference and
support to the utilities in controlling electricity theft and collection of dues from the consumers, including
the government departments, (iv) support for improving corporate governance by allowing appointment of
senior managers through a transparent and competitive selection process and (v) non-interference in the
regulator's jurisdiction and in implementing the regulatory directives.

7.5.2    Areas where there were some delays included appointment of independent board of directors and
provision of full financial and functional autonomy to the Discoms. An important policy area where the
progress is slow is rationalization of operating subsides. Management and regulation of power supply to
agriculture has been uneven imposing a large financial risk. Drought faced by the state for the two



                                                        - 19 -

consecutive years further constrained reforms in the area




                                                   - 20 -

of power supply to agriculture. The GOAP has from time to time reiterated its commitment to privatize
distribution business, but the schedule for privatization has slipped. While there has been progress in
addressing important issues identified as conditions precedent to launch the transaction, however, the most
critical risk of power supply to un-metered agriculture consumers remains to be adequately addressed.

7.5.3    For the implementation of APL1 investment project the GOAP's support in releasing the entire
special account in time and ensuring generally speedy flow of reimbursement funds to the executing
agencies has contributed to the successful project implementation. The GOAP also helped in providing
speedy clearance from its agencies, wherever required for the project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1    Procurement and implementation. The procurement process has been generally satisfactory.
The procurement was rated "unsatisfactory" for a short period due to slow down and delays in finalization
of procurement of some of the distribution packages. Two packages were declared to be mis-procured as
the executing agency after obtaining the Bank's no objection for award of contracts did not award the
contract to the recommended bidder and instead sought to re-invite the bids. As the reasons given for
re-bidding were not acceptable the Bank had to declare these two cases as mis-procurement . The project
                                                                                               9


implementation has been satisfactory with completion of most of the schemes, except a few distribution
schemes which started late. A new practice of "third party" inspection to ensure quality of goods started
under the project, has been institutionalized. More attention should have been paid to strengthen the PMU's
infrastructure and appointment of staff with appropriate skills during the project implementation.

7.6.2    Social and environment safeguards issues. The ESMU successfully handled implementation of
RAPs and conducted training for the field engineers on the details of the policy provisions and procedures.
About 17.5 hectare of private land belonging to 18 title holders has been acquired for construction of 25
substations under the project, and 1500 land owners were affected due to laying of transmission lines. The
compensation payment and rehabilitation assistance has been fully delivered. An important
accomplishment of the project is that the civil works did not start until the full payment of land acquisition
and rehabilitation assistance was paid to the project affected persons ­ in two sub-stations while the
contracts were awarded the construction was delayed until full compensation was paid. The results of the
study on the impact assessment of resettlement implementation indicate that 61 percent of the affected
households have either improved or retained their previous income levels. The study confirms that all the
PAPs have received compensation and assistance in accordance with the policy provision. About half of
the households expressed the need to improve crop damage assessment process, and to expedite the process
of payment of compensation which is reported to have taken about a year. The APTRANSCO proposes to
update the Social Policy and Procedures to reflect the changes in procedures for payment of compensation
for crop damages, revise rehabilitation assistance amount and assistance for tower installation.

7.6.3    The environmental management measures were well implemented with the ESMU's support.
Training was provided to the field staff for implementation of environmental safeguards. The
implementation supervision by the ESMU could have been improved through field visits by the ESMU
staff. The staffing of the EMSU and their continuity, however, could have been better.

7.6.4    Financial management issues and covenants. Funds flow from the state government, after some
initial hiccups, was largely smooth and there was no diversion of funds for other than APL1 project. The
arrangement of additional counterpart funds through an over draft facility from a commercial bank also
helped in improving the liquidity of funds for payment as the special account alone was not sufficient to


                                                     - 21 -

meet the funds required for the full cycle of reimbursement. A computerized project financial management
system was developed in-house by APTRANSCO, though with some delay. An assessment of the utility's
financial management function was carried out by the consultants and an action plan for strengthening the
financial management function has been prepared. The utilities have initiated some measures in the areas
such as consolidation of financial statements, expense-tracking mechanism, fund tracking mechanism, cash
flow analysis and assessment of staffing and training needs.

7.6.5    The project/SOE audit reports were generally received on schedule, except for the first year of
project implementation where SOE procedure of disbursement was suspended for few months on account
of non-receipt of the SOE audit report. There have been no major accountability issues in the project audit
reports. However there have been substantial delays in submission of the entity audit reports on account of
(i) time required for the new power utilities after unbundling to set up their respective accounting functions
and adoption of financial management and accounting requirements under the Indian Companies Act and
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India standards, (ii) delays in finalization of the opening balance
sheet of the new companies and (iii) delays in appointment of a private auditor by the Contollar and
Auditor General (C&AG) (auditor was appointed in November 2000). The audit reports of all the entities
(for FY2002) were submitted to the Bank in August 2003, based on which the financial management rating
was upgraded to "satisfactory". The FY2003 audited financial reports were received in January 2004.
There have been audit observations in the entity audits (inherited from erstwhile SEB) pertaining to fixed
assets, debtors, bank reconciliation, IUT account, accounting standards which the utilities would need to
address along with rolling out the new chart of accounts and adoption of the accounting standards.

7.6.6    The Borrower and the executing agencies have by and large complied with the Loan and Project
covenants, except for the timely submission of the entity audit reports as mentioned above. Financial
covenants have been partially complied; the profitability indicators have been in non-compliance as the
companies have been incurring losses but the payables and receivables have been by and large in
compliance.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower's performance is rated as "Satisfactory".

8. Lessons Learned

Several important lessons have emerged during the implementation of power sector reforms in Andhra
Pradesh, as well as in other states in India. These lessons are relevant for the design and implementation of
complex reforms in power and other infrastructure sectors.

8.1      Implementation of reform program

Ownership, realism and political economy
·        Ownership and commitment of the government are critical for successful implementation of the
reforms. External agencies like the Bank can only facilitate the process by providing technical and
financial assistance. Reform design has to be state specific, recognize the starting conditions and political
realities of the state. Implementation of reforms is a long term process and flexibility in design and pace of
implementation is required to respond to the changes in political economy of the state as they arise.

·        Political economy dimension of the power reforms need to be realistically integrated in the
implementation strategy and expectation of the reform outcomes. Reforms are complex, politically
challenging and have to meet the expectations of the various stakeholders. While the Bank recognized the



                                                     - 22 -

political risks in reform implementation and reflected it in the project and program design, the appreciation
and understanding of these issues were at a broader conceptual level. The implementation of reforms has
revealed how this complexity unfolds at the operational level.

·        The expectation of the pace at which the reforms can be implemented and the outcomes realized
should be realistic. Given the socio-political constraints the pace of reforms will be determined by the
willingness and capacity of the governments to address key reform issues. Expectations of financial
turnaround and phasing out subsidies to create fiscal space for social sector investments need to be
moderated. In reality, the government would generally need to provide substantial financial support during
the transition period to meet the cost of reforms (e.g. financial restructuring costs, employee liabilities,
explicit provision of subsidy as per regulatory directives etc.). This would thus require prudent
prioritization of the government's expenditures and public policy decision making during the transition.

·        Subsidized power supply to agriculture is a deeper public policy issue and not a mere sectoral
issue. The problem of subsidized power supply to agriculture and resistance to metering is embedded in
distorted agricultural policies and political economy factors. Both the Bank and India have to recognize
that sustainable improvement in power sector requires addressing this complex economic and political
problem stemming from the agriculture sector. National consensus of the political parties is necessary for a
meaningful solution. While there is growing awareness and recognition of this issue but the progress is
likely to remain modest in the next few years. Success in agriculture metering will require buy-in of the
farmers and utility staff, in addition to the government's commitment. The reform implementation strategy
will therefore need to include increased awareness and communication, and an approach to give incentives
to the farmers to opt for metering. Incidence analysis of power subsidies and alternate mechanisms to
deliver and target subsidies without affecting the commercial operation of utilities are important areas for
further analytical work.

·        Communication with the stakeholders is important for successful implementation of reforms.
Comprehensive communication strategy should be developed by the government to address the
stakeholder's concerns, dispel misgivings, build their support and periodically inform them about the
outcomes of the reforms.

Reform design
·        Tariff reforms and cost recovery improvement are essential for the financial turnaround of the
power sector. Tariff subsidy to the consumers must be explicitly defined and transparently delivered
without compromising the utility's finances. The subsidy should be adequately budgeted by the government
and provided in a timely manner. Further cross subsidy charged to the industrial consumers should be
phased out in a medium term time frame. Unless the distribution business becomes viable and commercial
risk of power supply to agriculture is minimized the successful privatization of the Discoms in the present
structure would be difficult.

·        Financial restructuring of the power utilities is akin to a bankruptcy proceeding where burden
sharing by various stakeholders is required. The GOAP provided substantial support for financial
restructuring, but the support from financiers and suppliers of power (central PSUs) was delayed. It was
only recently in 2003 that the GOI finalized a securitization scheme to restructure the overdue liabilities of
the state power companies to reinforce reforms. Until the full cost recovery through tariffs is achieved by
the utilities, timely and full payment of subsidy support by the state government will be important to ensure
adequate cash flow for the utilities to enable them to operate and maintain the power system.

·        It is important to focus on corporate governance and institutionalize reforms. The utility


                                                     - 23 -

managers should be selected through a transparent and competitive process. Strengthening financial
management and commercial functions, hiring staff with appropriate skills, and development of
management information systems are important measures for commercialization. However,
commercialization and institutional development of the utilities while breaking from the past way of
functioning may require considerable time. Expectation of quick change in the work culture and
management practices without adequate change in the incentive structure may be unrealistic. Technical
assistance to the utilities to enable them to operate in the new regulatory and commercial environment is
necessary.

·        Role of the Regulatory Commission in facilitating reforms is critical. A strong Regulatory
Commission with autonomy in funding and management of its budget, staffing and functioning can play a
significant role in promoting reforms. The Government must support, and be perceived by the stakeholders
as upholding the independent functioning of the Commission in accordance with the underlying legal
framework. Regulatory reforms to improve oversight, information access to the public, and to promote
efficiency improvements are critical. Technical assistance to the Regulatory Commission from its inception
stage is useful to build capacity in important regulatory issues.

·        Improvements in quality of supply and customer service is important to mobilize support for
reforms. Reforms are considered synonymous with tariff increase which is resisted by all consumers.
Some "quick wins" in efficiency improvement, early investments in distribution system to improve quality
and availability of power supply, and attention to customer service improvements are important to
demonstrate the benefits and build constituencies for supporting reforms.

Fiscal linkages
·        Power sector reforms are essential for any sustained program of state fiscal reforms. Integration
of the financing requirements of the power utilities in the medium term fiscal framework of the state
governments, supported under the Bank's structural adjustment program, is useful for improving
transparency in public expenditure. This consolidation will facilitate a realistic assessment of public
finances and public policy decision making by reinforcing the linkages between the power sector reforms,
opportunity costs of public expenditure and fiscal sustainability.

8.2      Investment Project implementation
Some important lessons that emerge from the project implementation are:
l Adequate attentions to project preparation and implementation arrangements at an early stage of the
    project development are important factors that can contribute to good implementation performance.
    About US $ 50 million procurement packages were ready for award before the loan effectiveness.
l Upfront integration of the social and environment safeguards results in smooth implementation of the
    schemes as well as easy implementation of these safeguards;
l Financial tie-up for the counter part funds and generally timely release of Bank disbursements by the
    state government to the executing agency enabled smooth project implementation.
l Two-step design of the special account, which entailed increase in value of the account after a certain
    threshold of disbursements was achieved offered good incentive to accelerate implementation.
l The process of unbundling and establishment of new companies does cause an impact on the level and
    quality of management/staff attention on implementation of investments. Under such situation the
    project implementation and disbursement schedule may need to be appropriately designed.
l It is important to accept realistic time frame required for the implementation of new accounting system,
    financial management systems and finalization of the entity audit reports specifically during the first
    one or two years of effecting unbundling and establishment of the new power entities.




                                                      - 24 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Following its review of the draft ICR, the GOAP and the executing agency had no comments. The editorial
comments received were included in the final ICR. APTRANSCO has prepared their assessment of the
project implementation, and the evaluation report is reproduced in Annex 13 of the ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Comments from DFID: In 1999, DFID agreed to provide £28 million as technical assistance funds to the
Andhra Pradesh Power Sector Restructuring (APPSR) Programme as a grant. Between 1999 - 2003,
nearly £26.5 million has been disbursed under this programme. The power sector restructuring programme
is supported by a $1000 million World Bank Loan. The APPSR supports the state government to bring
about a permanent shift in public expenditure in the power sector, from being a major drain on the budget
to that of a contributor of funds for social sectors and other priority areas for public investment. The other
development objective that APPSR supports is to ensure that the energy requirements of the state are met,
and that consumers are provided with reliable, high quality and cost effective electricity supply by
commercially operated power utilities, functioning in a competitive and appropriately regulated power
market. More specifically, DFID's support over the last four years, has focussed on the following areas: (i)
institutional development of transmission and distribution utilities, (ii) support to the APERC (iii) energy
audit and loss reduction programme (iv) socio-economic impact monitoring (v) support for further
commercialization/privatization studies and (vi) support to the state government to try pilots on alternative
subsidy delivery mechanisms.

Whilst the programme has not been able to achieve all milestones identified at the start of the programme,
there have been a number of significant improvements since 1999. These include new legislation, improved
commercial and technical performance and improved customer service. Key performance outcomes
achieved during the period of support include reduction in power sector deficit by over one third over the
last year, reduction in losses of 10 percent since 1999, improvement in revenue collection year on year
since 1999 ranging from 6 percent to 24 percent annually, improvement in cost recovery of 23 percent from
57 percent in 1999 to 80 percent in 2002, significant improvements in connectivity and regularization of
connections and improved customer services. A recent survey undertaken by CRISIL (at Government of
India's behest) of electricity reforms, in different states, placed Andhra Pradesh at the top of the league.

While it was widely recognized that the assistance provided by DFID to date has made a strong
contribution to the progress of power sector reforms in Andhra Pradesh, it was clear that when the project
was designed in 1999, the complexity of the process was substantially underestimated, both in technical
and political terms. As such, following a request from the state government in 2003, DFID agreed to make
available an additional budget of £15million over 2003-06, bringing DFID's total commitment to the
programme to £43 million over 7 years. The focus of support for this period is to enable the utilities and
the regulatory commission internalize the reforms and hence make the developments more sustainable. In
addition, DFID's support will be utilized by GoAP to test and implement measures required to comply with
the provisions of the recent Electricity Act.

During the last four years, DFID has been working in close partnership with the power sector advisory
team in the World Bank. DFID is pleased with the quality of this working relationship, and highly values
the professional analysis and experience that Bank staff bring to bear on the discussions. We look forward
to deepening this relationship as the reform programme moves to future years of support.

Comments from CIDA: The CIDA contribution to the Andhra Pradesh Power Sector Restructuring
Project was part of a broad CIDA program of technical assistance in support of power sector reform in


                                                       - 25 -

India. The CIDA technical assistance to Andhra Pradesh ($C5.7 million) focused on capacity building in
the areas of system planning and tariff reform. The specific tasks included development of least cost long
and short term investment plans including generation and transmission plans, development of cost of
service and long run marginal cost models for integration into tariff submissions, development of a code of
technical interface, provision of analysis and recommendations for distribution reconfiguration, a water
management model to assist in the optimization of hydro and thermal generation and a study of agricultural
losses. The CIDA consultants worked closely with counterpart staff of the former APSEB. Over project
life the capacity development model enabled the team of counterparts to gradually assume full
responsibility for preparing investment plans and carrying out cost of service and long run marginal cost
analysis. As restructuring evolved the team was located with the Planning Group of APTRANSCO under
C. E. Reforms and are now considered capable of providing the necessary analysis for regulatory
submissions and business planning. The CIDA mandate enabled the consultants to train counterpart staff
on up to date computer modeling techniques and to equip them with necessary presentational skills. As
planning progressed the consultants conducted numerous workshops and seminars aimed at ensuring a wide
understanding of techniques and approaches.
In CIDA's view the success of the APPSRP resulted from the close cooperation between the Government
of AP, the utility(ies), the Bank, DFID and CIDA and coordination by APSEB (and subsequently
APTRANSCO) of interrelated consultant activities funded from the various sources. The donors initially
underestimated the magnitude and complexity of this difficult task. The combination of the different
working styles of the consultants, the different procedural practices of the partners and the absorptive
capacity of APSEB required the establishment of a strong commitment by the partners to coordination
activities. Initially there were delays in provision of counterpart staff with the appropriate classification and
experience. Over time this situation was gradually resolved as APSEB accepted the challenges and benefits
of establishing a trained planning cadre. To meet the changing environment of reforms, CIDA established
a contracting mechanism which allowed for the flexibility to adjust the contractor`s scope of work as
required by project demands and to retain the same consultant for the duration of the CIDA involvement.

Lessons Learned from CIDA involvement: (i) in establishing requirements for technical assistance, the
scope of work should provide for the time and resources necessary to address the capacity development
needs of the organization, allow for the flexibility to adapt to a changing environment and provide
constancy of approach; (ii) complex projects can benefit from multi-donor participation however special
efforts must be paid to establishing effective coordination; (iii) it is important for the client organization to
provide counterpart staff with the education and experience that will allow them to adapt to modern
practices and be available to the client for several years following closure of the project; (iv) reform
program can only succeed with long term political and management commitment

Summary: CIDA considers this project to be a prime example of successful donor coordination that
allowed each donor to bring their respective strengths to the table for the overall benefit of Andhra Pradesh.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Endnotes :
1. First Andhra Pradesh Economic Reform Loan was delivered in March 2002, and negotiations for the Second Economic
     Reform Loan (APERL-II) took place in December 2003.
2. GOAP, APSEB and Employee Unions had entered in a tripartite agreement in 1999 where a five-year period was provided
     for final transfer of employees to the new companies after unbundling.
3. Under the present tariff structure of extensive subsidies and cross-subsidies, sales mix variations imposes a large risk to
     the utility's financial performance. Actual sales in the last four years have been at a variance to the load forecast




                                                               - 26 -

   projections. During FY2000-03 the electricity sales increased by 6.7 percent compared to 10.4 percent growth rate
   assumed in the financial projections. Sales to HT-industrial consumers declined with the shift to self (captive) generation
   by the industries on account of high/ uncompetitive electricity tariffs. Sales to agriculture consumers on the other hand has
   been much more than the projected estimates (increasing from 10,200 MUs in FY2000 to 12,500 MUs in FY2003) thereby
   imposing increased subsidy burden on the state finances.
4. GOAP announced a policy directive to increase supply to agriculture to 12 hours/day up from 9 hours/day.
5. There has been continued year on year progress on reduction in cross subsidies. As a policy decision the APERC set a cap
   of 15 percent tariff increase for subsidizing categories in its first tariff order. In the subsequent tariff orders this cap has
   been decreased and now stands at zero for some categories and negative for HT-industries. For HT-industries the energy
   charge has reduced from a maximum of Rs 3.95/kWh in FY2002 to Rs 3.60/kWh in FY2004.
6. Average realization from agriculture in FY2003 is estimated at only Rs.0.31/kWh (10 percent of average cost of supply) in
   comparison to Rs.1.32/kWh in Uttar Pradesh, Rs.1.11/kWh in Rajasthan and Rs.0.55/ kWh in Karnataka.
7. The populist measures of free or low tariffs for farmers and waiving unpaid electricity bills are common promises by the
   political parties to swing voter categories, such as large farmers. In spite of several attempts to build national consensus at
   the Chief Minster's Conferences, to introduce minimum Rs 0.50/kWh tariffs for agriculture consumers, the progress in
   implementation is dismal. Andhra's neighbor state Tamil Nadu, until recently, offered free power to farmers.
8. The time required in building support and preparation for distribution privatization was an important lesson incorporated
   in designing the triggers for Andhra Pradesh APLs. Accordingly distribution privatization was agreed as trigger for APL3
   based on realistic assessment of the feasible pace of reform.
9. One of the metering packages was misprocured as the Bank did not consider the client's reasons for re-inviting bids with
   revised specifications to be serious enough to warrant cancellation of the award process. Second metering package was
   misprocured as Bank was not in agreement with client's decision to re-invite the bids as they had received adverse reports
   on meters supplied by the lowest bidder and they did not want to award the contract to the second lowest (L2) bidder as it
   involved additional burden of Rs.67 million vis-a-vis the lowest bidder (L1).




                                                             - 27 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Comprehensive reform legislation brought                                               1st February 1999
into effect (January 1999).
2. Regulatory commission established and                                                  31st March 1999
functional (April 1999)
3. Restructuring measures effected, and                                                   APGENCO and APTRANSCO established
new power utilities (APGENCO,                                                             on 1st February 1999.
APTRANSCO- by January 1999) and                                                           4 Discoms established on 1st April 2000.
distribution companies established and                                                    Transfer of employees completed in August
operational (September 2000).                                                             2002.
4. Debt and overdue commercial liabilities                                                Substantially achieved, though with some
rescheduling plan negotiated and agreed with                                              delays.
APSEB's creditors (September 2000).
5. Licenses wherever appropriate issued by                                                APTRANSCO - January 31, 2000
the commission (March 2000).                                                              Discoms - in March 2000 (provisional) and
                                                                                          April 2001 (regular 25 years license).
6. New Companies have made tariff                                                         Partially achieved. Average tariff increase of
submissions (March 2000).                                                                 15 percent made effective in July 2000 (for
                                                                                          FY2001) was sufficient as per the plan.
                                                                                          Subsequent tariff increases have not been
                                                                                          sufficient to cover revenue gap. However the
                                                                                          GOAP has been providing full and timely
                                                                                          subsidy support to the utilities to cover the
                                                                                          revenue gap/meet the losses meet their
                                                                                          losses, in accordance with the APERC's
                                                                                          directives. Rs. 101 billion subsidy provided
                                                                                          furing FY 2000-03 compared to projected
                                                                                          support of Rs.63 billion (PAD).


Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Transmission of 1300 Gwh of additional     Over 2700 GWh of additional energy handled About 6000 MUs (*) of additional power
power by 2003.                                by the system.                              transmitted through transmission system in
                                                                                          FY2003 vis-à-vis FY1999.
2. Improved voltage profile in selected areas Mostly achieved (5-20 percent improvements Good progress achieved (see below for more
with reference to baseline data by 2003.      achieved).                                  details).
3. Reduction in system losses in selected     Reduced by 11 percent vis-a-vis baseline.   T&D losses have reduced from 38 percent in
areas with reference to baseline data, by end                                             FY1999 to 26 percent in FY2003.
FY2002.
4. Improvement in revenue and finances of     Financial loss of Rs.19.9 billion in FY03.  In FY03 loss was Rs 19.1 billion (provisional
the entities to meet the agreed financial                                                 estimates) as against the projected loss of
objectives.                                                                               Rs.17.9 billion (as per the APSAL targets).
5. Institutional development programs                                                     Several institutional development initiatives
designed and initiated by new entities by                                                 have been under implementation (see Annex
September 1999.                                                                           11).
6. Detailed engineering planning and                                                      Not progressed, as decision on Bank's
procurement arrangements substantially                                                    further support needs to be finalized in
completed for APL 2 by September 1999.                                                    consultation with GOAP and GOI.

1End of project
* Includes additional generation availability and investments in transmission system beyond the APL1 project.




                                                                - 28 -

Progress in Achievement of Program Performance indicators
                           Key Program Performance Indicators                                       FY1999     FY2002       FY2002     FY2003
                                                                                                    (actual)   (target)     (actual)   (actual)
 Energy (deficit)/surplus (%)                                                                         (13)     (11) a/      (2.5) a/      (2.9)
 Per capita consumption (kWh)                                                                         410        640          510         (n.a.)
 Access rate (percent population connected)                                                            50         55          67          (67)
 Estimated Transmission and distribution losses (%)                                                  33 b/     26.4 b/        29.6         26
 Private sector participation (%) in
 -Generation                                                                                           6          12          13           15
 -Distribution                                                                                         0         >30           0            0
 Return on Equity (%)
 -APGENCO                                                                                             (64)        16        negative   negative
 -APTRANSCO                                                                                           (64)        16        negative   negative
 Contribution to Capital Investments (%)
 -APGENCO                                                                                              9          20          Nil          Nil
 -APTRANSCO                                                                                            9          20          Nil          Nil
 Subsidies as %of revenue from sale of power                                                           16         11          48           26
 Contribution of power sector to state's budget Rs billion                                           (100)       (97)       (199.8)     (189.6)
a/ Energy deficit/surplus at appraisal was estimated based on long term demand forecast prepared by the consultants in 1998. However the
actual demand from HT-industrial consumers declined during the period FY1999-2002 due to shift to captive generation, as against the
projected demand growth of 8 percent. The long term load forecast has not been revised. As per the best estimates of the power utilities, after
accounting for the scheduled and unscheduled restrictions the energy deficit is calculated to be 2.5 percent in FY2002.
b/ T&D losses were estimated at 33 percent in FY 1998 and were projected to decline to 26 percent by FY2002. The utilities restated their loss
level to 38 percent in FY1999 based on more realistic estimates of sales to agriculture consumers.


(a) Some Important System Improvement Indicators

    Year         Total energy handled            Maximum energy                Maximum            T&D losses (%)    Distribution
                 during the year (GWh)            handled in a day           Demand (GW)                            transformer
                                                        (GWh)                                                        failure (%)
  FY 1996                  30918                         101.1                    4.576                 18.9
  FY 1997                  33657                         110.2                    5.002                 32               34.1
  FY 1998                  38170                         127.4                    5.742                 33.1             35.4
  FY 1999                  40612                         143.7                    6.48                  38               31.9
  FY 2000                  45752                         144.5                    6.684                 36.9             28.0
  FY 2001                  46745                         146.5                    7.143                 33.9             29.1
  FY 2002                  46951                         152.9                    7.029                 29.6             24.3
  FY 2003                  47938                         145.3                    6.895                 26.1             18.7


Breakdown & interruptions in distribution system
                       FY2000                            FY2001                              FY2002
   DISCOM                Nos           Average             Nos             Average              Nos          Average
                                         (Hrs)                              (Hrs)                             (Hrs)
                                         33 KV breakdowns and interruptions
   APEPDCL              15021             1.35            15760              0.95              12199          0.76
   APSPDCL              28722             1.07            26365              1.04              15788          1.12
   APCPDCL               n.a.             n.a.            60396              1.11              25964          1.02
   APNPDCL              32881             1.07            24038              1.33              19155          2.09
                                          11KV breakdowns and interruptions
   APEPDCL              88297             2.46            101086             1.79             101741          1.48
   APSPDCL             291985             2.24            255012             1.64             244862          1.51
   APCPDCL               n.a.             3.06            382281             2.53             261099          0.83
   APNPDCL             308174             1.85            232748              1.8             208458          2.49
                       The duration given above is average duration i.e. total duration/no. of failures




                                                                        - 29 -

(b) APL1 Investment Project Implementation Outcome Indicators

1.       Improvement in voltages

Central Power Distribution Company
                           Minimum Voltages     % Improvement Number of Number of         %
  Name of     Feeder    Before APL1  After APL1   in Voltage  outages per outages per Reduction
 the Circle   Details    (FY 1999)    (FY 2003)               year before year after  in number
                       Rural Urban Rural Urban Rural    Urban   APL1        APL1      of outages
 Anantapur               28     32    32    33   14.29   3.13    114          77         32%
  Kurnool                27     29    31    32   14.81  10.34    144          86         40%
  Medak       33 KV     28.1   30.66 30.41 31.94 7.91    4.17     24          18         25%
  R. Reddy               29    31.5   32    32.6 10.34   3.49      8          3          63%
 Hyderabad                 -    30       -  32       -   6.67      3          2          33%
 Anantapur              10.5   10.8  10.9   11   3.81    1.85    213         158         26%
  Kurnool               10.6   10.8  10.8   10.9 1.89    0.93    198         134         32%
  Medak       11 KV     9.4     10   10.69  10.9 13.00   9.00     23          17         26%
  R. Reddy              10.5   10.8  10.9   11.2 3.81    3.70      6          3          50%
 Hyderabad                 -    10       -  10.5     -   5.00      6          4          33%
 Anantapur              0.38   0.39  395    400  3.95    2.56    600         300         50%
  Kurnool   11 / 0.4 kV 0.32   0.36  380    390  18.75   6.85    450         280         38%
  Medak    Transformer  0/37   0.37  390    392  5.41    4.53    120          80         33%
  R. Reddy              0.34   0.36  380    390  11.76   8.33     15          9          40%
 Hyderabad                 -   0.39      -  415      -   5.06     16          10         38%


Southern Power Distribution Company
                          Minimum Voltages            %       Number of Number of           %
 Name of     Feeder    Before APL1 After APL1 Improvement outages per outages per Reduction
the Circle   Details    (FY 1999)    (FY 2003)   in Voltage   year before year after   in number
                       Rural Urban Rural Urban Rural Urban      APL1         APL1       of outages
  Krishna               30     29    32    31.5  7%      9%       10            5          50%
  Guntur     33 kV      29     28    32.5        12%    14%       15           10          33%
Prakasham               30      28   32.5   32   7%     11%       23           10          57%
  Nelloe                28      27   33.2   --   16%    19%       25           17          32%
  Chittor              29.5    29    32.6        11%    10%       30           22          27%
  Kadapa                28     28    32.8   32   17%    16%       34           27          21%
  Krishan              10.2    10.1  11    10.7  8%      8%
  Guntur     11 kV     10.4    10.2  11    11.0  6%      6%
Prakasham              10.2    10.0  10.6  10.8  8%      8%
  Nellor               10.4    10.2  11    10.8  6%      6%
  Chitoor              10.2    10    11    10.8  8%      8%
  Kadapa               10.2    10.2  11.0  10.8  6%      6%
  Krishna  11/0.4 kV   0.38    0.36  0.42  0.40  11%    11%      1022         916          10%
  Guntur   Transformer 0.39    0.37  0.43  0.41  10%    11%      1659         1077         35%
Prakasham              0.38    0.36  0.41  0.42  8%     17%      2825         1205         57%
  Nellor               0.39    0.36  0.42  0.42  10%    14%      1732         1467         15%
  Chitoor              0.38    0.37  0.42  0.42  11%    14%      3077         2293         25%
 Kadappa               0.37    0.37  0.42  0.41  13%    11%      2838         1497         47%




                                                 - 30 -

Eastern Power Distribution Company
                              Minimum Voltages                      Number of Number of        %
Name of the     Feeder   Before APL1 After APL1            %        outages per outages per Reduction
   Circle       Details    (FY 1999)    (FY 2003)    Improvement    year before year after in Outages
                                                      in Voltage      APL1        APL1

                          Rural Urban Rural Urban Rural      Urban
 Srikakulam                 31    32    32.5   33.5   5%     5%         82          79         4%
Vizianagaram                33    34    34.0   35     3%     3%         48          45         6%
Vishakhapatnm    33 kV      32   32.5   33.6   34     5%     5%         38          33        13%
Rajamundary                 31   31.2   33.3   33.5   7%     7%         34          28        18%
    Eluru                   31   32.1   33.2   33.3   7%     4%        126         108        14%
 Srikakulam               10.5   11.1   11.5   12.2   10%    10%       264         178        33%
Vizianagaram              10.7    11    12.3   11.7   15%    6%        138         123        11%
Vishakhapatnm    11 kV    10.9    11    11.8   11.8   8%     7%        183         173         5%
Rajamundary               10.1   10.1   12.3   12.2   22%    21%       103          91        12%
    Eluru                 10.4   10.8    13    12.8   25%    19%       1269        997        21%
 Srikakulam                315    380   380    400    21%    5%        535         468        13%
Vizianagaram               317    390   375    410    18%    5%        647         374        42%
Vishakhapatnm 11/0.4 kV    320    400   370    430    16%    8%        1006        394        61%
Rajamundary  Transformer   332    400   375    430    13%    8%        1372        727        47%
    Eluru                  318    416   416    435    31%    5%        3398        1871       45%


Northern Power Distribution Company
                           Minimum Voltages
Name of the  Feeder    Before APL1   After APL1 % Improvement Number of Number of          %
  Circle     Details    (FY 1999)    (FY 2003)     in Voltage  outages per outages per Reduction
                       Rural Urban Rural Urban Rural Urban     year before year after  in number
                                                                 APL1         APL1     of outages
 Warangal              28.5   29.0  32.5   33.0   14%    14%      158          83         47%
Karimnagar             29.0   30.5  33.0   33.0   14%     8%      176          106        40%
Khammam      33 kV     28.5   29.0  32.5   33.0   14%    14%      165          118        28%
Nizamabad              25.8   27.5  32.0   32.5   24%    18%      197          128        35%
 Adilabad              25.8   27.0  32.0   32.5   24%    20%      108          68         37%
 Warangal              9.8    10.0  11.0   11.0   12%    10%      248          139        44%
Karimnagar             10.0   10.2  11.0   11.2   10%    10%      326          175        46%
Khammam      11 kV     9.6    9.8   11.0   11.0   15%    12%      282          239        15%
Nizamabad              9.0    9.5   10.8   11.0   20%    16%      434          278        36%
 Adilabad              9.3    9.8   10.8   10.9   16%    11%      212          146        31%
 Warangal              0.35   0.37  0.40   0.40   14%     8%      696          347        50%
Karimnagar             0.36   0.38  0.40   0.40   11%     5%      450          280        38%
Khammam     11/0.4 kV  0.35   0.36  0.40   0.40   14%    11%      346          221        36%
Nizamabad  Transformer 0.34   0.35  0.40   0.40   18%    14%      647          374        42%
 Adilabad              0.34   0.36  0.40   0.40   18%    17%      348          192        45%




                                                   - 31 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                           Appraisal         Actual/Latest        Percentage of
                                                                           Estimate            Estimate               Appraisal
                             Component                                    US$ million         US$ million
1.Transmission system augmentation                                            70.00                 94.10                   134
2. Sub-transmission and distribution system strengthening                   103.00                108.63                    106
3. Metering system                                                            65.00                 54.96                    85
4. Technical assistance*                                                      32.00                  2.77                     9
5. Unallocated                                                                11.00

Total Baseline Cost                                                         281.00                260.46
  Physical Contingencies                                                                                                     93
                                Total Project Costs                         281.00                260.46
                       Total Financing Required                             281.00                260.46
*At appraisal, it was envisaged that Bank would finance US $ 6 million and the balance TA to be funded by the co-financers.
DFID and CIDA have provided significant grant for technical assistance which substituted the support envisaged to be financed
by the Bank under APL1.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                      1
                                                            Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                    ICB                 NCB                     2            N.B.F.           Total Cost
                                                                                  Other
1. Works                                     0.00               40.00               0.00               0.00              40.00
                                           (0.00)              (32.00)            (0.00)              (0.00)             (32.00)
2. Goods                                   165.00               12.00               3.00               0.00              180.00
                                          (149.00)             (11.00)            (2.00)              (0.00)            (162.00)
3. Services                                  0.00                0.00              30.00               0.00              30.00
including Technical                        (0.00)               (0.00)            (4.00)              (0.00)             (4.00)
Assistance
4. Miscellaneous                             0.00                0.00               0.00              18.00              18.00
Establishment and general                  (0.00)               (0.00)            (0.00)              (0.00)             (0.00)
expenses
5. Miscellaneous                             0.00                0.00               2.00               0.00               2.00
Refinancing PPF                            (0.00)               (0.00)            (2.00)              (0.00)             (2.00)
6. Miscellaneous                             0.00                0.00               0.00               0.00               0.00
                                           (0.00)               (0.00)            (0.00)              (0.00)             (0.00)
    Total                                  165.00               52.00              35.00              18.00              270.00
                                          (149.00)             (43.00)            (8.00)              (0.00)            (200.00)
Figures in brackets are respective amounts financed by IBRD. The approved project amount was US $ 210 million. About US$
11 million Bank loan was retained as unallocated to be utilized among the four main project components.




                                                             - 32 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                       1
                                                            Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                  ICB               NCB                       2           N.B.F.           Total Cost
                                                                                  Other
   1. Works                                                     41.39                                   4.22             45.61
                                               ()              (17.93)                ()              (0.00)            (17.93)
   2. Goods                                167.69               0.21                0.63               21.74            190.27
                                           (146.96)             (0.21)             (0.63)             (0.00)            (147.80)
   3. Services                                                                      2.48                                  2.48
   including Technical                         ()                 ()               (1.94)                 ()             (1.94)
   Assistance
   4. Miscellaneous                                                                                    21.88             21.88
   Establishment and general                   ()                 ()                  ()              (2.10)             (2.10)
   expenses
   5. Miscellaneous                                                                 0.07                                  0.07
   Refinancing PPF                             ()                 ()               (0.07)                 ()             (0.07)
   6. Miscellaneous                                                                                                       0.00
                                               ()                 ()                  ()                  ()             (0.00)
       Total                               167.69               41.60               3.18               47.84            260.31
                                           (146.96)            (18.14)             (2.64)             (2.10)            (169.84)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                             Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                     Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 Bank         Govt.        CoF.        Bank           Govt.        CoF.        Bank     Govt.   CoF.
1. Transmission system           57.00       13.00                     63.20         30.90                     110.9    237.7
augmentation
2. Sub-transmission and          84.00       19.00                     76.42         32.21                      91.0    169.5
distribution system
strengthening
3. Metering system               53.00       12.00                     26.09         28.87                      49.2    240.6
4. Technical assistance           6.00       26.00                      2.03          0.74                      33.8     2.8
5. Unallocated                   11.00        1.00                                                              0.0      0.0
6. Total                        210.00       71.00                     167.74        92.74                      79.9    130.6

   The total loan amount after misprocurement was reduced to Us $ 189.69 million. Upfront fee of US $ 2.1 million is not
   included in the above estimate.




                                                             - 33 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

(This Annex has been summarized from the Economic Analysis Report, which is available in the
project files.)

Economic Rate of Return of APL1 Project
1.       Since the APL-I investment project was targeted on the T&D facilities most in need of
rehabilitation and on metering, at appraisal high economic returns were expected and the risk assessment
concluded there was a very small chance that the project would be uneconomic: the baseline ERR for
APL-I was estimated at 38 percent. The overall ERR of the project at completion is estimated at 41.8
percent. Both ERR and NPV are slightly higher than at appraisal.

Table 1: Economic Rate of Return
                           APL1 Main Schemes                  Main +
                                                           supplemental
                        At Appraisal           ICR             ICR
 ERR (%)
 Transmission               25.8%             46.0%           43.4%
 Distribution               53.2%             48.7%           40.0%
 Metering                   15.4%             46.5%           42.5%
 APL-I total                37.6%             47.3%           41.8%
 NPV (Rs. Millions)
 Transmission                3,710             4,419          6,015
 Distribution                6,110             5,883          5,644
 Metering                    544               1,596          2,537
 APL-I total                10,360            13,327          15,900
NPVs at 12%, expressed in constant 1998 Rs (FY1999). ERR in real terms.
Economic benefits are based on willingness to pay of Rs 3/kWh.

2.       The transmission investments in the project have been completed more or less on schedule. Benefits
from the transmission investments include technical loss reduction which based on load flow studies is
estimated to be about 50 percent higher than that projected at appraisal. The analysis also includes the
benefits derived from the flow of additional electricity through the transmission system as a result of
augmentation of the transmission capacity. The benefits from the sale of electricity saved due to reduction
in losses are measured at the willingness to pay, and the benefits of incremental power transmitted through
the distribution system at the long run marginal cost of transmission system. For the economic analysis the
taxes and duties have been excluded from the investments. The ERR of 43 percent at project completion is
significantly higher than the appraisal estimates of 25.8 percent.

3.       In case of distribution component, the ERR at project completion is 40 percent compared to
appraisal estimate of 53 percent. The return is lower than the appraisal estimate primarily on account of
delays in the implementation of the schemes. The analysis is based on only the benefits of reduction in
technical losses in the distribution system and distribution of additional power. In addition the investments
made under distribution component of the project has lead to significant improvements in the quality of
supply, which is difficult to quantify. The return, therefore, to some extent is an underestimate. For the
utility one of the benefits has been savings in the costs of repair of the distribution transformers. The NPV
of savings for reduced distribution transformer failures is estimated as Rs 2 billion.

4.        Metering results in economic impact because the unmetered users (pilferers) are likely to have a
willingness to pay (WTP) that is significantly less than the existing set of existing set of metered



                                                           - 34 -

consumers. If the presently un-metered users reduce their consumption once metered, there is benefit in
selling the saved energy to other metered consumers. At appraisal it was assumed that better metering will
result in 10 percent increase in metered sales (estimated to be 513 GWh for APL1 main investments), 10
percent reduction in consumption by the existing un-metered users once they are metered but under a
conservative assumption of a multiyear lag in metering effectiveness (assumed to be fully realized only
after distribution privatization). Sample survey carried out by an independent consultant at project
mid-term confirmed that the recorded consumption has increased by 5-20 percent with the installation of
high quality meters. Concerted attention by the Discoms' management has demonstrated that actual
implementation of metering and realization of its benefits has been much faster. This is evident from the
fact that during the period FY1999 to FY2003 while the input energy has increased by only 16 percent the
electricity sales to the consumers has increased by 24 percent. The ERR of the metering component at
project completion is estimated to be 41 percent as against 15 percent estimated at project appraisal.

Financial Rate of Return of APL1 Project
5.       Table 2 shows the financial return of the APL1 project. The FRR for APL1 project is estimated to
be 38 percent. The FRR is highest for the metering component (42 percent), followed by transmission (36.5
percent) and then the distribution component (29 percent). The estimates are based on project costs
including taxes and duties, and O&M costs assumed at 2 percent of the cumulative capital cost. The
benefits to the utility are estimated at an average retail tariff. Despite some adverse factors such as slow
pace of tariff reforms, and lower than projected growth in electricity sales, the returns are high on account
of higher than envisaged reduction in T&D losses and control of theft.

6.       The financial returns are also estimated considering the project financing structure (an approach
adopted at appraisal). The returns at project completion is estimated to be much higher (> 100 percent)
compared to the appraisal estimates (33 percent). The high returns are the result of reduction in interest
rates and higher debt equity ratio for the project - the utility's equity contribution was Rs 1020 million as
against the estimated contribution of Rs 1735 million at project appraisal.

Table 2: Financial Rate of Return
                                                 APL1 Main Schemes              Main +
                                                                            supplemental
                                              At Appraisal          ICR          ICR
 FRR (%)
 Transmission                                                      39.6%        36.5%
(considering project financing)                 (18.8%)           (38.7%)      (24.4%)
 Distribution                                                      35.0%        29.0%
(considering project financing)                (110.3%)           (114%)       (>100%)
 Metering                                                          75.3%        41.6%
(considering project financing                   (96%)            (>100%)      (>100%)
 APL-I total                                                       41.6%        38.4%
(considering project financing)                  33.3%            (>100%)      (>100%)
 NPV (Rs. Million)
 Transmission                                                       4049        5444
 Distribution                                                       4485        4421
 Metering                                                           3965        6465
 APL-I total                                                                    16330
NPVs at 12%, expressed in constant 1998 Rs (FY1999). FRR in real terms.


Benefits of Reform Program
7.       At appraisal, the overall benefits of the AP reform and restructuring program under the baseline
assumptions were estimated at Rs 223 billion with the worst case revealed by the sensitivity analysis at Rs



                                                       - 35 -

141 billion. These benefits were expected to be derived from the following sources:
l improvement of technical losses in the T&D system.
l reduction in consumption by pilferers (the economic cost of supplying pilferers exceeds their WTP and
   thus reduction in pilferage results in a net economic benefit (reduction in economic cost of supply
   minus reduction in consumer surplus of pilferers).
l reduced costs of private supply which ties up much capital in self-generation that is often used only a
   few hours a day, and with low efficiency using expensive liquid fuels. (The concomitant improvements
   in availability, quality and reliability of power supply constitute additional benefits, but these were not
   quantified).
l lower repair costs for distribution transformers.
l improved supply quality (farmers presently spend more for the cost of rewinding pump motors
   damaged by poor supply quality than for payment of electricity).
l meeting previously unserved demands, made possible by the probability that restoring the
   creditworthiness of the power sector through financial reforms permits IPPs presently stalled because
   the insolvency of APSEB poses problems for financial closure to move forward to implementation.


8.      The economic benefits of the reform program as a whole are re-estimated at Rs.176 billion of
which the largest single component is T&D loss reduction Rs.146 billion (refer Table 3). While this is
somewhat lower than estimated at appraisal it is significantly above the then anticipated worst case o
Rs.141 billion.

        Table 3: Estimates of net benefits of overall reform program

                                                                   Rs.billion
         Technical and nontechnical loss reduction                       146
         Savings in distribution transformer repairs                        2
         Savings to agricultural consumers for reduced costs   Not estimated
         of pump set motor rewinding
         Reduction in unserved energy and private supply                  28
         costs due to adequate supply.
         Total                                                           176




                                                     - 36 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year    Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              March 17-18,                5    Div. Chief, Energy Specialist,
              1997                             Financial Analyst (2), Consultant
              April 28-May 3,             3    Financial Analyst (2), Consultant
              1997
              Sept./Oct, 1997             3    Energy Specialist, Financial
                                               Analyst, Consultant
              Sept. 17-19, 1997           2    Social Development Specialist,
                                               Environment Specialist
              Nov. 20-21, 1997            1    Energy Specialist
              Feb. 26-27, 1998            1    Social Development Specialist
              March 23-28, 1998           5    Energy Economist, Financial
                                               Analyst (2), Energy Specialist,
                                               Consultant
              May 18-21, 1998             4    Energy Economist, Financial
                                               Analyst (2), Energy Specialist
              June 3-10, 1998             5    Energy Economist, Financial
                                               Analyst (2), Energy Specialist,
                                               Consultant

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Oct. 5-9, 1998              6    Energy Specialist, Financial
                                               Analyst, Economist, Legal
                                               coordinator, Environment
                                               Specialist, Consultants
              Oct. 21-27, 1998            7    Financial Analyst (2), Energy
                                               Economist, Energy Specialist,
                                               Social Development Specialist,
                                               Consultant, Program Assistant

 Supervision
              May 6-12, 1999              4    Energy Specialist, Financial
                                               Analyst, Environment
                                               Specialist, Consultant
              July 26-Aug. 31,            7    Financial Analyst (2), Energy
              1999                             Economist, Energy Specialist,
                                               Social Development Specialist,
                                               Environment Specialist,
                                               Consultant
              Nov. 1-6 & 20-23,           8    Financial Analyst (2), Energy
              1999                             Economist, Energy Specialist,
                                               Social Development Specialist,
                                               Environment Specialist,
                                               Consultant
              Dec. 7-14, 1999             2    Energy Specialist, Consultant
              Feb. 7-11 & 28-29,          3    Energy Specialist, Financial
              2000                             Analyst, Energy Economist



                                                - 37 -

May 4-13, 2000        8  Energy Economists, Financial        S    S
                         Analysts, Principal Energy
                         Specialist, Energy Specialist,
                         Social Development Specialist,
                         Environment Specialist,
                         Consultant
August 1-12, 2000     6  Energy Economist, Financial         S    S
                         Analyst (2), Energy Specialist,
                         Economists, Research Analyst
November              7  Energy Economist, Energy            S    S
20-December 2,           Specialist (2), Financial Analyst
2000                     (2), Social Development
                         Specialist, Environment
                         Specialist
February 11-13,       2  Energy Economist, Principal         S    S
2000                     Energy Specialist
February 18 ­ 28,     11 Financial Analyst, Energy           S    S
2001                     Economist, Energy Specialist,
                         Regulatory Specialist, Social
                         Development Specialist,
                         Environment Specialist, FMS,
                         Procurement Specialist, Financial
                         Analyst, Envt Economist
April 4-7, 11-12,     8  Financial analyst, Energy           S    S
20-21, 2001              Economist, Energy Specialist,
                         Senior Economist, Social
                         Development Specialist,
                         Environment Specialist, FMS,
                         Consultant
September 24-29 &     8  Financial Analyst (2), Energy       S    S
8 October, 2001          Economist, Energy Specialist,
                         Procurement Specialist, Sr.
                         Social Development Specialist,
                         Environment Specialist, FMS
May 20-24, 2002       8  Principal Energy Specialist,        S    S
                         Financial Analyst, Environment
                         Specialist, Procurement
                         Specialist, FMS, Program
                         Assistant, External Affairs
                         Officer, Consultant
September 23-30;      12 Sector Manager, Energy              S    S
October 7-11, 2002       Economist (2), Energy Specialist,
                         Principal Energy Specialist
                         (EWDEN), Financial Analyst
                         (2), Environment Specialist,
                         FMS, Risk Guarantees Specialist,
                         Social Development Specialist,
                         Program Assistant
March 10-13, 2003     9  Financial Analyst (2), Energy       S    S
                         Economist, Energy Specialist,
                         Environment Specialist, FMS,
                         Social Development Specialist,
                         Procurement Specialist,



                         - 38 -

                         Consultant
      August 11-14,    7 Energy Economist, Energy          S    S
      2003               Specialist, Financial Analyst,
                         FMS, Procurement Specialist,
                         Program Assistant, Consultant

ICR
      November 5-7,    6 Energy Economist, Energy
      2003               Specialist, FMS, Social
                         Development Specialist,
                         Environment Specialist,
                         Consultant




                         - 39 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             105                           140
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    45                          101
  Supervision                            269                           543
  ICR                                      14                           37
  Total                                  433                           821




                                            - 40 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Government Documents
1.    High Level Committee report on Restructuring & Privatization of Power Sector, April 1995.
2.    Power Sector Policy Statement, February 13, 1997.
3.    Social Policy and Procedures including entitlement framework, June 1998.
4.    Environmental Framework & Safeguards for Transmission Project APSEB ­ August 1998.
5.    Program and Project Implementation Report (PPIP), Volume I and II, August 1998.
6.    GoAP's Strategy Paper on Power Sector, January 29, 2001.
7.    Business Plan for AP Power Sector (FY 2002-2007), January 2, 2002.
8.    Business Plan for AP Power Sector (FY 2002-2007), September 6, 2003.

APTRANSCO / DISCOMs Reports
1.    Environment Management Plan for APL-1 (Transmission Project), August 1998.
2.    Resettlement Action Plans for APL1 investments, 1998.
3.    All detailed project reports (DPRs) for the transmission and distribution component of
     APL1 project.
4.    Socio-economic Economic Impact Assessment of power sector reforms, November 2000.
5.    Mid Term review report: Review of the Design criteria, quality assurance, certification of
      Benefits of APL-1 Project, February 2002.
6.    Assessment report on Implementation of RAPs, October 2003.

Bank Reports
1.    All Aide Memoires
2.    Project Appraisal Document ­ Report No. 18849 IN dated January 25, 1999
3.    Financial Appraisal Report, 1999.
4.    Economic Analysis of the AP Power Sector Restructuring Program, 12 January, 1999.
5.    Economic and Financial Appraisal of the APLI Investment Program, 12 January, 1999.
6.    Environmental Issues in the Power Sector: AP Case Study Vol-I Main Report, April 1998.
7.    Power supply to agriculture, case study of Haryana and Andhra Pradesh, 2001.
8.    Economic and Financial Analysis the APLI project at ICR, February 2003.




                                                  - 43 -

Additional Annex 8. Key Achievements of APERC

Establishment of APERC
APERC is fully established and has during the last four years developed significant institutional capacity.
It has a Chairman, two members, 4 Directors, 18 officers and about 30 support staff. The officers have
relevant qualification and experience in the areas of economics, finance, engineering, law, and
communication. Often experienced staff from other organizations are also appointed on deputation. Staff
are selected through a transparent competitive section process, and a well-defined process of performance
appraisal has been established. An "Advisory Committee" with representatives of the various stakeholder
groups has been set up. The proceedings of the Commission are open to the public and all important
matters are reviewed under a process of public consultation. The Commission's decisions are in the form of
written orders, with proper justification, and there is full access to information and orders to all the
interested parties (web-site: www.ercap.org). To ensure justice and fair play the orders of the Commission
can be appealed in the High court .      10




Key Regulatory Initiatives
The main functions of the APERC as stated in the State Reform Act includes (i) to aid and advice in
matters concerning electricity sector in the state (ii) to issue licenses (iii) to regulate working of the
licensees to promote their working in an efficient, economic and equitable manner (iv) to regulate the
purchase, distribution, supply and utilization of the electricity, quality of supply, tariffs payable keeping in
view interest of various consumers and viability of the licensees, (v) to encourage private participation and
competition in the industry and (vi) to regulate the assets and properties in the electricity industry in the
state; require licensee to formulate a prospective plan for the sector. According to the National Electricity
Act 2003, the Commission is required to facilitate introduction of open access and competition in the
distribution business. Some of the important regulatory initiatives of the APERC are summarized below.

Licensing: APERC has issued licenses to APTRANSCO for transmission and bulk supply of power, to
four Discoms and nine rural cooperatives for retail supply.

Tariffs: APERC has issued four tariff orders, which have been implemented by the utilities. In these tariff
orders the Commission has attempted to (i) fully cover the entire prudent cost of the utilities (ii) link tariffs
to cost of service for the respective consumer category (iii) reduce cross- subsidies (iv) increase tariffs of
subsidized consumer categories; while the first tariff order was a progressive step in this direction in the
subsequent tariff reviews the GOAP committed to provide subsidies and tariffs for subsidized consumer
categories have not been increased (v) extension of fuel surcharge adjustment (FSA) to all consumer
categories except agriculture (which was earlier levied only on industrial consumers); more recently the
FSA has been modified to allow pass through of all the uncontrollable costs on account of fuel price
variation and hydro power generation in the retail tariffs on quarterly basis and (vi) provide price signals to
promote efficiency e.g. 50 percent tariff rebate is available for use of efficient agriculture pumps and water
delivery system. The APERC has, in 2003, issued regulation on long-term tariff principles (a multi-tariff
setting framework), in order to minimize regulatory uncertainty and risks.
_____________________
10
  Several tariff related orders of the Commission have been appealed in the High court, most of which have been dispensed in
favor of the Commission instilling the role of regulatory commission. First tariff order of APERC was challenged in the court
on the jurisdiction issue. This was a landmark order of the high court, which instilled the role of regulatory commission in tariff
setting. An important order on wheeling charges for captive and third party sales is currently under review by the high court.




                                                              - 44 -

Assessment of agriculture consumption and promoting consumer metering: APERC's initiatives include
(i) directing 100 percent census of over 2 million agriculture pumpsets installed by the farmers (ii) directive
to authorize or disconnect all unauthorized agriculture consumers (iii) defining a methodology for
assessment of electricity sales to the farmers based on sample metering at predominantly agriculture feeders
(about 30,000) and some consumer level metering (iv) multi-year tariff incentives to farmers who opt for
metered tariffs (v) metering of all new agriculture consumers and (vi) out of turn release of agriculture
connections on payment of metered tariff of Rs.1/kWh.

Promoting efficiency improvement: While promoting tariff rationalization on the one hand, the
Commission has on the hand focused its efforts on efficiency improvement in the power sector. The
Commission has taken several pro-active measures including (i) development of comprehensive merit order
procedures to promote efficiency in power procurement (merit order compliance is reported on website for
wider dissemination and transparency) (ii) review of PPAs through public consultation process; five gas
based IPP projects and 2 coal based projects (one in public sector) have been reviewed by the Commission
following the due process of public consultation resulting in better operational, financial and technical
norms; (iii) linking public sector generation projects at par with the norms for the IPPs to provide level
playing field; (iv) establishment of specific annual targets for T&D loss reduction, and reduction in
transformer burnout rates and (v) regular monitoring of the operational and financial performance of the
utilities.

Consumer performance standards: APERC has stipulated performance standards for the licensees and
published the "Consumers rights statement". The Commission regularly reviews the performance of
licensees in improving customer service.

Technical codes, standards, and guidelines for planning: The Commission has issued grid code,
distribution code, guidelines for short-term power procurement, and guidelines for investments. The
Commission has also issued orders on load forecast and generation capacity expansion plan.

Captive, Third party sale, grid support charges: APERC in 1999 had issued practice directive for the
procedures for obtaining consent for the captive power plants. These guidelines safeguard the licensees's
business from further loss of subsidizing HT-industrial consumers during the transition period. Order on
grid support charges was issued in February 2002, permitting the licensees to charge a fee from the captive
units operating in parallel with the grid support. Net capacity (i.e. difference between total captive capacity
and contracted maximum demand) is charged 50 percent of the demand charge applicable to the
high-tension industrial consumers. APERC's "Wheeling charges" order for third party sale (Rs.0.50/kWh
and system loss in kind i.e. 28.5 percent for FY2003) was issued in FY2003. These orders have been
challenged by the industries in the court and not yet implemented as have been stayed by the High Court.




                                                     - 45 -

Summary of APERC's Key Initiatives
FY2000·      APERC's business process, regulations for conduct of business, and conduct of proceedings
              before the Commission and service conditions of staff established.
      ·      Issue of transmission and bulk supply licenses to APTRANSCO
      ·      Issue of tariff philosophy paper, and guidelines for filing of ARR by the licensees.
FY2001·      First tariff order for FY2001 issued in July 2000: (i) linked tariffs to cost of service (ii) reduced cross

              subsidy (iii) substantial increase in tariffs for residential and agriculture consumers,
              (iv) metered tariff (optional) for agriculture consumers announced, (v) extent of subsidy from
              the government and payment mechanism defined.
      ·      Directed Discoms to carry out 100% census of agriculture consumers.
      ·      Regular distribution license issued (allows direct purchase of power from generators).
      ·      Regulation on "customer service standards" issued.
FY2002·      Tariff order for FY2002 implemented w.e.f April 1, 2002: (i) reduction in cross subsidy
              (ii) introduction of tariff incentive scheme for HT-industrial consumers (iii) 50% discount
               in tariffs for agriculture consumers adopting DSM measures.
      ·      Directed Discoms to complete 100%consumer metering, including for agriculture in three years.
      ·      Appointed independent agency to review transmission losses.
      ·      Announced regulation on grid code.
FY2003·      Tariff order for FY2003 implemented w.e.f. April 1, 2003. Incentive scheme for HT-industrial
              consumers further liberalized and extended for three years.
      ·      PPAs made public. Review of generation projects (5 gas based and 3 coal based) through public
              consultation process. Savings of Rs 100 crores/year in power purchase cost realized through the
              review process.
      ·      Regulatory orders on system planning, load forecast, generation expansion plan.
      ·      Methodology for estimation of electricity consumption by agriculture finalized; sales to
              agriculture restated by APERC (from 9800 MUs in FY2003 to 11350 MUs for FY2004).
      ·      Order on grid support charges and wheeling charges for third party sale (stayed by the High Court).
      ·      Long Term Tariff Principles (multi-year tariffs) issued in March 2003
FY2004·      Tariff order for FY2004 implemented w.e.f April 1, 2003. Key features (i) metering of horticulture
              consumers (sub-set of agriculture consumers) (ii) out of turn ­"Tatkal" scheme for providing
              agriculture connection with a metered tariff of Rs.1/kWh.
      ·      Fuel surcharge modified to include variation in fuel costs on account of hydropower available in the
              generation mix.




                                                    - 46 -

Additional Annex 9. Financial Performance of the Power Sector

1. Profit and Loss Account (aggregate for generation, transmission and distribution)

    Financial Year Ending March 31                      1999  2000  2001   2002    2003  2004
                                                                                  (Prov) (TO)
    Profit and Loss Statement
    Revenue from Sale of Power                           4432  4,597  5,649  5,928  7,223  8,089
    Non Operational Income                                188   388    424    500    958   1,272
 I  Total Power Sector Revenue                           4620  4,985  6,073  6,428  8,181  9,361
    Purchase of Power                                    3996  4,598  5,263  5,582  5,853  6,295
    Repairs & Maintenance                               18181   288    272    314    345    347
    Salaries and Wages                                    648   750    778    761    963   1,051
    Administrative and Misc. Expenses                     482   281    554    350    213    274
    Provision for bad and doubtful debts                    0      0      0      0      0      0
    Electricity Duty Paid                                  74     75     80     84     95   118
    Less Expenses Capitalized                              67     96   116      86     80   100
 II Total Cash Operating Expenditure                     5316  5,898  6,830  7,003  7,388  7,986
III Surplus after cash operating exp. (EBITDA)           -695  -912   -757   -575    793   1,375
IV  Interest & Financial Charges (incl. Lease Rent)      1195  1,530  1,484  1,622  1,550  1,731
 V  Depreciation                                          533   784    820    919   1,080  1,184
VI  Taxation                                                0      0      0      0      0      0
VII Adjustments                                             0     36    -22   187     -73     60
VII Profit/(Loss) after tax [III - IV - V- VI + VII]    -2423 -3,191 -3,082 -2,928 -1,911 -1,480
 I
    Revenue Subsidies & Grants                                 3,064  2,935  2,831  1,882  1,513
    Cross Subsidy as additional PP Cost                            0      0      0      0      0
IX  Actual Subsidy Received by the Sector                      3,064  2,935  2,831  1,882  1,513
 X  Return/(loss) of the sector                                -127   -147     -97    -29     33
     o/w Discoms                                                                        2     29
     o/w Transco                                                                       10   137
     o/w Genco                                                                        -41  -133


    Financing of Losses
    GOAP Subsidy                                                   0  1,626  1,561  1,509  1,513
    Bonds issued/Adjustments                             2100  3,064  1,053   850       0      0
    Other debts including arrears                         323      0   256    420    373       0
    Total                                                2423  3,064  2,935  2,831  1,882  1,513
Prov : Provisional; TO : Tariff Order




                                                        - 47 -

2. T&D Losses and Electricity Sales

                                 Items                     1998-99   1999-00   2000-01   2001-02   2002-03
System Losses of the Sector                                                              (Provl.)  (Provl.)
T&D Loss (for sale to discoms)                                         37.13%    34.78%    30.23%    27.64%
Transmission Loss - on a/c of sale to Discom                            8.33%     8.92%     7.22%     6.92%
Distribution Loss                                                      31.41%    28.40%    24.80%    22.26%
Power Purchase from APGENCO                                           27610.06  26796.87  25552.00  24555.00
Thermal                                                               27610.06  19749.33  19905.00  20751.67
Hydel                                                                            7047.54   5647.00   3803.00
Others (incl. wheeling)                                               16094.08  15391.88  18025.41  19212.48
Energy handled by APTRANSCO above 33KV level                          43704.14  42188.75  43577.41  43767.00
Third Party Energy handled at 33KV & above                         n.a           2308.09    891.79    521.66
Total Power Purchase by APTRANSCO                                     43704.14  44496.84  44871.00  44380.00
Total Power Purchase by APT-for sale to DISCOM                        43704.14  41716.00  42679.63  43178.34
Total Power sold by APTRANSCO to (DISCOM+Others)                      43704.14  42188.75  43998.25  43418.34
Total Power sold by APTRANSCO to DISCOMs                              37577.30  37997.00  39100.62  40187.00
Total Power Sold to Retail Consumers (incl.3rd party)                           29768.18  31601.03  32281.00
Breakdown of retail sales ( in Million Units)
Low Tension
Domestic                                                       5090    5485.92   5908.00   6729.48     6980
Commercial                                                     1060    1143.36   1235.00   1406.79     1537
Industrial                                                     1492    1575.77   1681.00   1774.58     1915
Cottage Industries                                               27      26.85     27.78     28.01         32
Agriculture                                                    7969   10222.13  11055.00  12155.27    12469
Street Lights & PWS                                             367     403.20    457.00    527.19       766
General Purpose                                                 100     114.72     93.00     80.60         86
Temporary                                                         5       6.85      7.05      6.96          6
L.T Total (in MU)                                             16100   18978.80  20464.00  22708.88    23791
High Tension
Industrial                                                             3983.63   3903.00   3746.05     4756
Industrial (Non-Seg)                                                    584.98    602.00    609.54       641
Irrigation & Agriculture                                                 60.49     38.83     56.53         66
Railway Traction                                                        891.48    923.00    963.93     1072
Electric Co-op Societies                                               1049.05   1131.68   1124.59     1123
Colony Lighting                                                         225.07    143.76    167.20       177
Interstate Supplies                                                      28.94      0.00      0.00      0.00
Temporary                                                                 0.18      0.00     25.50          4
H.T Total (in MU)                                              6842    6823.82   6742.27   6693.34     7840
Grand Total (L.T + H.T) - in MU                               26212   25802.62  27206.27  29402.22    31630

% of Metered Sales with respect to Discom Sales                        60.34%    59.37%    58.66%    60.93%
% of Metered Sales with respect to Discom Purchase                     41.46%    42.51%    44.11%    47.36%




                                                        - 48 -

3. Key financial indicators : at appraisal and ICR

                                            Key Financial Indicators: At Appraisal and ICR
                                      FY93  FY94   FY95     FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99    FY00    FY01   FY02    FY03    FY04
  PROJECTIONS (at appraisal)           (A)   (A)    (A)      (A)     (A)     (E)     (E)      P       P      P       P       P
Energy available for sale (MUs)       24064 26462  28559    29113  31348    36422   37715   40906   44541  46289  48477   57221
Total Sales (MUs)                     19386 21345  23095    23562  21067    24628   25371   28107   31245  34063  37826   46309
Revenue from tariffs (excl. subsidy & 19935 22727  22139    26018  34945    43641   49493   63735   83552 106104  136625  181883
other income) Rs million
Total revenue (before subsidy) Rs     20422 24031  22572    25820  35437    43640   49743   63985   83802 106354  136875  182133
million
Total cost (Rs. Million)              19626 23161  31144    37106  42650    54990   60512   80555  102195 114952  133870  171560
Net income (excl. Subsidy) Rs          794   868   (8569) (11,286) (7213)  (11350) (10770) (16571) (18393) (8599)  3004   10574
million
Avg. tariff/unit (Rs./KWh)            1.03   1.06   0.96     1.10    1.66   1.77     1.95   2.27    2.67    3.11    3.61    3.93
Avg. Revenue/unit (Rs/kWh)            1.053  1.13   0.98     1.10    1.68   1.77     1.96   2.28    2.68    3.12    3.62    3.93
Avg. Cost/unit (Rs/kWh)               1.012  1.09   1.35     1.57    2.02   2.23     2.39   2.87    3.27    3.37    3.54    3.70
Per unit deficit (Rs/kWh)             -0.04 -0.04   0.37     0.48    0.34   0.46     0.42   0.59    0.59    0.25   -0.08   -0.23
Revenue subsidy (Rs. Million)           1     1     9442    12592   8505    12560    7729   21919   21039  11818   8076      0
Net surplus/deficit for GOAP                (1280) (2045)  (4003)  (3914)  (8220)   (9997) (20374) (19134) (9698) (5613)   3745
(Rs. Million)


ACTUALS
Energy available for sale (MUs)                                                              43704   44496  44890   43700
Total Sales (MUs)                                                            23943   25230   25774   27207  29402   31631   33458
Revenue (excl. subsidy &                                                     42420   44320   45970   56490  59280   72230   80890
other income) Rs. Million
Total revenue (Rs million)                                                   43630   46200   49850   60730  64280   81810   93610
Total cost (Rs million)                                                      54980   70440   82120   91340  95710  100250  108650
Net income (excl. subsidy)                                                  -11340   -24230 -31910  -30820  -29280  -19120  -14800
Rs million
Avg. tariff/unit (Rs/kWh)                                                                     1.78    2.08    2.02    2.31    2.42
Avg. Revenue/unit (Rs/kWh)                                                    1.82     1.83   1.93    2.23    2.19    2.61    2.80
Avg. cost/unit (Rs/kwh)                                                       2.30     2.79   3.19    3.36    3.26    3.20    3.25
Per unit deficit (Rs/kWh)                                                     0.47     0.96   1.25    1.13    1.07    0.59    0.45
Revenue subsidy (Rs million)                                                                 30640   29350  28310   18820   15130
Net surplus / deficit for GOAP                                                                             (19980) (18960) (10230)
(Rs million)




                                                           - 49 -

Additional Annex 10. Distribution Companies - Efficiency Improvement Initiatives

Theft control : The GOAP has been a leader in controlling electricity theft and pilferage. The state
government enacted an anti-theft legislation in July 2000, which provides stringent penalties for theft of
electricity, including mandatory imprisonment to the offenders. The legislation enables constitution of
special tribunals and courts for speedy trial and recognizes collusion of the utility staff a punishable
offense. The government and utilities have made good enforcement efforts and the results in controlling
theft have been impressive. About 5 million services have been inspected out of 12 million metered
services. About 150,000 theft cases were registered during FY2000-03 compared to 9,200 cases during
FY1998-2000; 4100 consumer and about 50 employees have been arrested.

The success of the theft control initiatives was built on proactive measures taken by the government
including (i) one month of extensive communication with the stakeholders informing about the objective,
intent, and the enforcement of the new act (ii) "regularization drive" to provide one time opportunity to the
unauthorized consumers to register as legal customer with the utility; about 2 million residential consumers
were regularized of which about 50 percent were illegal connections (iii) implementing institutional,
management and administrative changes in the utility for effective enforcement of the Act, and (iv) gearing
up the law and order and legal support system of the government to provide implementation support.

The enforcement of the anti-theft legislation has been supported with institutional and administrative
changes in the distribution companies, as well as the government and judicial support system. The
vigilance department has been strengthened with appointment of the Inspector General of the Police as the
joint managing director in the company. The organizational structure has been modified to strengthen
coordination between operations/technical department, commercial departments and vigilance department.
The vigilance department has streamlined its procedures to make them simple and transparent. Government
has set up special police stations to deal with the electricity theft cases.

Initially statewide inspections and revenue collections drive were launched targeting large industrial and
commercial consumers, which was gradually extended in the rural areas. This was supported by a
comprehensive program of consumer metering and energy audit. Discoms have developed specialized IT
based tools e.g. Customer Analysis Tools, and Monitoring and Tracking System (see below) for
institutionalization of theft control and monitoring measures. These efforts of theft control have resulted in
significant improvements in billing and collection by the utilities.

Energy audit and metering : A comprehensive metering program to measure flow of energy at various
levels and determine reliable extent of transmission and distribution losses in the system is under
implementation by the utilities. High quality meters have been installed on all the interface points between
the utilities, all the 11 kV feeders are metered and data loggers have been installed to monitor the supply of
electricity to agriculture consumers. For realistic estimation of agriculture consumption about 30,000
distribution transformers (out of 190,000 DTRs) supplying power to predominantly agriculture consumers
are metered.

The power utilities have, in the last four years, undertaken an impressive program to replace/ improve the
consumer metering system. For all the high value customers, the existing meters have been replaced with
high accuracy electronic meters, and for the other customers also the old meters are being replaced with
better quality new meters. During FY2000-03 the utilities have installed about 3 million meters compared
to about 60,000 per year in the past.




                                                      - 50 -

Consumer Analysis Tool (CATs) : CATs is a comprehensive customer database, which analyzes customer
information to identify trends/anomalies in metering, billing, and collections. Key feature of the CATs is to
risk profile customers to enable the management to design strategies for efficiency improvements targeted
to specific customer group. The customers are grouped into different categories based on their payment
history­ a matrix of proportion of bill paid and number of defaults in twelve-month payment track record.
CATs addresses needs of finance, operations, vigilance, regulatory affairs departments. It acts as an
effective monitoring tool, helping management in exercising control. The tool has been fully
institutionalized and is being extensively used by the discoms. The results have been encouraging in
improving billing and collection efficiency, and for targeting inspections and checks by the vigilance
department ­ the paradigm shift from "inspect and detect" to "detect and inspect" has improved the
detection rate of irregularities to as high as 40 percent in case of targeted checks based on CATs analysis.

Monitoring and Tracking System (MATs) : MATS has been designed as a tool to assist the process of
monitoring and tracking of the progress of all cases of irregularities, like theft, malpractice, back-billing
etc. The objectives of the system are to: (i) streamline the regularization system by reducing the effort and
time required to inspect and follow-up on irregularities, (ii) enable process automation to reduce high
documentation requirements and loss of records and (iii) enable a performance based monitoring system for
tracking and taking action on irregularities. MATS is based on a workflow process where each completed
document is automatically sent to the appropriate reviewing officer based on the defined process. The
system is based on IBM Lotus Notes and connectivity is enabled through basic dial-up modems. Training is
given to all officers on the usage of the system to enable them to fulfill their role. The system also enables
performance review of the employees by tracking the period of time each case is kept pending at each level.
The system is highly role-based with each officer only being able to track as well as take action on cases
that lie within his/her jurisdiction.

Transformer Information Management System (TIMs) : TIMs enables effective tracking of the
distribution transformers as well as the associated structures through-out their life cycle and analyze the
information to (i) improve asset tracking, utilization and maintenance (ii) improve customer service through
deployment of transformers and exception handling (in case of failures), and (iii) enable greater visibility
leading to improved decision making. Discoms benefit financially by reducing inventory carrying costs and
diversion of funds into non-performing assets. Operationally it helps to reduce transformer down time and
evaluating vendor performance. It enables these through various reports which indicate (i) availability of
stocks of DTRs in stores (ii) locations with maximum transformer failures, (iii) identification of
transformers and structures which show frequent failure and (iv) time required to repair transformers at
each repairing location

Book Consolidation Module : BCM is a tool aimed to reduce the time taken and the manual intervention
involved in the consolidation of accounts from the circle level. The tool generates balance sheet and profit/
loss for the discoms after consolidation of all accounting units and also allows conversion of reports to
Excel for any further analysis. The module uses a combination of an accounting package and Microsoft
Excel to achieve this. In addition to consolidation, the tool also provides for various variance reports - (i)
budgeted verses actual comparisons; these reports compare monthly variance between budgeted and actual
income or expenses from various account codes and (ii) comparative statements; these reports compare
income/expense for current month with the previous month or the previous year to calculate appropriate
variances. The BCM has been rolled out in all the discoms and has reduced the processing time required for
consolidation of accounts.




                                                      - 51 -

Additional Annex 11. Technical Assistance Support Provided to Andhra Pradesh Power
Sector


                                       Technical Assistance Area / Brief Scope of Work                                            Funding
                                                                                                                                  Agency
Implementation of restructuring ­ corporatization, commercialization & human resource development support                        DFID
(1998-99)
Provide advise on reform strategy, preparation of transfer scheme, and commercial and agreements between unbundled
entities and areas of potential savings in utility operations.
Preparation of power sector financial restructuring plan to implement restructuring (1999-2001)                                  Bank PPF
Planning and technical interface support (1998-2001)                                                                             CIDA
Provide technical assistance for preparation of load forecast, generation planning and establishment of water management
cell in APGENCO, transmission planning, distribution planning, and preparation of methodology for system load loss
estimation.
Reform implementation and institutional development support to power companies (2000-03).                                        DFID
Discoms configuration and preparation of privatization strategy (2000-01)                                                        DFID
Preparation of distribution privatization strategy (2002)                                                                        DFID
Regulatory support to APERC (2000-2004)
(a) Provide advise on organization structure, staffing and operating processes and rules for establishment of APERC. Assist      APL1
the Commission in its initial functions including licensing, tariff order, etc. Provide training on key regulatory and economic
principles.
(b) Assist institutional development of APERC by providing support in the areas of drafting policies, guide- lines and           DFID
regulations that aid power sector development. Provide support for tariff review process. Training and capacity building of
the staff in key regulatory issues, including basic accounting and financial principles, engineering concepts relevant for sector
regulation, legal issues, and simulation models for tariff setting. Assistance for developing performance based multi-year
regulation.
Preparation of business plan for the power sector (2002-03)                                                                      DFID
Socio economic impact assessment of power sector reforms (2001)                                                                  DFID
The study provides an integrated and participatory framework for gathering, prioritizing, analyzing and incorporating social
information in the development and implementation of the reform program. Scope of work included primary survey/
stakeholder consultants to develop a baseline of the perception of power supply, availability, quality of supply and customer
service; identification of the perceived benefits and adverse impacts and evaluation of the social impact of the reform
measures.
Establishment of Energy billing and load research center (2001-03)                                                               DFID
Assist in conceptualizing, designing and providing implementation support for setting up an energy billing center (EBC).
Assistance for developing state-of-art metering and communication infrastructure that would form the basis for future energy
markets in the state. Development of wheeling and third party settlement system. Setting up five regional data collection
centers for collating information and down loading it to EBC using VSAT based communication system.
Feasibility study for implementation of multi-buyer model in Andhra Pradesh (2001-2002)                                          DFID
Review the options available for introduction of multi-buyer model by assessing the commercial, financial and technical
implications of each market model. Assess the implementation requirements for metering, regulation, legal issues and
staffing.
Review the design, Criteria, Quality, Assurance, and Certification of Benefits of APL1 Project                                   Bank
Comprehensive assessment of actual costs and benefits of APL1 schemes, appropriateness of the design criteria, and               (APL1)
compliance of requirements set for construction practices.
Assistance to the Task Force on subsidy delivery (2002-ongoing)                                                                  DFID
Assist the Task Force in assessing alternate mechanisms to deliver subsidy to the agriculture consumers. Assist in the design,
selection & monitoring of the pilots initiated to test alternate subsidy delivery mechanisms.
Estimation of sales to agriculture consumers (2002-03 ­ Ongoing)                                                                 CIDA and
Developing a sample based methodology for realistic estimation of electricity consumption by the agriculture consumers.          APL1
Assistance in meter reading over one year, developing software for data compilation (Agridatabase) and analysis.




                                                               - 52 -

Additional Annex 12. Transition Arrangements to Regular Operation

1. Implementation plan for Transmission Works to be completed after 31.08.2003
           Description                     Quantity    Progress as on Progress as         Expected      Amount Source of
                                          (Nos/kms /    31.08.2003      on 20.1.2004     Completion     required    funding
                                           MTonnes)    (% completed)          (%            time          (Rs          *
                                                                         completed)                     Million)   planned
 132/33 kV SS at Shamshbad                     1            40%               85%         March-04        8.63        PFC
 132/33 kV SS at Asifnagar                     1            90%               90%           Feb-04        2.50
 33kV features at 220kV Tadikonda              1            40%               60%         March-04        3.13        PFC
SS
220kV DC/SC Sivarampally to Krwan              9.5       Not started      Not started      July -04       9.27       PFC *
220kV XLPE line Krwan to Asifnagar             3.5       Not started      Not started      July- 04       10.15      PFC *
132 kV DC LILO to Shamshabad from              3.6       Foundation     Tower erection
Chandrayanagutta                                          completed       completed
Procurement of XLPE cable                      10                       Cable received     Mar-04         40.77      PFC *

Supply of Transmission towers              12535 MT      11138 MT         11417 MT        Short closed    19.76
                                                                                            Total          94


2. Implementation plan for Distribution Works to be completed after 31.08.2003
 Sl. No.             Description of works          Unit Unit     Quantity in         %     % progress as on  Expected date
                                                        Rate scope of works progress           31 Dec 03     of completion
                                                                                    as on
                                                                                31 Aug 03
      I     Refurbishment of distribution transformer structures
    1        Replaceing 200 Amps AB Switch         Nos. 0.0068       905             61.7          100
    2        Replacement of LAs (5kA)              Nos. 0.001       8250             81.1          100
    3        a) Rectification of earthing system   Nos. 0.005       1800             28.8         28.8
    4        b) Rectification of earthing system   Nos. 0.005       1825             100           100        June/July-04
    II      Installation of DTRs
    1        315 kVA Distribution Transformer      Nos. 0.327        182             56.0         78.0
    2        160 kVA Distribution Transformer      Nos. 0.210        654             62.7         76.6
    3        100 kVA Distribution Transformer      Nos. 0.155        455             51.8         78.0
    4        Associated 11kV lines                 Km   0.232        553             32.7         57.0
    5        Associated LT OH & UG line            Km   0.164        724             30.9         47.5        June/July-04
     III    Erection of additional distribution transformers for control of street lights
    1        100 kVA Distribution Transformer      Nos  0.155        192             85.0          100
    2        Associated 11kV OH &UG line           Km   0.232        95              88.4         88.4
    3        Associated LT OH & UG line            Km   0.164       86.5             74.6         89.0
     IV     Reconfiguration of loads for avoiding road crossings.
    1        11kV OH &UG line                      Km   0.232        139             82.0         89.0
    2        LT OH & UG line                       Km   0.929        62              64.5         64.5        June/July04

     V      Separation & bifurcation of bunched 11kV feeders
    1        33kV & 11 kV AB switches              Nos. 0.029        180             32.2         49.0
    2        11kV VCB with 11kV bay                Nos. 0.400        132             47.7         77.0
    3        11kV OH &UG line                      Km   1.457        97              75.2         78.4
    4        11kV Ring Main Units                  Nos. 0.177        50              100           100
    5        33kV VCB with 33kV bay                Nos. 0.609        16              62.5         87.5
    6        11kV Over Head line                   Km   0.232       117.5            39.8         57.0
    7        CMRIs                                 Nos. 0.200        10               0           0.00        June/July-04
    VI       Reconductoring of 11KV OH Line        Km   0.129        404             62.4         94.0        June/July-04




                                                        - 53 -

Additional Annex 13. Andhra Pradesh's Assessment of the Implementation of APL1

      (This note has been prepared by Andhra Pradesh as part of their contribution to this ICR)

1.       Introduction
Andhra Pradesh (`AP') is one of the few Indian states that have been implementing power sector reforms in
earnest. Post 1991-92, there was a deterioration in the financials of the sector primarily due to the adverse
change in hydro-thermal mix, steep increase in cost of power, shift in customer mix towards subsidized
categories, increase in supply to industrial users from captive units and third party and increase in
transmission and distribution losses, which led to the necessity of reforms. The objectives behind these
reforms, as stated in AP Electricity Act enacted in 1999 are given below: to (i) improve the financial
viability of the state's power sector (ii) effectively cater to the growing needs and demands of the
consumers efficiently and at and economic price, and (iii) facilitate growth in state's economy

These development objectives have been brought out clearly in the Project Appraisal Document and to be
implemented in the following four phases.
Phase-I: Establishment of a new legal , regulatory and institutional framework ,functional unbundling of
the system , corporatization of sector entities ,and removal of some of the most critical bottlenecks of the
power system(1999-2001),
Phase-II: Regulatory Commission and the corporate entities fully functional ,
privatization of part of the distribution business ,partial restoration of creditworthiness of the sector and
improvements in system efficiency (2001-2003),
Phase-III: Completion of privatization of distribution business ,consolidation of the functioning and
financial performance of the new power Utilities( 2003-2005) and
Phase-IV: Achievement of higher customer satisfaction through reduction of power deficit, attainment of
higher quality and efficiency in electricity services and deepening of power sector reforms to increase
competition and private participation(2005-2007).

The Phase-I of reforms has already been completed and Phase-II is under implementation. The first phase
of reforms focused on unbundling wherein, the Government of Andhra Pradesh (`GoAP') enacted the AP
Electricity Reform Act in 1999, set up the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (`APERC')
as an independent Regulatory commission, effected a two-stage unbundling of the vertically integrated
Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board (`APSEB'), and also enacted Anti- pilferage legislation providing
for very stiff penal measures (like imprisonment for a period of 3 months to 5 years and penalty ranging
from Rs. 5000 to 50,000 for those found guilty) as part of reform.
The second phase is under implementation over 3 years, focused on institutional strengthening of utilities,
in order to achieve operational efficiency improvement, through a set of specific ground level initiatives
aimed at loss reduction, revenue enhancement, institutional capacity building and information systems
development. The third phase of reforms involving completion of distribution privatization, consolidation of
financial performance of the power sector has now been initiated.

World Bank has been closely associated with the Reform & Restructure of A.P. Power sector to the
on-going power sector reforms since its initiation 1998. The Role of international/bilateral financing
agencies like Department for International Development (DfID) and Canadian International Development
Agency (`CIDA') has also been critical in facilitating reform program implementation and provision of
grant finance. To continue its support to the AP power sector reforms, World Bank agreed to provide both
financial assistance and technical assistance through Adaptable Program of Lending (`APL').




                                                       - 54 -

GoAP and the APERC have been supporting the implementation of reforms. As a result of the program, the
utilities are seeing a real gain, in terms of improved collections, reduction in commercial losses provision of
better customer service and improved organizational skills. As per CRISIL-INFAC survey, state of AP has
emerged as the leading state in terms of power sector reforms, specifically it has scored highest on
regulatory reforms.

2.        Reform implementation
Reform initiatives covered various facets across the entire value chain of the power sector and can be
broadly categorized into (a) structural (b) regulatory, (c) efficiency improvement comprising both
commercial and technical aspects across transmission and distribution, human resource development,
customer service and communication initiatives.

(a)       Structural reforms included unbundling, transfer of assets, liabilities and staff. The erstwhile
APSEB has been unbundled into APGENCO to manage power generation activity and APTRANSCO to
manage power transmission, sub-transmission and distribution activities, during March 1999.
APTRANSCO has restricted its activities to Transmission alone during the year 2000 with the formation of
four Distribution companies to cover the Distribution activity in the four regions in A.P.

(b)       Key components of regulatory reforms, primarily aimed at bringing in greater transparency and
system efficiency in the sector. This included establishing process and principles of tariff setting involving
public consultation facilitating prudent investments and moving towards recovery of full costs by the
Utilities, facilitating improvement in availability and quality of Utility information in public domain,
supporting implementation of reforms and focus on efficiency improvement and customer service by the
Utilities.

(c)       The commercialization of the Utilities was aimed at increasing operational efficiencies across
metering, billing and collection processes. The key components of commercial reforms include introduction
and streamlining of: performance management and reporting, management information systems, customer
management system, project planning and contract execution and critical inventories management, metering
and transaction processing system.

(d)       Technical reforms comprised initiatives, which were aimed at improving the investment planning
skills especially under the budget constraint scenario reducing T & D losses and in upgrading the
infrastructure and its maintenance so as to provide better quality of services to the consumers.

(e)       Human resource reforms initiatives included
l Institutionalizing performance management by introduction of key performance Indicators consisting of
     performance indicators for each Section and also for individual employees evaluated on the basis of the
     JOB charts prescribed and grading. These indicators would be used for determining the performance of
     the employees and award of incentives/ disincentives during each year.
l Facilitating capacity building specifically in finance, regulation and other areas. Capacity building is
     achieved by internalization of process and technology transfer by identifying counterpart teams of
     employees to work in association with the consultants in areas like commercial, regulatory and IT to
     develop requisite skills to independently attend to the functions over a period of time.
l Evolving effective organization structure by the Utilities (APGENCO, APTRANSCO and DISCOMs)
     based on their specific functional requirements by creation of exclusive functional heads to look after
     commercial, regulatory and IT related activities. The autonomy of the DISCOMs is enhanced by
     reconstitution of company Boards. Roles and responsibilities of employees in various positions
     unambiguously defined and accountability fixed at each level. Fresh talent is inducted at managerial


                                                      - 55 -

     levels through direct recruitment.

(f) Customer service and communication initiatives were also a part of the reforms to enhance the image
     and credibility of the utilities amongst its consumers.

2.1       Key reform achievements : Unbundling of erstwhile APSEB into transmission and distribution
utilities is one of the key reform achievements. The unbundling and the subsequent corporatization of the
utilities was carried out with intent to bring in greater transparency and focus in the functioning of
transmission and distribution segments. The unbundled utilities now function as separate professional
companies with independent boards having greater financial and administrative autonomy. Establishment of
AP Electricity Regulatory Commission (`APERC') is yet another key achievement of the reforms. This
marked the emergence of an independent regulatory entity in the power sector, one that is critical to ensure
efficient, economic and competitive development and management of the sector in order to aid and
encourage private sector participation. Efficiency improvements, is another key achievement of the reforms.
The gain in efficiencies across metering, billing and collection were realized through enactment of anti
power theft legislation, regularization of unauthorized connections, spot billing, establishment of customer
cells, improvement in the availability and flow of timely management information, etc.

Reforms have been carried along with an integrated process of communication and consultation with all
stakeholders. The communication strategy of GoAP has been to address the concerns of various
stakeholders through specially designed communication campaigns and disseminate them through a mix of
mass media options and communication modes. Among the various stakeholders, employees, customers and
decision-makers were recognized as the three most sensitive groups. Special efforts were taken to address
the concerns of these three groups. Communication campaigns were directed at educating the stakeholders
on the rationale, the objectives, the benefits and the implementation process of the reform program,
addressing their concerns and dispelling their misgivings regarding reform and restructuring.

2.2       Financial impact of reforms : The favorable financial impact of the reforms can be gauged
through the performance of DISCOMS on critical parameter like (i) improvement in cost recovery, (ii)
increase in revenue and collection efficiency (iii) proactive measures to improve HT industrial sales and
(iv) improvement in operational efficiency by reduction of losses.

The cost incurred per unit of energy has reduced from Rs. 3.32 in FY 2001 to Rs. 2.89 in FY2003 whereas
the revenue realized has increased from Rs.2.07 in FY2001 to Rs. 2.33 in FY2003. The HT consumers are
given priority for providing uninterrupted power supply. The proactive measures like introduction of
express feeders for HT industrial services to give uninterrupted supply and deployment of HT cells to
monitor breakdowns and to attend to their grievances at the earliest. Field Officers are identified to
continuously monitor individual industrial feeders and to attend to break downs in the minimum possible
time. The no. of break-down hours of the industrial EHT feeders is also being furnished to the Regulatory
Commission on monthly basis. All these measures have contributed in improving the HT metered sales by
21.78% during 2003 over the previous year.

Spot billing has been introduced across the state in a phased manner commencing from 01.01.2002 which
facilitates meter reading in the presence of the customer and issuing the bill then and there. This has
resulted in reduction the billing cycle and improvement in cash flows to the DISCOMs. The collections
have been better and have been increasing in the post reform phase. Similarly on the losses parameter, post
reforms the system losses have shown a decline. Improving the Energy Audit methodology and energy
accounting system by fixing interface meters and monitoring of power supply through Micro logic
controllers and ensure stipulated supply to agriculture and intensive inspection by DPE & Operation staff


                                                      - 56 -

and simplification of assessment process have yielded in assessment of the losses more accurately.


                 Collection performance by Discoms
                                                                                                     Losses trend

           7000.00                                               6622.49
                                                          6437.82            40.0%                                    37.4%

           6000.00                      5779.99
                                               5597.27                       35.0%                   32.5%
                                                                                                                          31.7%

           5000.00    4889.50
                             4657.61                                         30.0%                                            27.6%   26.8%26.9%

                                                                                                         24.9%

           4000.00                                                           25.0%                                                             22.8%
     Cr.                                                                            21.8%                    21.7%


                                                                             20.0%
        Rs.3000.00                                                                      17.9%17.3%


                                                                             15.0%
           2000.00
                                                                             10.0%

           1000.00
                                                                              5.0%


             0.00                                                             0.0%
                      1999-2000         2000-2001         2001-2002                    EPDCL            SPDCL            CPDCL           NPDCL

                                          Year                                                                Discom


                                    Demand       Collection                                          1999-00     2000-01    2001-02



2.3             Institutional development of the utilities is another key aspect of the reform. This has been
achieved through induction of fresh talent at the managerial levels in various key positions (Human
resource policy) like Human resources, corporate planning, information technology, costing, energy audit
and vigilance and conducting executive and manager development programs ( i.e. developing organization
structure by placing Zonal Training centers in the control of DISCOMs), establishing employee
communication channels through `Employee suggestion boxes'. The consultancy work funded by DFID
/CIDA has benefited in (i) assessment of agricultural consumption which is related to evaluation of
commercial losses (ii) filing of ARRs to the APERC (iii) introduction of key performance indicators and
implementation of grading system, (iv) use of Energy Management system for merit order dispatch,
improving the energy Audit methodology and energy accounting system by fixing interface meters (v)
improving information system by implementation of IT tools like PMRs/ TIMs/CAT (vi) To develop and
implement alternative subsidy delivery mechanism and (vii) Book consolidation module implementation.

3.              Need for the Project (APL-1) and its benefits
3.1             Need for the Project : In 1998, prior to the Project initiation, erstwhile APSEB was the sole
organization responsible for generation, transmission and distribution of Electrical energy in the state of
Andhra Pradesh. Phase prior to 1998, had seen a steep rise in the demand primarily driven through the
green revolution and the growing impetus for rural electrification. The increased demand had ramifications
in terms of unprecedented increase in load growth, extension in the rural LT network and rampant
pilferage. This has resulted in very low voltage at all levels and also an increase in the demand curtailment.
Such overloading of network was then causing frequent transformer failures, power supply interruptions
and an increase in technical and commercial losses beyond the permissible levels. To meet the growing
demand, erstwhile APSEB and GoAP had collectively embarked on upgrading power supply infrastructure
through small sized investments and efficiency improvement measures. However this seemed to be
inadequate as per studies conducted on the system, hence the need for the Project.

3.2             Project objectives : Project objectives were to support the on-going reform initiatives through
prudent investments with intent to provide better customer service, remove the critical bottlenecks in the
power transmission and distribution systems and to increase the sector revenue. The Project cost is
Rs.12000 million funded by World Bank (main funding), PFC (counter part funding) and unbundled
utilities during the period 1998-99 to 2003-04. World Bank has provided Rs. 8,100 million to fund the



                                                                            - 57 -

Project. The key objectives of the Project are given as below:
l Improvement in the power system conditions
         -        Strengthening the Transmission and Distribution power network by providing new
                  sub-stations/Lines/Transformers
         -        Augmenting the existing line/Transformer capacity to increase capacity of the system to
                  handle more power
         -        Re-configuration of sub-transmission & Distribution networks
         -        Improving the communication system in the network by providing fixed/Mobile and
                  Walkie Talkie VHF sets,
         -        Improving customer metering by installing high quality electronic meters
l Greater accountability for energy
         -        Conducting energy audits
         -        Installing high quality electronic meters for high value customers,
         -        Boundary metering
         -        Feeder metering
         -        LV side metering of DTRs feeding agricultural loads segregating bunched feeders by
                  providing additional switchgear
l Increase in revenues
         -        Providing high quality Electronic meters for high consumption consumers,
         -        Improving metering, billing and collection
         -        Providing MRIs, computer systems and improving data processing and MIS
         -        Providing tamper proof meters to avoid theft of energy
l Improvement in quality of supply to consumers
         -        Reducing the Distribution transformer failure rate
         -        Maintaining better voltage profile
         -        Reducing consumer complaints due to providing accurate metering and billing
         -        Reducing interruptions by scheduled O&M and timely attending to complaints

3.3      Lending details : The Government of India had signed with the World Bank on 5th March'99 for
a Project loan of USD 210 million. The Project was to be implemented during the period of 1999 to August
2003 in-order to strengthen the transmission, sub-transmission and distribution networks. It may be noted
that after sanctioning of the World Bank loan and subsequent progress in reform implementation in the
power sector the credit worthiness of the power sector Utilities in the state of Andhra Pradesh has improved
and now many financial institutions have come forward to support the on-going power sector reforms. The
cumulative funding by such financial institutions in the last 4 years has been to the tune of Rs.35,496
million (approximately) which contributed proportionately to the overall benefits realized during this
period. The investment details under the APL-1 project are given below in the Table below.

       Funding Agency             Transmission sector           Distribution sector           Total
          World Bank                      3083                         5036                    8120
             PFC                           529                         405                     934
      Transco & Discoms                    722                         2210                    2932
             Total                        4334                         7651                   11985


3.4      Investments in the transmission network : For strengthening the transmission network the
following have been taken up at a total estimate of about Rs. 4334 million. The Project was implemented in
two clusters-the first group(APL1-main) and the second group (APL1-Supplemental) To implement the
Project, 41 international bids (packages) were invited and 80 purchase orders were placed for procuring
equipment like power transformers, conductors, steel materials etc. and 26 works packages invited and 76



                                                     - 58 -

works contracts were awarded. Status of project as on 31-08-2003 is as provided below. The balance
works are expected to be completed by July 2004. The works carried are as below.

Transmission system
                                                           Target          Achievement
220kV lines (CKM)                                          1019                    1006
132 kV lines (CKM)                                         1309                    1299
220 kV Substations .- 100MVA (Nos)                            9                        9
132 kV substations .- 50 MVA(Nos.)                           18                       15
Capacitor Banks ( MVAR)                                           410                         410
Augmentation of 220 kV Transformer Capacity (nos)                     9                         9
Augmentation of 132 kV Transformer Capacity (nos)                     7                         7
Boundary metering                                          299                     (Deferred in view of the
Electricity Act 2003 provisions)

      Description of work                    APL-1 (main)                           APL-1 (suppl.)
             Goods                           100% completed                         96% completed
             Works                           100% completed                         92% completed


3.5      Investments in sub-transmission and distribution network and metering: For strengthening the
sub transmission and distribution network investment of about Rs.7000 million was approved. To
implement the Project, 44 (packages) international bids were invited and 86 purchase orders were placed
for procuring equipment like distribution transformers, conductors, switchgear, meters, computers etc. and
39 works contracts were awarded. Status of project as on 31-08-2003, compared to the targeted is provided
in Table 5. Out of the investment of 5034.5 Millions of the loan amount , Rs.1250 Millions has been
invested for providing Electronic metering to industrial, commercial and high value domestic consumers to
record accurate consumption of energy which has resulted in increase in billing and revenue by about 10%.
The works carried out are as below.

Sub-Transmission & Distribution system
3 phase distribution transformers(Nos.)           6440            6440
Single Phase distribution transformers(Nos.)               10000           10000
Augmentation of power transformer
capacity with protection (MVA)                    1186            1186
New 33 kV,11 kV & LT lines (km)                            2679            1913 (all required material have
been received)
Better customer metering for industrial commercial
and domestic services & energy audit Nos.)        466000          466000
Provision of VHF equipment and computers          100%

          Description of work                    APL-1 (main)                       APL-1 (suppl.)
                 Goods                              100%                                 98%
                 Works                              100%                                 86%
The balance works are expected to be completed by July 2004.

3.6      Implementation arrangements for APL-1 project : Keeping the urgent need for investments in
the power sector in view , APSEB has initiated the project work related to preparation of the bidding
documents for procurement of materials during July,1998 itself i.e. much before the World Bank loan was
signed . Most of the tenders for procurement of materials were finalized by APSEB by February, 1999 end
and the contracts were awarded during March 1999. Chief Engineers/Transmission, P&MM and Telecom
were the project implementing officers at Head Quarters of APSEB. Some of the works contracts were



                                                    - 59 -

awarded during July 1999 for the first cluster of works. The advance action has yielded good performance
to begin with. The Project Monitoring Unit (PMU) members have been identified by APTRANSCO and the
DISCOMs and the staff were provided training in World Bank procurement practices at MDI and ASCI.
Further two engineers from each DISCOM were made to work along with the PMU staff (for a short
period) at APTRANSCO to acquaint with the procedures being followed by the PMU to meet the future
requirements of DISCOMs.

3.7      Key benefits - transmission : The main benefits derived due to the implementation of the project
on transmission sector include reduction in losses, higher availability, better voltage profile and fewer
network breakdowns. As per the Administrative staff college of India (ASCI), the list of benefits of
investment in transmission is provided in the table below.

Key benefits - transmission
 Item                                            As per Project report (APL-1 Main) As per ASCI study (APL-1 Main)
 Reduction in power loss                                     58.16 MW                          75 MW
 Reduction in energy loss                                   208.87 MU                          306 MU
 Additional power available for future loads                  478 MW                          478 MW


Other benefits due to the Project are the substantial improvement in the voltage profile, greater availability
of the transmission network and successful implementation of the GIS based Transmission Network
Maintenance Management System (TNMMS), which is first of its kinds in India.

3.7      Key benefits - distribution : As per ASCI study, benefits from Project exceed projected levels as
mentioned in the project report in terms of reduction in losses, saving due to reduction in transformer
failures and increased sale of energy due to availability of additional transformers and ensuring better
quality power metering. It is difficult to verify the reduction in the LT line losses. Since all the 5000
distribution transformers have been installed, the LT loss reduction would be in the same order as estimated
in the project report. Since all the power transformers are provided it facilitates to connect additional loads,
thereby additional energy sales, the augmentation also reduced interruptions due to tripping of the
overloaded transformer. The additional circuit breakers provided for individual control of transformers and
feeders resulted in reduced outages and better protection for transformers and improved reliability of
supply. The consumption prior to and after the installation of new meters has shown an increase of
5%-20% range. comparison of consumption after removal of old meters are retained for purpose of
comparison and the increase is in the order of over 10%.

3.8      Key benefits cumulative at sector level : At aggregate level the sector showed improvements in
key performance parameters like investments, capacity addition, revenue and energy losses. Power losses in
113 cities have been brought down to below 10% due to comprehensive energy audit program and
concerted effort to curb theft and pilferage of energy. Metering billing and collection efficiency has been
improved through technology solutions including Consumer analysis tool (`CAT'). Performance of the
network has also been improved through technological up-gradations including VSAT networking and
SCADA in cutting down the time of attending to a fault. Improvement in quality of power supply has also
largely been appreciated by the consumers of the DISCOMS.




                                                       - 60 -

                  1600                                     1451               1200                                      1087
                  1400
                                                                              1000
                  1200                       911    978
                  1000                                                        800  609
                                    613                                                   501
   Crores          800                                                        600
                                                                     MW                                          477

         Rs.       600
                             292
                       267                                                    400
                   400                                                                                    170
                                                                                                 68.5
                   200                                                        200


                     0                                                          0
                       96-97 97-98  98-99 99-00  00-01   01-02                     96-97  97-98 98-99  99-00  00-01  01-02

                       PreReforms              PostReforms                           PreReforms              PostReforms


                  7000                                  6622                  39                38     36.9

                                                 5597
                  6000                                                        37
                                          4657
                                                                                                              33.9
                  5000      4030   4159                                       35         33

                                                                                  32
                  40003296                                                    33

            Crores3000                                                        31                                     29.6
                                                                       Percent
            Rs.2000                                                           29

                  1000                                                        27

                    0                                                         25
                      96-97  97-98 98-99 99-00  00-01  01-02                      96-97  97-98 98-99  99-00  00-01  01-02

                          PreReforms          PostReforms                              PreReforms          PostReforms


3.9                    Social and environment : Adequate stress has been given to address social and environmental
aspects related to the Project. APTRANSCO is one of the few utilities in the country to adopt corporate
environmental & social policy. Environmental and Social safeguards were integrated at planning stage.
Environmental norms have been prescribed for equipment. Apart from evolving the Environmental
Management Plan (EMPs), Rehabilitation Action Plan (RAP) and establishment of exclusive
Environmental & Social Management Unit to oversee the implementation of the above plans. Initiatives
within the social and environment include (i) providing appropriate resettlement, crop damage
compensation where necessary, in the minimum time Minimize the damage to habitat (ii) installing and
training the personnel in safety and fire fighting equipment (iii) cultivate plantations in sub-stations and (iv)
use best practices in handling hazardous chemicals

4.                     Role of World Bank and co-financers
The successful implementation of the Project would not have been possible, without the continuous
advisory support from the World Bank and co-financers. Guidance, project monitoring and supervision
provided by World Bank and co-financers experts were critical in the implementation and in objectively
reviewing bottlenecks. However, it is widely felt that a greater degree of flexibility in matters relating to
certain procurement issues like fixing of qualification requirements, package/lot size of the materials being
procured, negotiations with qualified erection contractors etc., would have resulted in avoiding of
unnecessary delays and cost saving. The collective wisdom of the implementing agency, acquired in the
course of long and intimate association in the execution of similar works and the intuitive knowledge of the
organization about the practical difficulties faced in the execution/operation & maintenance should receive
due consideration. To that extent necessary modifications must be incorporated in the World Bank's
implementation guidelines to allow deviation from procedures, which would result considerable tangible
benefit to the borrower.



                                                                   - 61 -

5.       Government / Utility support
The Government of Andhra Pradesh has played an exemplary role in ushering in the power sector reforms
in the state and in steadfastly supporting it during the initial stages in the face of severe resistance to the
reforms both by the employees and the public. The government has also played a very pro-active role
throughout the implementation of the reform program and was intimately involved in it by adopting an
hands-on approach. GOAP has provided support in (i) financial restructuring by taking over liabilities at
the time of unbundling (ii) provided timely subsidy, (iii) Introduction of anti-theft legislation and by
providing support of the police department for theft control, (iv) noninterference in utility's day-to-day
management in areas like theft control, revenue collection, disconnection etc. (v) regular monitoring of
utility performance and push for efficiency improvements, (vi) passing Bank's money generally on time.

The list provided below relates to the measures adopted by the Utility.
l Reduction of technical losses, transformers failures, interruptions by providing necessary infrastructure
     immediately needed
l Restrictions and controls over release of new Agricultural service connections,
l Restrictions and control of supply hours to Agricultural sector and round the clock load management
l Energy audit and assessment of agricultural consumption and realistic losses,
l Drive on replacement of defective and burnt meters
l Vigilance & control of theft by providing special theft squads
l Identification of areas of rampant theft and corrective measures
l Sealing of all meters
l Accountability and compulsory check of all services, with targets at various levels
l Introducing better metering and billing practices with accountability at various levels
l Realization of billed energy and arrears with special drives


These initiatives have facilitated reduction in GoAP subsidy as shown below
        GoAP Support & Subsidy for the last 7 years
                                3064           3005                                Rs crores
3000                                   2935

                                                               GoAP Subsidy as

2500                                                           per APERC Tariff
                                                                     Orders
                       2074
2000                                                   1882
                                                                         Business Plan
                                              1562                       Assumption
                                                        1509    1513
1500                                                                    1414
               1256                      1345                                  Net revenue Gap

1000    850                                                                      833

                                                                                         504
 500



   0
        FY 97  FY 98   FY 99   FY 00  FY 01    FY 02   FY 03    FY 04   FY 05   FY 06   FY 07


6.       Learnings
Key learnings from the on-going reforms are as given below:



                                                      - 62 -

l Strong reform champions needed at Govt. and Utility,
l Communication (both internal and external) is key to create awareness and generate support for the
    reforms process,
l Employee participation goes a long way in ensuring smooth implementation,
l Regulator must be kept informed and involved so as to drive the process in the right direction,
l There are no shortcuts or short-term solutions to the problems,
l Government needs to provide financial support/ guarantees during the transition period.


Specifically, learnings from the Project are:
l Hard decisions early in the process will reduce initial difficult period of reform process,
l Availability of required land and right of way has to be ensured before invitation for bids is issued,
l Provision for crop compensation must be separately provided for immediate disbursement with
    minimum inconvenience to the project affected persons,
l The procurement of materials and erection of works need to be synchronized to minimize inventory pile
    up,
l Erection of transmission lines and corresponding substations must be synchronized to complete
    simultaneously to avail their benefit as and when they are completed,
l Procurement of critical high value items must be done in more lots to minimize disruption of works due
    to supply failure,
l The technical specification and the qualification requirements is to be made as objective as possible to
    eliminate any ambiguity that may cause delay in bid evaluation,
l In the monitoring of the project progress adequate attention has to be given to financial aspects like
    availability of funds (in the absence of L/C limits) to pay to the contractors in time which may prune
    the delay in project execution time,
l The implementation completion report data requirements must be communicated at the beginning of the
    project itself so that necessary data can be collected regularly during the project execution to avoid
    delays in obtaining the data towards the end of the project,
l Procedural formalities involving too many agencies (World Bank (USA/ India),
    GOI(DEA,MOF,CAAA),RBI, GoAP (Energy, Finance/Treasury Depts.) etc. in the process of drawal
    of funds/reimbursement of claims has caused delays of more than 10 to 12 weeks in arranging
    payments for goods/works in spite of overdraft facilities availed by APTRANSCO,
l The initial authorized allocation of US $ 8.0 Millions was not sufficient and needs to be increased for
    effective implementation of the project.

7.      Way forward
Next stage of the reforms is proposed to be coordinated by GoAP and would cover APERC, TRANSCO
and DISCOMS. This phase would also include the unbundling of the Transmission company to separate
trading and transmission functions. Providing open access of the Transmission lines to the new entrants in
the generation sector there by encouraging private power producers to invest in the sector. Providing
administrative, operational and financial autonomy to DISCOMs to facilitate management of their own
cash, raising of funds, to decide on priority in areas of expenditure and manage their own treasury function.
To plan improvement in cost recovery and phasing out dependence on government subsidy will constitute
the principle thrust of the next phase of reforms. The other key areas of reform are (i) introduction of Long
Term Tariff Principles, (ii) implementation of alternative subsidy delivery mechanism based on the results
of the three on-going pilot projects and (iii) privatization of distribution in a phased manner.




                                                      - 63 -

- 64 -

