Report No. PID6603
Project Name                     India-Andhra Pradesh Power Sector (@+) ...
Restructuring Project
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Energy
Project ID                       INPE49537
Borrower                         Government of India
Loan Amount                      US $ 210 million
Implementing agency              1. Transmission Corporation of Andhra
Pradesh (APTRANSCO)
2. Andhra Pradesh Generation Company
(APGENCO)
Date this PID prepared           January 31, 1999
Project Appraisal date           October 1998
Project Board date               February 18, 1999
Background
1.      With a population of 72 million, Andhra Pradesh (AP) is one of India's
largest states. Despite a rich resource base, the state's economic and social
development has been substantially below its potential. In the last ten years
its annual growth rate of 4.6 percent in gross state domestic product has been
lower than the national average of 5.6 percent. Most social development
indicators in Andhra Pradesh are below the national average. Infant mortality
rate is 73 per thousand of births. Population below the poverty line is
almost 30 percent. Malnutrition among children aged 0-6 years is estimated at
about 30 percent. The literacy rate is only 44 percent, significantly lower
than the national average. At 33 percent, the female literacy rate is one of
the country's lowest. The poor health and educational status of the
population is largely explained by declining budgetary allocations for these
services. From FY1987 to FY1998, total combined public expenditure on health
and education declined from 4.7 percent of state's gross domestic product to
3.6 percent.
2.      Development expenditure in Andhra Pradesh has been crowded out in the
last 15 years by costly and poorly targeted subsidies, by a rapidly expanding
civil service and by interest payments. As a result, critical public spending
on social development and on the maintenance of the essential irrigation and
road networks has fallen far short of the state's needs. Power sector
development has not kept up with demand and constrains economic activity and
burdens the state finances. These are some of the major reasons for the low
level of social development in the state, the high incidence of poverty and
the relatively slow rate of economic growth. Due to low tariffs and
consequential need for subsidizing it, Andhra's power sector has imposed a
heavy burden on the State's finances; in 1997 power subsidies amounted to 1.6w
of GSDP and 46t of the fiscal deficit of the state.
3.      The Government of Andhra Pradesh is aware of these issues and has
launched a comprehensive program of economic and structural reforms to address



them, to accelerate economic growth in the state and to increase the capacity
to finance much-needed human development in the longer term. Power sector
reform is the focus of the proposed Andhra Pradesh Power Sector Restructuring
Program. A parallel operation, the Andhra Pradesh Economic Restructuring
Project (APERP, for which Ln. 4360 and Cr. 3103-IN were approved on June 25,
1998) provides resources to meet immediate priority needs in human development
(nutrition, primary health and primary education) and in the maintenance of
economic assets affecting the rural poor (irrigation, rural roads and core
access roads). These investments are linked to a program of fiscal reforms
aimed at bringing about a permanent shift in public expenditure and debt.
4.      Andhra's power sector has deteriorated in the last few years and is now
in a critical physical and financial situation, which affects the economic
growth of the state and the welfare of its people. Though operational
efficiency of the generation plants of Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board
(APSEB) compares well with the international standards, the energy deficit of
about 13t and peak demand deficit of about 23t in the state, is one of the
worst in India. Electricity sales to agriculture sector is heavily subsidized.
Due to un-remunerative tariffs, high level of technical and non-technical
losses (estimated at a minimum of 33%), relative neglect of investment in
transmission and distribution systems, and inadequate maintenance of system, a
comparatively well performing utility has become near bankrupt and is unable
to provide quality supply and efficient service to its customers.
5.      The Andhra Pradesh is convinced that the State's power requirements
cannot be met without a massive mobilization of private financing; restoration
of creditworthiness of the power utilities; and establishment of a proper
enabling environment, including a legal and regulatory framework. To meet this
goal the Government of Andhra Pradesh intends to reform and restructure its
power sector, have commercially operated and privately owned utilities
functioning in a competitive environment and withdraw itself from the sector
as an owner, operator, and regulator of the utilities. The Bank plans to
support Andhra in implementing its power sector reform program, and a long
term investment program through an adaptable program lending (APL) comprising
a series of loans, to an extent of US$1 billion. Each of these loans shall be
linked to achievement of agreed milestones, and shall finance successive
investment projects in transmission and distribution.
Program and Project Objectives
6.      The proposed Andhra Pradesh Power Sector Restructuring Program has two
directly inter-linked development objectives:
ni      The reform of the power sector is the single most important element of
structural and fiscal reform in Andhra Pradesh. The underlying broader
development objective of the Andhra Pradesh Power Sector Restructuring Program
is to bring about a permanent shift in public expenditure in the power sector,
from a major drain on the budget to a contributor of funds for social sectors
and other priority areas for public investment. This fiscal dimension links
the Program to the broader APERP. Taken together, APERP and the proposed
Andhra Pradesh Power Sector Restructuring Program would make a major
contribution to modernizing the state's infrastructure and social sectors, and
they would be fundamental to the restructuring of the state's finances and for
the acceleration of economic growth and longer term human development.
- 2 -



ni      Andhra Pradesh's power sector has deteriorated in the past several years
and is now in a critical physical and financial situation, which constrains
the economic growth of the state and affects the welfare of its population.
The power sector-specific development objective of the Andhra Pradesh Power
Sector Restructuring Program is to ensure that, by FY2007 the energy
requirements of the state are met, and that consumers are provided with
reliable, high-quality and cost-effective electricity supply by creditworthy
and commercially-operated power utilities, functioning in a competitive and
appropriately regulated power market, with significant private ownership and
participation.
7.      The development objective of the Project i.e. First Andhra Pradesh Power
Sector Restructuring Project (APL1), is to initiate (i) the reform process by
establishing the new legal, regulatory, institutional framework, and industry
structure (including the creation of an independent Regulatory Commission,
unbundling of APSEB into new generation, transmission and distribution
companies), (ii) the preparatory work for privatization of the distribution
business, and (iii) removal of the most critical bottlenecks of the power
system with a view to demonstrate the benefits - though on a limited scale
initially - which could be expected from the power sector reforms.
Program and Project Description
8.      The Reform Program consists of (a) functional separation by unbundling
the vertically integrated APSEB into generation, transmission, and
distribution companies, (b) independent regulation by creating an independent
and autonomous Regulatory Commission following the effectiveness of the new
Andhra Pradesh Electricity Reform Act (notified on October 29, 1998), (c)
corporatization and commercialization of the new entities in the power sector,
and (d) privatization of distribution business and private sector
participation in new generation, leveraging its generation assets through
joint ventures, and dis-investment in other business. Andhra Pradesh's long
term Investment Program will focus on rehabilitation and expansion of
transmission, sub-transmission and distribution system, implementation of
demand side management measures and technical assistance to support Andhra's
power sector entities in implementing reform program,
9.      The Project will help   initiate the reform process and is expected to
part finance critically needed transmission system augmentation, sub-
transmission and distribution system rehabilitation and strengthening,
improvement of metering system, implementation of demand side management
measures, and technical assistance to the new companies.
Project Cost and Financing
10.     Total estimated cost of the project is about US $ 576 million. The
proposed Bank loan is expected to finance about US$ 210 million; Andhra
government about US$ 128 million, co-financing to an amount of about US$ 73
million by DFID and CIDA and financing by other financial institutions to an
amount of US$ 165 million.
Project Implementation
11.     The project will be implemented over a four year time period (1999-2003).
However the reform program and the related long-term investment program would
-3 -



be implemented over a period of about ten years. The project would be
implemented by APSEB's successor entities -- APTRANSCO, APGENCO and
distribution companies. A Steering Committee, for policy direction, chaired by
the Chief Secretary, a Task Force chaired by Secretary (Energy) for
operationalizing the policy decisions, and a Reform Project Management Group
headed by a Chief Engineer, for preparation, co-ordination and management of
the reform program have been put in place for the program and project
implementation.
Project Sustainability
12.     By implementing the proposed reform agenda, Andhra Pradesh can make its
utilities commercially viable and mobilize resources to finance the
rehabilitation and expansion of its power system. Investments will not only
contribute to reducing the power gap, but will also create the basis for
sustainable future growth of the system. This will benefit all electricity
consumers. Andhra Pradesh expects that the State's improved power supply
position would contribute to attracting additional investment and encourage
existing industries to expand their production facilities. The proposed
project will facilitate the execution of the reform program. Even if the next
phases of the program were not to take place the project would lead, under
reasonable assumptions, to durable reduction in physical system bottlenecks
and therefore efficiency improvements, albeit limited to a small part of the
power system.
13.     The reform in the power sector is critical to structural and fiscal
reform in the state. In the absence of power sector reform, the power sector
would continue to burden public finances, in fact the need for investment
support and subsidies would continue to grow. During the transition period,
the Government will try to keep the impact of its financial support on the
budget to the minimum, moderate the impact on the social sector and raise the
bulk of funds through commercial approaches and market-based instruments. The
Government recognizes the possibility of its adverse effect on the socially
more desirable expenditure in the short term. However, in the long term a
reformed power sector shall become a net contributor to the state's resources
and help create more fiscal space in the budget to support higher levels of
social sector investment.
Participation
14.     To ensure the sustainability of the reform program, Andhra has developed
the reform program with the involvement and participation of various
stakeholders. A comprehensive communication program has been launched by GoAP
and APSEB to address the concerns of various stakeholders and build public
support for the reform process. A large number of booklets, leaflets, and
documents have been published and widely disseminated; both print and
electronic media has been used extensively to communicate. The strategy and
the reform program has been discussed with the labor unions and employee
associations, who went on strike twice during 1997 but have finally reached an
agreement with the government. A well attended meeting with the state and
national level NGOs was held by Andhra in October 1997 and then in October
1998. For greater participation of staff, Andhra has recently launched a
newsletter, held workshops for enhancing awareness and established a mechanism
of regular feedback.
-4-



Lessons learned from the past Operations
15.     During the 1980s and early 1990s, the Bank Group's strategy in power
focused on: (a) extensive support to Central Government owned agencies; (b)
financing SEBs; and (c) financing existing private power utilities and
encouraging the Government to lower entry barriers for new investors. The
success of this strategy was uneven. The lessons learnt suggest that the
strategy of state led sectoral expansion was no longer appropriate, in the
Indian context. The experience indicates that autonomy of the management of
government owned enterprises is constrained because of ownership by the
government rather than the legal impediments. The management processes are
affected by political interference in day to day operations of the state
utilities. These lessons led to: (a) the design of the current state power
sector reform program, including the promotion of privatization of
distribution; and (b) the development of NTPC's and POWERGRID's investment and
commercial policies. In Andhra Pradesh, ADB through its financing for
Rayalaseema thermal project in 1989 and PFC (financed by both the World Bank
and ADB) through its Operational and Financial Action Plan (OFAP) between 1989
and 1997 attempted revitalization of APSEB but could not stop its rapid
decline into insolvency. Thus, for a sustainable solution to the sector's
problems implementation of a comprehensive reform and restructuring program is
critical. In the last five years power sector reforms were launched by Orissa
and Haryana. In Orissa the Regulatory Commission has been in operation for
about three years, has issued licenses, decided two tariff revisions through a
process of public hearings and wide consultations, which have been accepted by
the stakeholders as just and fair. The Government of Orissa has sold 49t of
equity in its thermal generation company and is in the advanced stages of bid
evaluation for privatization of entire distribution system in the state.
Similarly in Haryana the Regulatory Commission, though established recently,
is in the process of setting its regulation, tariff procedures, and is
conducting hearings for license applications. These developments have
encouraged other states to consider launching power sector reforms.
Environmental and Social Aspects
16.     As the project supports investments in strengthening and expansion of and
transmission and distribution systems, no major environmental issues are
perceived. Power generation is not a part of the project and most of the new
generation will be by private sector, which will also follow the GoI
environmental standards. The project is expected to have an overall positive
environmental impact through improved efficiency in supply and demand side
management. The design of lines and substations will incorporate safety
features, and their route/location will be defined to minimize any adverse
environmental impact. APSEB has prepared an environmental policy as apart of
"Environmental Framework and Safeguards for Transmission Projects" which
will govern all the APLs. APSEB has also prepared an Environmental Mitigation
Plan (EMP), in conformity with the Bank standards, for mitigation of adverse
environmental impacts of investments under APL1. EMPs will also be prepared
for investment projects under subsequent APLs.
17.     There are no major displacement and resettlement issues and the impact of
investments under the project on land acquisition is minimal. GoAP has
approved a Social Policy and Procedures (SP&P) including an entitlement
framework to address the adverse impacts associated with land acquisition and
loss of other assets in implementing investment projects in the power sector
- 5 -



(irrespective of the source of financing). A detailed Resettlement Action Plan
(RAP) has been prepared by APSEB for schemes under the first Project, which
has been reviewed by the Bank and found to be satisfactory.
Impact on the Poor
18.     The reform program would help the poor by freeing up state funding for
higher priority use in the social sectors - the reform in the power sector is
the single most important aspect of structural and fiscal reform in the state.
Most importantly, by improving the power supply, the program will eliminate
one of the most serious constraints to higher economic growth. Andhra Pradesh
is a poor state even in the Indian context and poverty is widespread. In the
long term, its eradication is fundamentally dependent on growth and
employment, the state's direct poverty alleviation interventions
notwithstanding. These indirect impacts are regarded to be more important in
Andhra Pradesh, where connection rates are still low, in rural areas well
below 20 percent of households, and the poor typically do not have a power
connection. It must be recognized that as a consequence of restoration of
creditworthiness of the entities the investments that would actually get
implemented on the ground are likely to far exceed what APSEB would have been
able to execute without reforms. The key contribution of power reform to the
poor is to lift the burden the power sector has placed on the state government
finances (which mostly these poor indirectly have to bear) and simultaneously
remove the power supply bottleneck to economic activity and growth.
19.     The main direct poverty consideration of the Program and the proposed
project is related to electricity pricing. While Andhra's electricity pricing
policy emphasizes cost recovery, the utilities would continue to provide low-
cost (lifeline) rates for poor electricity consumers to ensure that service
for basic household uses of electricity remains affordable.
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
J. Parthasarthy
Chairman, APSEB
Vidyud Soudha
Hyderabad, India
Tel. 91 11 339 1174
Fax. 91 11 331 7663
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 26, 1999.
- 6 -



