Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4441 IN
Loan Agreement
(Andhra Pradesh Power Sector Restructuring  Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 5, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4441 IN 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 5, 1999, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated November 12, 1998, from the 
State of Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Pradesh) enclosing a detailed policy statement 
approved by Andhra Pradesh designed to restructure, reform and develop the power 
sector in Andhra Pradesh (hereinafter the Reform Program or Program) and declaring 
Andhra Pradesh’s commitment to the execution of such Program; 
(B)
the Borrower has requested that the Bank support Andhra Pradesh’s 
execution of the Reform Program through a series of loans over a period of 
approximately ten years to be utilized by the Borrower for assisting Andhra Pradesh in 
implementing such Program; 
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms the 
first phase of the Reform Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing 
of the Project;
(D)
the Project will be carried out by the Transmission Corporation of Andhra 
Pradesh Limited (APTRANSCO) and Andhra Pradesh Power Generation Corporation Limited 
(APGENCO) with the Borrower’s and Andhra Pradesh’s assistance; and 
Page  2
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower in support of the first phase of the Reform Program 
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, in the Andhra Pradesh 
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Andhra Pradesh, and the 
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the APTRANSCO and 
APGENCO. 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Andhra Pradesh” means the State of Andhra Pradesh, a State of India, and 
includes any successor thereto; 
(b)
“Andhra Pradesh Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank 
and State of Andhra Pradesh of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Andhra Pradesh Project Agreement; 
(c)
“APSEB” means the Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board established 
under the provisions of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, of India as amended to the 
date of this Agreement;
(d)
“APGENCO” means the Andhra Pradesh Power Generation Company, a company 
registered under the Indian Companies Act, 1956 for the purpose of engaging in the 
business of generation and bulk supply of electricity; 
(e)
“APTRANSCO” means the Transmission Corporation of Andhra Pradesh Limited, 
a company incorporated under the Indian Companies Act, 1956, as amended, for the 
purpose of engaging in the business of procurement, transmission, and supply of 
electric energy in accordance with the Reform Act; 
(f)
“Distribution Companies” means companies incorporated under the Indian 
Companies Act, 1956, as amended, and established by APTRANSCO as set out in Section 
2.06 of the Project Agreement; each such company is individually referred to as a 
“Distribution Company”;
(g)
“Electricity Act” means the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 of the 
Borrower, as amended from time to time; (
(h)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(i)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(j)
“Environmental Framework and Safeguards for Transmission Projects” means 
the document of that name dated November 6, 1998 prepared by APSEB and adopted by 
APTRANSCO, and satisfactory to the Bank, for dealing with adverse environmental 
aspects resulting from implementing transmission projects; 
(k)
“Environment Management Plan” or “EMP” means the plan dated November 6, 
1998, prepared by APSEB and adopted for implementation by APTRANSCO, and any further 
EMP prepared by APTRANSCO, satisfactory to the Bank, for dealing with the adverse 
Page  3
environmental impacts resulting from implementing the Project; 
(l)
“Financial Commitment Letter” means the letter dated January 4, 1999 
setting out the financial support that Andhra Pradesh will provide to APTRANSCO,  
APGENCO and Distribution Companies pursuant to the provisions of the Financial 
Restructuring Plan attached to such Letter; 
(m)
“Financial Restructuring Plan” means the Plan of Andhra Pradesh attached 
to the Financial Commitment Letter for the purpose of ensuring that APTRANSCO, APGENCO 
and Distribution Companies achieve the financial and operational targets set out in 
such Plan;
(n)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Fiscal Year of the Borrower, Andhra 
Pradesh, APTRANSCO and APGENCO beginning on April 1 of a calendar year and ending on 
March 31 of the following calendar year; 
(o)
“Indian Rupee” and “Rs” mean the currency of the Borrower; 
(p)
“Investment Plan” means the investment measures included in the Project 
Implementation Plan furnished to the Bank by Andhra Pradesh on January 10, 1999; 
(q)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and APTRANSCO 
and APGENCO of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(r)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 3.02 of the Andhra Pradesh Project Agreement and Section 4.02 of the Project 
Agreement; 
(s)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letter dated \0bDecember 
17, 1997 between the Borrower and the Bank;
(t)
“Reform Act” means the Andhra Pradesh  Electricity Reform Act, 1998 
providing, inter alia, for restructuring of the electricity industry, rationalization 
of the generation, transmission, distribution and supply of electricity, private 
sector participation in the electricity industry, and the adoption of measures for the 
development and management of the electricity industry, as the provisions of this 
Reform Act may be amended from time to time;
(u)
“Regulatory Commission” means the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory 
Commission established by Andhra Pradesh under the Reform Act as referred to in 
Section 2.02 (e) of the Andhra Pradesh Project Agreement;
(v)
“Resettlement Action Plan or “RAP” means the plan dated November 6, 1998, 
prepared by APSEB and adopted for implementation by APTRANSCO, and any further RAP 
prepared by APTRANSCO, satisfactory to the Bank, for dealing with the resettlement and 
rehabilitation of people displaced or affected as a result of implementation of the 
Project;
(w)
“Social Policies and Procedures” means the Social Policies and Procedures 
dated November 3, 1998, prepared by APSEB and adopted by APTRANSCO, and satisfactory 
to the Bank, for dealing with the social and land acquisition aspects of the Project;
(x)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(y)
“Subloan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
APTRANSCO and Distribution Companies pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Project 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to the Subloan Agreement; 
(z)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means the agreements to be entered into 
between Andhra Pradesh, and APTRANSCO and APGENCO pursuant to Section 2.02 of the 
Andhra Pradesh Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
Page  4
(aa)
“Transfer Scheme Rules” means the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Reform 
(Transfer of Undertakings, Assets, Liabilities, Proceedings and Personnel Transfer) 
Scheme Rules to be promulgated by Andhra Pradesh, as set out in Section 6.01 (b) of 
this Agreement, pursuant to the provisions of the Reform Act for purposes, inter alia, 
of transferring the assets, properties, liabilities, proceedings and personnel related 
to the transmission and distribution undertaking of APSEB to APTRANSCO, and those 
related to the generation undertaking of APSEB to APGENCO. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred ten million dollars ($210,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for 
Page  5
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank  and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on \0bMay 
15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause Andhra Pradesh to carry out or to ensure that APTRANSCO and APGENCO carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, and technical practices, and shall take or 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable APTRANSCO and APGENCO to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Andhra 
Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for developmental 
assistance to the States of India.
(c)
The Borrower shall release to Andhra Pradesh funds equivalent to the 
amounts withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account including those deposited in 
the Special Account, immediately after such withdrawal in accordance with the 
Borrower’s standard arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
APTRANSCO and APGENCO pursuant to Section 2.03 (a) of the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: (i)retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Page  6
Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures; and
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports 
or the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved  
in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; 
and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Andhra Pradesh shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Andhra Pradesh Project Agreement.
(b)
APTRANSCO or APGENCO shall have failed to perform any of their respective 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Andhra Pradesh or APTRANSCO or APGENCO will be able to perform their respective 
obligations under the Andhra Pradesh Project Agreement or the Project Agreement.
(d)
An event shall have occurred which shall make it improbable that the 
Reform Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
(e)
Andhra Pradesh or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have 
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Regulatory Commission 
or of APTRANSCO or of APGENCO or for the suspension of operations of any of them.
(f)
The Memorandum or Articles of Association of APTRANSCO or APGENCO or the 
Reform Act, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to 
affect materially and adversely the operations or the financial condition of APTRANSCO 
or APGENCO or the Regulatory Commission, as the case may be, or the ability of 
APTRANSCO, or APGENCO or Andhra Pradesh, as the case may be, to carry out the Project 
or to perform their respective obligations under the Project Agreement or the Andhra 
Pradesh Project Agreement.
(g)
APTRANSCO shall have failed to obtain a license under the Reform Act from 
the Regulatory Commission to replace the provisional license issued by Andhra Pradesh, 
or obtained a license under terms and conditions which either at inception or through 
subsequent alteration, variation, modification or amendment materially and adversely 
affects the ability of APTRANSCO to carry out the Project or to perform its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(h)
Except as set out in Section 2.06 of the Andhra Pradesh Project 
Agreement, and Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement, APTRANSCO or APGENCO shall have 
Page  7
taken any action which has the effect of altering, varying, modifying, adding or 
otherwise changing the terms upon which any property, interest on property, rights, 
liabilities and personnel have been transferred to APTRANSCO and APGENCO under the 
Transfer Scheme Rules prepared pursuant to the Reform Act so as to affect materially 
and adversely the operations or the financial condition of APTRANSCO or APGENCO, or 
their ability to carry out the Project or to perform their respective obligations 
under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the events specified in 
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement with the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:  
(a) that Subsidiary Loan Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, have been 
executed on behalf of Andhra Pradesh and APTRANSCO and APGENCO; and 
(b)
that the Transfer Scheme Rules have been promulgated by Andhra Pradesh 
and made effective. 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Andhra Pradesh Project Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by Andhra Pradesh and is legally binding upon Andhra Pradesh in accordance 
with its terms;
(b)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
APTRANSCO and APGENCO and is legally binding upon APTRANSCO and APGENCO in accordance 
with its terms; and
(c)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified 
by Andhra Pradesh and APTRANSCO and APGENCO and is legally binding upon Andhra Pradesh 
and APTRANSCO and APGENCO in accordance with their terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purpose of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, India
Cable address: 
Telex:
ECOFAIRS
953-31-66175 FINE IN
New Delhi
953-31-61430 FINE IN
Page  8
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ V. Govindarajan
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim 
Country Director, India
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amou
nt 
of 
the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
    30,000,000
  80%
(2)
Consultants' services
     4,000,000
  100%
Page  9
(3)
Goods
   160,000,000
  100% of foreign
  expenditures,
  100% of local
  expenditures (ex-
  factory cost) and
  80% of local
  expenditures for
  other items
  procured locally
(4)
Refunding of
     2,000,000
  Amount due
Project Preparation
  Pursuant to
Advance
  Section 2.02 (b)
  of this Agreement
(5)
Fee
     2,100,000
  Amount due under
  Section 2.04 of
  this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
    11,900,000
TOTAL
   210,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$21,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after January 1, 1999.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a)
goods and works under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent and 
$300,000 equivalent respectively, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower; and
(b)
services under contract not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for employment 
of consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent for employment of individual consultants 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
Page  10
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the 
Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of the Andhra Pradesh Project Agreement and 
Section 4.02 (b) of the Project Agreement and (ii) a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 3.02 (b) of the Andhra Pradesh Project Agreement and Section 4.02 (b) of the 
Project Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 3.02 of the 
Andhra Pradesh Project Agreement or Section 4.02 (b) of the Project Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
Page  11
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals 
Are Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to $14,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $8,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or 
exceed the equivalent of $60,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals 
Are Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
Page  12
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $40,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist Andhra Pradesh in implementing the 
first phase of its Reform Program and to address the most critical bottlenecks of the 
power system.
The Project, which forms part of the Program, consists of the following parts, 
subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Transmission System Augmentation
The rehabilitation and expansion of the transmission system to remove the most 
critical constraints including: (i) relieving the overloaded lines and 
substations;\0b(ii) eliminating the low voltage pockets in the transmission system; 
(iii) expanding the system to meet the growing load demand; and (iv) improving the 
quality and reliability of the power supply.
Part B:
Strengthening Subtransmission and Distribution System
The rehabilitation and expansion of the subtransmission and distribution system 
to: (i) reduce overloading in the power and distribution transformers and feeders; 
\0b(ii) improve the voltage profile, system reliability and efficiency; (iii) reinforce 
the system to meet the growing demand; and (iv) improve customer service.
Part C:
Metering System Improvement
Improving the metering system through: (i) providing high accuracy and better 
quality electronic meters to high revenue yielding consumers; (ii) carrying out a 
program of energy audit at 11 kV feeders and distribution transformers exclusively 
feeding agricultural un-metered supply; (iii) accurate measurement of energy exchanged 
between the successor utilities of APSEB; and (iv) carrying out a program of 
demand-side management for improving end-use efficiency, rationalizing load management 
and power curtailment, and mitigating the impact of increasing retail tariffs through, 
inter alia, acquisition and installation of load research equipment, implementation of 
specific load management and energy efficiency investments by the utilities and 
end-users and fostering private sector provision of energy efficiency services.
Part D:
Technical Assistance 
1.
Provision of technical assistance to Andhra Pradesh in implementing the Power 
Sector Reform Program and to assist in the institutional development of the Regulatory 
Commission. 
2.
Provision of technical assistance and training to APTRANSCO, APGENCO and 
Distribution Companies for implementing the Power Sector Reform Program, staff 
rationalization, institutional development, including improving environment management 
capabilities and in implementing the Project.
* *
 *
The Project is expected to be completed by February 28, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Page  13
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
November 15, 2004
 4,495,000 
May 15, 2005
 4,625,000 
November 15, 2005
 4,760,000 
May 15, 2006
 4,895,000 
November 15, 2006
 5,040,000 
May 15, 2007
 5,185,000 
November 15, 2007
 5,335,000 
May 15, 2008
 5,490,000 
November 15, 2008
 5,645,000 
May 15, 2009
 5,810,000 
November 15, 2009
 5,975,000 
May 15, 2010
 6,150,000 
November 15, 2010
 6,325,000 
May 15, 2011
 6,510,000 
November 15, 2011
 6,695,000 
May 15, 2012
 6,890,000 
November 15, 2012
 7,090,000 
May 15, 2013
 7,295,000 
November 15, 2013
 7,505,000 
May 15, 2014
 7,720,000 
November 15, 2014
 7,940,000 
May 15, 2015
 8,170,000 
November 15, 2015
 8,405,000 
May 15, 2016
 8,650,000 
November 15, 2016
 8,900,000 
May 15, 2017
 9,155,000 
November 15, 2017
 9,420,000 
May 15, 2018
 9,690,000 
November 15, 2018
 9,970,000 
May 15, 2019
10,265,000
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured 
Goods and Domestic Contractors The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the 
Page  14
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory 
of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract respectively, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $12,000,000, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $300,000 or more and each contract for goods awarded under Part B of Section I of 
this Schedule and the first five contracts awarded under Part C.1 of Section I of this 
Schedule irrespective of value, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof, applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under Part D of the Project, estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Page  15
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single Source Selection
Services of consultants under Part D of the Project which are estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services of consultants under Part D of the Project that meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
