Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4441 IN
Andhra Pradesh Project Agreement
(Andhra Pradesh Power Sector Restructuring Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
Dated March 5, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4441 IN 
ANDHRA PRADESH PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 5, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH, acting by its Governor (Andhra 
Pradesh).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between India, acting by 
its President (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower 
an amount of two hundred ten million dollars ($210,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Andhra Pradesh 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
(B)
the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be 
made available by the Borrower to Andhra Pradesh as provided for in the Loan 
Agreement;
(C) 
by the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and  
Transmission Corporation of Andhra Pradesh Limited (APTRANSCO) and Andhra Pradesh 
Power Generating Corporation Limited (APGENCO), APTRANSCO and APGENCO have undertaken 
certain obligations towards the Bank as set forth in the Project Agreement; and  
(D)
the Bank has received a letter dated November 12, 1998 from Andhra 
Pradesh enclosing a detailed policy statement approved by Andhra Pradesh designed to 
restructure, reform and develop the power sector in Andhra Pradesh (hereinafter the 
Reform Program or Program) and declaring Andhra Pradesh’s commitment to the execution 
of such Program.
WHEREAS Andhra Pradesh, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Andhra Pradesh declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall, 
subject to paragraph (b) (i) hereof, carry out Part D.1 of the Project through its 
relevant departments, shall cause APTRANSCO to carry out Parts A, B, C and the 
relevant activities under Part D.2 of the Project and shall cause APGENCO to carry out 
the relevant activities under Part D.2 of the Project, all with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under this Agreement, Andhra Pradesh shall cause APTRANSCO and APGENCO to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the respective obligations 
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision 
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
APTRANSCO and APGENCO to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 2.02. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to 
APTRANSCO and APGENCO under Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be entered into between 
Andhra Pradesh, and each of APTRANSCO and APGENCO under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, that APTRANSCO and APGENCO shall pay 
interest on the principal amount so relent and withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time at a rate of not less than 13.5% per annum, and repay the principal amount so 
relent over a period of 15 years including therein a period of grace of 3 years and, 
that the foreign exchange risk shall be borne by the Borrower.
(b)
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Andhra Pradesh shall, in 
accordance with arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the Bank, make available 
to APTRANSCO and APGENCO without setting off any amounts that may be due to Andhra 
Pradesh from APTRANSCO and APGENCO, the proceeds of the Loan immediately as they are 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and made available to Andhra Pradesh by the Borrower 
in respect of expenditures to be financed under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c)
Andhra Pradesh shall participate with APTRANSCO and APGENCO in preparing 
and negotiating the plan referred to in Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement.
(d)
Andhra Pradesh shall provide financial support to APTRANSCO, APGENCO and 
Distribution Companies in accordance with the provisions of the Financial Commitment 
Letter to enable APTRANSCO, APGENCO and Distribution Companies to achieve the 
financial and operational targets under the Financial Restructuring Plan.
(e)
Andhra Pradesh shall, in accordance with a time schedule satisfactory to 
the Bank, establish and make operational a Regulatory Commission under the provisions 
of the Reform Act and take all such steps that may be required for its continued 
functioning under the Reform Act.
(f)
 Andhra Pradesh shall prior to the operationalization of the Regulatory 
Commission referred to in Section 2.02 (e) hereof, adjust electricity tariff to the 
extent required to enable APTRANSCO and APGENCO to achieve the financial targets set 
out in Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement.  After the operationalization of the 
Page  3
Regulatory Commission, Andhra Pradesh shall cause APTRANSCO and Distribution Companies 
to make timely and suitable tariff submissions to the Regulatory Commission for 
achieving such financial targets.  
(g)
Andhra Pradesh shall, by March 31 of each year during the implementation 
of the Project, inform the Bank of the approved budget of the Regulatory Commission 
referred to in paragraph (e) of this Section for the following Fiscal Year. 
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the 
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. Andhra Pradesh shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Andhra Pradesh 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, 
amending, abrogating or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 2.05. Andhra Pradesh shall, with the participation of APTRANSCO and 
APGENCO, by September 30, 1999 submit to the Bank a detailed plan, agreed between 
APTRANSCO’s and APGENCO’s lenders and suppliers, for the purpose of rescheduling 
APTRANSCO’s and APGENCO’s overdue payables, current debt from lenders, debt service in 
default, and debt service falling due from FY 1999 to FY 2002.
Section 2.06. Andhra Pradesh shall take all such actions as may be required or 
necessary including the provision of consents under the Reform Act, in order to enable 
APTRANSCO to establish Distribution Companies and prepare and implement the transfer 
scheme referred to in Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.07. On or about the date that the transfer scheme referred to in 
Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement is implemented, Andhra Pradesh shall agree with 
APTRANSCO on necessary revisions to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Andhra 
Pradesh and APTRANSCO in order to take account of such transfer.
Section 2.08. Andhra Pradesh shall: (a) maintain policies and procedures 
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with 
indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the Program 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about August 31, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project and the Program 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the Program and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by October 31, 2000, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient implementation of the 
Program and the completion of the Project, and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 2.09. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange 
views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project and the Program, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Andhra Pradesh shall promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project 
and the Program, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by 
Andhra Pradesh of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Page  4
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
Andhra Pradesh shall:
(i)
have the said records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this 
section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, and 
accounts as well as the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, Andhra Pradesh shall not later than December 31, 1999 or such later date as 
the Bank shall agree, prepare in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank 
quarterly Project Management Reports for Part D.1 of the Project each of which for 
such Part of the Project:
(i)
(A) sets forth  actual sources and applications of funds both 
cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, and projected 
sources and applications 
of funds for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said report, 
and (B) shows separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the 
period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period following 
the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for 
the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the 
actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement and expenditures under 
contracts financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the 
period covered by said 
report. 
(b)
Andhra Pradesh shall furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the 
end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report prepared pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each such calendar quarter beginning not later than 
the calendar quarter ending on December 31, 1999 or such later date as the Bank shall 
agree. 
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Andhra 
Pradesh thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Andhra 
Pradesh thereof.
Page  5
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Andhra Pradesh:
Chief Secretary to the Government of Andhra Pradesh
Hyderabad, India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed under this Agreement on behalf of Andhra Pradesh 
may be taken or executed by its Chief Secretary or by such other person or persons as 
Andhra Pradesh shall designate in writing, and Andhra Pradesh shall furnish to the 
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
Page  6
By /s/ V. S. Sampath
Authorized Representative
