          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                   International Development Association
                                                                         86773
                      International Finance Corporation
                 Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
                           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                          CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                     EDS99-32
                                                              February 18, 1999


Board Meeting of February 18, 1999
Statement by Bassary Touré

         INDIA:   CAS PROGRESS REPORT AND ADAPTABLE PROGRAM    LOAN
     I want to start by congratulating staff and management of the
World Bank Group for this comprehensive and straightforward CAS
Progress Report.
     The report provides a good update and assessment of the recent
political and economic developments in India since the last CAS
discussed by the Board on January 15, 1998.     The CAS, based on a
vision of India for the year 2010, was essentially built around the
overarching objective of poverty reduction through accelerated growth
and social development.  The initial phase of its implementation was
very successful and substantial progress on structural reforms was
achieved.
     However, in addition to the impact of the East Asia crisis,
economic sanctions were imposed on India, in reaction to its nuclear
tests in May 1998, and financial conditions seriously deteriorated as
a result of loss of investor confidence and the suspension of new
official bilateral and multilateral disbursements for non-humanitarian
purposes. Nevertheless, under these adverse circumstances even when
financing dried up, the government remained committed to the reform
and progress has been made with respect to all five major components
of the CAS strategy, as stated in the report.

     Despite these positive developments, the government still has
enormous challenges to face in the years ahead as outlined in this
update, in order to consolidate the macroeconomic stability, maintain
economic growth and further poverty alleviation.

     §   We agree with the emphasis stressed in the document on the
         need to strengthen the financial sector in general, and the
         banking sector in particular. In this regard, we believe that
         the recent consolidation process initiated by the government,
         through the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is an important step
         in the right direction.

     §   We agree with the Report assessment that India’s 5% growth
         achieved in 1998 is impressive and encourage the government to
         deepen reforms including:
                               2
            (i)   the privatization of public enterprises;
                      (ii)   the maintenance of prudent fiscal
                  budget policies in a low inflation context;
            (iii) the creation of a legal framework for private
                  sector activities;
            (iv) the liberalization of trade and deregulation of
                  the economy.

§   We would like to express strong support for the Bank’s ongoing
    assistance strategy with a focus on poverty reduction by giving
    the priority to human resource development, according to the
    1998 India Poverty assessment, and we commend the broad efforts
    made by the government and the Bank to strengthen the
    participation of beneficiaries and affected people in project
    preparation and formulation policy.         We consider that
    sustaining these efforts will lead to major improvements in the
    social indicators and services targeted to the poor.

§   We hope that IFC and MIGA will very soon resume their catalytic
    roles in furthering the development of India’s private sector.

§   With regard to the proposed APL, we welcome this operation as
    timely and appropriate support for the significant steps taken
    by the government in the power sector given the difficult
    political and economic context.   At the same time, this APL
    will help India improve its creditworthiness and restore
    investor’s confidence.
