                Int-.mational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                         International Development Association                                       86772
                            Intemational Finance Corporation
                       Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
                                    FOR OFFICtAL USE ONLY

                                    CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                                     EDS99-30
                                                                                              February 18, 1999

   Board Meeting of February 18,1999
   Statement by Ruth Bachmayer

                          India - Country Assistance Strategy - Progress Report
                       India - Andhra Pradesh Power Sector Restructuring Project

           First of all, I commend management and staff for updating the Board on developments
   in India through the CAS Progress Report which is being presented to us today.

   Despite its still high growth, India seems to be in a difficult position, given the fragile political
   structure and the difficult external environment. It seems that for political reasons, because of
   opposition to economic reforms as well as loss of competitiveness of the Indian industries and
   "crowding-out" of Indian exports by products from countries that have heavily depreciated in
   the past 15 months, growth may not be sustainable in the near future. Nevertheless, in spite of
   these possible developments, we support the view that the major components of the current
   CAS for India still hold.

   Also, the fiscal situation is deteriorating rapidly, both on the level of the central budget and
   the state level. We are very concerned about the fact that non-developmental expenditures as a
   percentage of the total budget have apparently increased sharply as compared to the previous
   year. Opposition against expenditure cuts seems to be very strong and we understand that
   non-developmental expenditures may be more difficult to curtail than spending on
   development.

   We would appreciate more information by management on what the central government and
   the states are planning to do with respect to budgetary and tax reform and the improvement
   of revenue collection, and what the prospects of the public administration reform both on the
   central as well as the state levels are. From notes under paragraphs 20 and 56 on Uttar
   Pradesh and on subnational lending, we understand that the fiscal situation of some states is
   unsustainable, and we wonder what tradeoff between fiscal implications and worsening of
   poverty it may cause in the coming period.

   In the context of pervasive poverty in the Indian society and of the recent external political
   circumstances, the budgetary reform and the expenditure cuts call forth two serious questions:

-Tilis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by   rvcipients only in the
72:TcrT.aRe orzh.eir official duties. Its contents may not otheri s-e ciSclosed
                                                                         i-       without,
                tO   -l .   OfL
                                                2

1. The first question regards the increase of military expenditures:
                                                                        it is crucial that India
   shifts the structure of budget expenditures in the direction of battling
                                                                             sweeping poverty,
   illiteracy and basic human needs. We strongly suggest that management
                                                                              launches a Public
   Expenditure Review to analyze and discuss with the Government
                                                                         where priorities could
   be reoriented mainly towards poverty and development related issues.
2. The second question relates to poverty, inequality and human
                                                                     development indicators.
   Quantitative information on these elements is very modest in the
                                                                        CAS Progress Report,
   and we wonder whether management has more data on these areas.

My last remark on the CAS Progress Report relates to the notion
                                                                      in paragraph 3. on India's
experience during the Asian financial crisis As the report mentions,
                                                                        the Indian economy has
been largely insulated from the immediate impact on the East Asian
                                                                         financial crisis doe to a
combination of several elements of monetary and capital markets
                                                                        policies. Together with
some other countries, the Indian experience could provide an interesting
                                                                             example of how, for
instance, moderate capital controls that are consistent with general
                                                                          principles of a market
economy, may be used, at least temporarily, to protect countries with
                                                                          weak financial systems
from financial crises and provide them with more time to strengthen
                                                                         their domestic financial
systems. Yet, capital controls should not be seen as an alternative
                                                                    to financial sector reforms.
We were pleased to learn from the Progress Report, that the Indian
                                                                            government and the
Reserve Bank of India are serious about the financial sector reform.
                                                                        Having learnt from the
East Asian crisis, we would, however, appreciate if more attention
                                                                       could be devoted to this
area in the next report on India.



       ANDHRA PRADESH POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT


In principle, we welcome the overall focus and structure of the project.
                                                                         In our view, it would
also be important to give a signal to those states of India, whose governments
                                                                                  show a clear
commitment to reforms, that they can rely on the Bank's support. Andhra
                                                                             Pradesh seems to
be the leading state in the strong commitment to reforms and based
                                                                        on these merits would
deserve support.

Although the project is in line with the Bank's strategy outlined
                                                                     in the CAS and aims to
mitigate major fiscal imbalances and to support reform we do not see
                                                                          its direct link to the
support of basic human needs projects. We, therefore, wish to be recorded
                                                                            as abstaining.
We have, nevertheless, a couple of comments on the proposed project
                                                                     and the series of APLs
to finance the power sector restructuring program of Andhra Pradesh.

1. Even though the government of Andhra may try to find social
                                                                      consensus regarding the
   power sector r eform, we are under the impression that the social impact
                                                                             of the project - in
   the terms of redistribution of income and wealth among various social
                                                                             groups - is rather
   understated in the report. The elimination of subsidies and the necessary
                                                                              tariff reform will
                                               3

   have an uneven impact on various social groups and should not contribute
                                                                                to an increase,
   rather than a decrease in inequality.
2. Clear links in the project between the savings on the expenditure
                                                                       side of the budget and
   the progress of social reforms, the alleviation of poverty and improvement
                                                                                 of health and
   education are missing. In our view, this would be particularly relevant
                                                                           in connectiqn with
   the previous comment. We believe that progress in these areas
                                                                       could also be uised as
   conditions for the later APLs.
3. We miss in the project a more detailed elaboration on how the
                                                                    project contributes to the
   improvement of the environmental impact of the power sector,
                                                                            as environimental
   improvement is one of priorities set in the CAS for India.

Finally, given the great overall loan volume planned for the restructuring
                                                                           program we would
like to get clarification from Management how in case of approval
                                                                   of the first APL thei Board
will be involved in the subsequent APL decision stages.
