                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32646

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-36690)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

             IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12 MILLION (US$15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO

                                                ALBANIA

                                                 FOR A

                        FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (FSAC)




                                              June 20, 2005




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective March 31, 2005)

                        Currency Unit = Lek
                                Lek 1 = US$ 0.010
                                US$ 1 = Lek 97.40

                              FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1 -    December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BoA      -      Bank of Albania
BART     -      Bank Asset Resolution Trust (Loan Collection Agency - LCA)
CAS      -      Country Assistance Strategy
DIA      -      Deposit Insurance Agency
EBRD     -      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ECSPF    -      Europe and Central Asia, Private and Financial Sector Development Unit
EU       -      European Union
FSAC     -      Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
FSIBTA   -      Financial Sector Institution Building Technical Assistance Project
GDP      -      Gross Domestic Product
IAS      -      International Accounting Standards
IDA      -      International Development Association
IDP      -      Institutional Development Plan for the Bankruptcy Framework
IFC      -      International Finance Corporation
IMF      -      International Monetary Fund
INSIG    -      Insurance Institute of Albania
ISA      -      Insurance Supervision Agency (formerly ISC - Insurance Supervision
                Commission)
MoF      -      Ministry of Finance
MoJ      -      Ministry of Justice
NCB      -      National Commercial Bank
NSSED    -      National Strategy for Social and Economic Development
PHRD     -      Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PRGF     -      Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSC     -      Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP     -      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RCB      -      Rural Commercial Bank
RPTA     -      Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project
RTGS     -      Real Time Gross Settlement
SDP      -      Supervisory Development Plan for Banking Supervision
SvB      -      Savings Bank
TA       -      Technical Assistance
USAID    -      United States Agency for International Development



                      Vice President:      Shigeo Katsu
                   Country Director        Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                     Sector Manager        Fernando Montes-Negret
    Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Hormoz Aghdaey

                                           ALBANIA
                         Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            25

Project ID: P057818                                                  Project Name: Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
                                                                     (FSAC)
Team Leader: Hormoz Aghdaey                                          TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 20, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC)                L/C/TF Number: IDA-36690
   Country/Department: ALBANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Banking (54%); Non-compulsory pensions, insurance and
                            contractual savings (31%); General industry and trade sector (15%)
                  Theme: Regulation and competition policy (P); State enterprise/bank
                            restructuring and privatization (S); Other financial and private sector
                            development (S); International financial architecture (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/05/2001                                     Effective:                           08/07/2002
     Appraisal: 01/30/2002                                         MTR:
      Approval: 06/20/2002                                      Closing: 03/31/2004                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Albania/Ministry of Finance
                      Other Partners:      Bank of Albania, Insurance Supervision Agency, Bank Asset Resolution Trust

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:                 Fernando Montes-Negret                         Paul Siegelbaum
Team Leader at ICR:             Hormoz Aghdaey                                 Hormoz Aghdaey
ICR Primary Author:             Hormoz Aghdaey; Rochelle
                                Hilton


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of this operation was to support the Government of Albania's program to consolidate and
take reforms in the financial sector further to foster better engagement of the financial sector in the
development of the Albanian economy. The proposed program consisted of three broad components: (i)
continued reform of the banking sector including the privatization of the Savings Bank (SvB) and further
strengthening of the banking regulation and supervision, (ii) enhancement of the bankruptcy and debt
resolution framework, and (iii) reform of the non-bank financial sector, including further development of
the regulatory and supervisory framework for the insurance sector and the privatization of the Insurance
Institute of Albania (INSIG).

The project objective was clear and realistic. It was fully consistent with the CAS and the 2002 National
Strategy for Social and Economic Development (NSSED) (previously the Growth and Poverty Reduction
Strategy). The current CAS (FY03-05) was built around three pillars: (i) Improve governance and
strengthen institutions: build efficient and inclusive public institutions; increase transparency and
accountability at all levels; strengthen monitoring and evaluation; and use community-based approaches
that build institutions from the bottom up; (ii) Promote sustainable private sector growth: maintain
macroeconomic stability in conjunction with the IMF Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF);
improve the environment for private investment; continue to reform the financial sector, and complete
enterprise privatization; sustain agricultural growth and foster broad-based rural growth; improve
infrastructure and create institutional environments conducive to infrastructure sustainability, especially
through community or private sector participation; and promote environmental sustainability and
sustainable use of natural resources; and (iii) Foster human development: improve access to and quality of
education and healthcare in both urban and rural areas; strengthen the sustainability and equity of the social
insurance system; and improve targeting and efficacy of social assistance and community social services.
The FSAC was fundamental to the goals of the CAS and related directly to the first two pillars. The
project built on ongoing efforts, had a clear focus, and enjoyed the full ownership of the Government and
the central bank. These factors enabled the program to cover complex and challenging reform areas.

3.2 Revised Objective:
n/a

3.3 Original Components:
Background and context:
Although the democratic and economic transformation in Albania began later than in other Central and
Eastern European countries, the implementation of the initial phase of reforms in the early 1990s was rapid
and impressive with high growth rates, low inflation, an improved current account balance and significantly
improved fiscal deficit. Reforms in the public administration and financial sectors, however, advanced at a
much slower pace. By early 1996, it was clear that many problems had not been resolved, and others were
emerging. Structural reforms had stalled, especially in the critical area of banking, evident in the lack of
progress in resolution of the problems in the state-owned banks, and in further development and
enforcement of banking regulation and supervision. Despite some initial efforts at reforms, the institutional
and financial infrastructure was unable to adequately support sound credit practices and the effective
functioning of the market. The legal system remained underdeveloped and could not effectively enforce
contracts. Comprehensive and well-defined accounting principles based on International Accounting
Standards (IAS) were not introduced. Hence, accurate and transparent information on the financial
performance of banks and enterprises was not available and there was insufficient information on which to
base credit and investment decisions. Effective systems for internal risk management and control, with



                                                       - 2 -

strict accountability to owners, directors and senior management, were not fully developed and enforced.
Financial institutions were not adequately supervised and even the most basic regulations such as those
ensuring adequacy of risk capital were not enforced. At the same time, the supervisory and regulatory
authorities did not have adequate skills, resources and independence from political interference to perform
their functions.

The inadequacy of the financial system, especially its regulatory and supervisory framework, led to the
proliferation of informal financial arrangements including pyramid schemes, the collapse of which triggered
the civil crisis of early 1997, and the subsequent fall of the government. The economic fallout from the
crisis was severe, with GDP contracting by 7 percent and inflation increasing to over 40 percent in 1997.

The Government, which took office after the elections of July 1997, quickly re-established macroeconomic
control and started implementing a broad-based program of reforms in the public administration and
financial sectors, including institution-building, civil service reform, and divestiture/privatization of
state-owned banks. In consultation with IDA and the IMF, it adopted an ambitious program to cease all
lending activities by state-owned banks, and to divest itself from the banking sector. In line with this
program, it immediately liquidated the Rural Commercial Bank (RCB) in December 1997, undertook to
offer the National Commercial Bank (NCB) for privatization within a one year time-frame and put SvB
under a tight governance contract with a view to its privatization. The authorities made substantial
progress in implementing this element of their program, although the ambitious timetable established was
not met. Privatization of NCB was concluded in October 2000. The governance contract with SvB
prohibited it from lending and prescribed steps, including defensive restructuring measures, to be followed
in preparing the bank for privatization. Intensive dialogue with the Bank supported the implementation of
this program, although specific preparation of the FSAC had not yet started. As a result of this dialogue,
the Government took many major policy decisions prior to Board presentation of the FSAC.

Successive governments have maintained this commitment to macroeconomic stability and structural
reforms, with support from the international donor community led by IDA and the IMF. The Government,
which came to power in 2002, confirmed its intention to proceed with the implementation of the reform
program agreed in 1997. Building on past actions, the FSAC support the program going forward.
Although the credit was expected to fully disburse in a period of 1-2 years, no strict deadline was specified
for meeting the conditions since the focus was on the implementation of capacity building programs which
took into account the long-term nature of the reforms. The capacity building plans were supported through
the IDA-funded Financial Sector Institution Building Technical Assistance Project (FSIBTA) and other
donors, especially the IMF and USAID.

Components: The FSAC supported the implementation of a comprehensive reform program in the
following areas:
l Continued Reform of the Banking Sector focusing on the privatization of SvB and improvement of the
    institutional, regulatory, and supervisory framework for banking;
l Enhancement of the Bankruptcy and Debt Resolution Framework focusing on the adoption of the new
    insolvency legislation and capacity building for and implementation of the insolvency and secured
    financing framework, and debt workout activities of the Loan Collection Agency (BART); and
l Reform of the Non-Bank Financial Sector focusing on further development of the regulatory and
    supervisory framework for the insurance sector and the privatization of INSIG.

The project achieved all of its major objectives and the design of the operation was well tailored to the
Government's overall goals. The focus on capacity building and results, rather than on passage of
legislation proved to be effective, and the FSAC is highly likely to achieve substantial development results


                                                       - 3 -

without any major shortcomings. The program the FSAC supported is highly likely to be sustainable as the
many of the actions taken are irreversible. Taking into account lessons learned from implementation of
other operations in the region, the FSAC was, by design, preceded by the related FSIBTA, which, in turn,
has been instrumental in ensuring the proper implementation of the Government and BoA's policies and
programs in the financial sector. Given the capacity on the ground, the relatively narrow focus of the
FSAC was justified in order to maintain momentum in implementing reforms which are so fundamental to
the development of the financial sector. Albania now has the platform and the confidence to launch the
next phase of its financial sector reforms, giving more attention to the non-bank financial sector.

3.4 Revised Components:
n/a

3.5 Quality at Entry:
A voluntary Quality Enhancement Review concluded that the project was well designed and focussed. It
assessed the quality of the operation to be satisfactory. The design of the project benefited from this
review, particularly in terms of streamlining the conditionality and increasing the focus on outcomes. As
mentioned above, the program was clearly linked to the CAS/NSSED priorities. The risks were clearly
identified and carefully evaluated. The main risks related to political instability and lack of absorptive
capacity. To mitigate the political risk, the FSAC was designed to ensure that key (and irreversible) steps
were taken prior to Board presentation. The risk that the weak institutional capacity in the country would
impact implementation of the FSAC was mitigated by a number of technical assistance (TA) initiatives that
were already underway prior to approval of this operation, including the FSIBTA and Legal and Judicial
Reform Project, as well as programs from other donors. An additional risk related to internal and external
macroeconomic imbalances, which were largely mitigated through the program agreed with the IMF.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of the objectives and outputs is considered satisfactory. The FSAC has contributed to the
strengthening and deepening of the financial sector. The supervisory and legal framework for the banking
system has been substantially strengthened, especially through the implementation and institutionalization
of the Supervisory Development Plan for banking supervision (SDP). The privatization of the SvB, which
marked the exit of the state from any major ownership role in the banking sector, has led to the entry of a
reputable West European Bank into the market and is already showing results by improving competition in
the banking sector. The number and quality of banking products and services is gradually increasing (for
instance, about 9 banks have installed ATMs and many can now be seen around Tirana). In regard to
intermediation, according to the BoA, credit to the private sector grew by about 31% in 2003 and 38% in
2004. Private sector deposits have also increased, with a growth of about 15% per year in 2003 and 2004.
As a percentage of GDP, credit to the private sector has increased from 4.6% in 2001 to almost 8% in
2004. The overall quality of the portfolio (as measured by the level of non-performing loans, reported by
the BoA) remains good. In regard to the bankruptcy and debt resolution framework, new legislation for the
bankruptcy framework has been enacted, training of a pilot group of bankruptcy professionals has been
completed, bankruptcy programs have been included in university and magistrates school curricula and
BART has achieved positive results in its loan resolution activities. Also noteworthy is the progress made
in meeting other indicators that relate to the Government's own agenda, such as the successful operation of
the RTGS and enactment of a satisfactory accounting law.

There were no major shortcomings in the achievement of the FSAC's objectives, although the full impact of
all of the reforms will be realized only in the long-term. For example, substantial improvements have been



                                                      - 4 -

made in efforts to increase effectiveness of supervision of the insurance sector. The legal framework has
been strengthened with the approval of primary legislation broadly in line with EU requirements, but
appropriate secondary legislation is not yet in place. In addition, much remains to be done to further
enhance the capacity of the regulator and to ensure that the sector can operate based on acceptable market
principles. The authorities are taking steps to improve enforcement and secondary legislation, particularly
in relation to the application and oversight of compulsory TPL activities. However, as identified in the
risks in the FSAC President's Report, implementation of this component has been undermined by the
limited absorptive capacity.

The original Closing Date was extended by 9 months to December 31, 2004, particularly to allow more
time to implement changes to insurance legislation and for implementation of the Institution Development
Plan for the bankruptcy framework (IDP). The latter was delayed because of the lack of timely provision
of expected donor funding.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Continued Reform of the Banking Sector: This component is rated as highly satisfactory and included
several elements, with the following outputs as part of the core conditionality of the FSAC:
Finalization of sale of at least 50% + 1 of SvB shares. The initial attempt to sell the SvB was not
successful, in large part due to an unfavorable environment in the international financial markets. The
Government took a strong stand to pursue an eventual privatization, including resisting pressures to break
up the bank. This led to the sale of 100% of the bank (completed in April 2004). This sale is recognized
as the most successful privatization to date for Albania.

Establishment of the Deposit Insurance Agency (DIA) and satisfactory progress in implementing its
financing plan.The DIA was established in accordance with the provisions of the October 2002 Deposit
Insurance Law. The DIA has been capitalized to the agreed levels, is adequately staffed and funded; a
3-year financing plan is in place and is being implemented satisfactorily. As provided for in the Deposit
Insurance Law, following the initial capitalization from the State budget, all banks have been paying
contributions to the Deposit Insurance Fund and its ratio to insured deposits has increased. Investments are
made through foreign-based banks acting as brokers and custodians.

Implementation of the BoA's SDP for Banking Supervision. The SDP has yielded many positive outputs
in the area of banking supervision. The BoA is following a Supervisory Operating Policy, which outlines
and discusses the method of bank supervision. Supervision strategies are being followed for each bank in
the system. These strategies have become increasingly robust and more risk-based, with improvements in
the quality and comprehensiveness of the risk analysis, management evaluations and supervisory plans.
Two-way communication with the banking industry has increased, as has BoA's dialogue with external
auditors. As a result of this comprehensive plan, the skills and quality of banking supervision personnel
has improved. The BoA recognizes that the SDP is a "living document", the benefits of which will
continue. The BoA intends to continue efforts to implement the SDP and further improve supervision as
part of its long-term goals. (In addition to IDA, support for banking supervision and the regulatory
framework has been provided by the IMF and USAID, through its FSVC program.)

Additional outputs which were part of the Government's program and reflected in the FSAC as monitorable
indicators, included:
l Improving banking competition, through: (i) outsourcing of budgetary and fiscal functions through
    open auctions. The responsibility for the management of pension services was transferred from SvB to
    Albapost. Other budgetary services have been contracted out to commercial banks, through auctions in
    the larger towns where an adequate number of banks were present, and by negotiations elsewhere; (ii)



                                                     - 5 -

    increasing credits to the private sector as a percentage of GDP. As mentioned above, this percentage
    has increased to almost 8% in 2004; (iii) reduction in interest rate spreads. Interest rate spreads
    dropped significantly between 2000 and 2001 but, given the dynamics of the sector - a sharp increase
    in small retail loans, increased maturity of loans and the overall low level of intermediation - it is too
    soon to observe a sustained reduction in spreads. It would be interesting to observe this in about 2
    years from now when competition in the banking sector has matured; and (iv) increase in sales of
    Treasury bills to the public. Since the opening of BoA's window for individuals to participate in the
    auction of Treasury Bills in 2000, sales to the public have increased from less than 1% of the total to
    about 6% in 2004. At end-2004 the total value of Treasury Bills held by this group was over Lek 15
    billion.
l Improving banking regulation, through: (i) adoption by parliament of amendments to the Banking
    Law and Law on the Bank of Albania. Agreed and satisfactory legislation was adopted in mid 2002.
    Nevertheless, as part of the process of harmonization with EU directives, the authorities have prepared
    a draft new Banking Law which is currently under review; and (ii) Adoption by BoA of satisfactory
    regulations. BoA has revised and adopted a number of important regulations, including on issuing
    licenses; managing credit risk; capital adequacy; money laundering; and connected lending.
l Development of an efficient payments system, through: (i) establishment of the necessary legislative
    framework for the operation of a bulk clearing and settlement (retail payments) system. The
    legislative framework is in place and the establishment of a fully automated bulk clearing system is
    nearing completion. This system is expected to facilitate increasing payments through the banking
    system of civil servants/government employees' salaries; and (ii) initiation of operations of a real time
    gross settlement (RTGS) system and connection of not less than 5 banks to the system. The RTGS
    system was launched at the beginning of 2004 and is functioning well. All banks are connected to the
    system. Together these two systems will ensure that the basic infrastructure is in place in the country
    to meet the payment system demands necessary for an efficient banking system.

Enhancement of the Bankruptcy and Debt Resolution Framework: This component is rated as
satisfactory and included the following outputs as part of the core conditionality of the FSAC:
l Satisfactory progress in implementation of the Institutional Development Plan for bankruptcy
    enforcement and secured financing (IDP). This framework incorporates provisions in the Law on
    Bankruptcy, specific articles of the Civil Code and the Law for Securing Charges, and provides the
    primary laws to deal effectively with the protection of creditors' rights. To help oversee and manage
    the implementation of the agreed IDP, the authorities established a working group with representatives
    of the Ministry of Finance (MoF), Ministry of Justice and of the legal profession. In line with the IDP,
    a comprehensive Manual on the Albanian Insolvency Law has been prepared, with the help of foreign
    experts and reputable local legal firms. It is available as a tool to help courts and administrators in the
    implementation of the Insolvency Law. The Manual also provides guidance to creditors and debtors
    on how to use the system. The Tirana Magistrates School has provided training to judges on
    liquidation and reorganization, using the Manual as the basis for these sessions. Furthermore,
    bankruptcy and property rights legislation is being included in the curriculum for future students of the
    Magistrates School and the curricula of two universities, including the Faculty of Law at Tirana
    University. GtZ, in cooperation with the MoF, agreed to provide additional training for administrators
    and to organize public awareness campaigns by mid-2005.
l Completion of no less than 3 pilot cases to test the operation of the framework. The courts have acted
    on at least three cases initiated by secured creditors against debtors who defaulted on the payments of
    their obligations. These cases have provided a demonstration effect and have increased the willingness
    of credits to advance credits, as the courts have recognized the rights of secured creditors.
l Satisfactory implementation of BART's Strategic and Business Plan, including divestiture of 15% of
    its portfolio value. The structure of BART has been strengthened, and a Global Scheme, which


                                                      - 6 -

    reflected its strategic and business plan, adopted. This scheme introduced a step-by-step strategy to
    improve collections by dividing BART's portfolio into several different categories, grouped by size and
    methods of disposal of the assets. By focusing on the groups which were assessed to be the less
    problematic, starting in 2003, BART posted impressive results in its collection and divestiture
    performance, with the total value of its portfolio declining by almost 38% by end 2004. This included
    the write-off of a number of loans relating to state enterprises that either no longer existed or were
    dormant, as well as the sale to an Albanian commercial bank of one large loan for about US$2 million.
    A large number of cases have been submitted to the courts and are either awaiting court decisions or
    disposal actions by the bailiffs. There is a backlog in the actual sale of the assets, partly due to
    inefficiencies in the bailiffs' system and partly because of legal requirements relating to public auction
    procedures, which impose a floor on the value for which property can be sold. Although these issues
    did not prevent BART meeting the target of the FSAC program, they could affect the final resolution
    and in the interest of creditors' rights, they will need to be addressed. Discussions are underway
    between the Government and BART on appropriate steps to prepare for the orderly dissolution of
    BART by end-2005, as provided for in the existing BART law.

Additional outputs which were part of the Government's program and reflected in the FSAC as monitorable
indicators, included:
l Improving collateral enforcement, through the maintenance of at least 2 staff for the Secured
    Charges Registry. The Registry of Secured Charges is adequately staffed with 3 persons and operates
    effectively. It has been upgraded to an internet-based registry.
l Improving financial reporting, through: (i) the enactment of a satisfactory Accounting Law and of
    amendments to relevant legislation. A satisfactory Accounting Law, substantially in line EU
    directives,has been enacted. The legislation mandates full implementation of IAS (now IFRS) for
    banks, insurance companies, and entities with public trust obligations, mandatory implementation of
    IAS for corporations issuing securities to the public and their use of an appropriate chart of accounts.
    Banks implemented IAS several years ago, based on BoA requirements. A comprehensive effort is
    nearing completion, with external TA, to prepare national accounting standards, consistent with EU
    directives, to enable reporting by the corporate sector in 2006, as mandated by the Law.

Reform of the Non-Bank Financial Sector: This component is rated as marginally satisfactory and
included the following outputs as part of the core conditionality of the FSAC:
l Enactment of satisfactory insurance legislation. New Laws on Insurance, Reinsurance and Brokers
    and on the Operation of the ISA, approved by Parliament in September 2004, and amended prior to
    release of second tranche of the FSAC, substantially comply with minimum requirements of modern
    good practice. Improvement has been made in the development and use of basic financial and
    statistical reports, and the ISA has been using these for corrective action purposes. However, there is a
    need to develop more comprehensive statistical reporting so that technical reserves and solvency can be
    monitored by ISA. In regard to the compulsory motor insurance (the main activity of insurance
    companies), an actuarially based premium rating system establishing transparent guidelines for setting
    premiums and reserving for TPL insurance was introduced. However, compliance with the regulations
    is weak. To remedy this situation and further strengthen supervision, the Minister of Finance has
    issued orders (regulations) to enforce prudent reinsurance practices and a review the entire TPL system
    is underway, with a view to implementing long-term reforms and improving enforcement.
l Establishment of an insurance regulatory agency with budgetary and operational independence,
    acceptable to IDA. The Law on the Operation of the ISA is in line with relevant requirements of the
    International Association of Insurance Supervisors in regard to budgetary and operational
    independence. The ISA Supervisory Council, working with the State Audit Bureau, has signed off on a
    business plan for the next two years and the MoF has provided written confirmation that arrangements


                                                        - 7 -

    will be put in place to ensure adequate funding of the ISA, in compliance with the Law.

Additional outputs which were part of the Government's program and reflected in the FSAC as monitorable
indicators, included:
l The Privatization of INSIG, through: (i) the signing of a sales contract with a strategic investor
    and/or IFI; (ii) an independent board and commercial management structure for INSIG; and (iii)
    retention by MoF of professional advice to help with the privatization program. In view of IFC's
    proposed investment in INSIG (which was approved at the same time as the FSAC), no conditionality
    for this privatization was incorporated in the FSAC, to avoid any conflict of interest. The Bank
    supported the privatization but was concerned that changes in management at INSIG and weaknesses
    in the regulation of the compulsory TPL system could undermine the value of INSIG. This concern
    proved to be valid as, over the period 2001-2004, INSIG's share of the non-life insurance market
    dropped from 60% to less than 30%. Public offering of the balance on INSIG to private investors,
    delayed pending improvement in the health of the international financial markets, is planned for the
    coming year.

The indicators were robust and provided good benchmarks for measuring progress in meeting program
objectives.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
n/a

4.4 Financial rate of return:
n/a

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact is assessed as high. Participation of all project beneficiaries
in preparation and implementation of the program assisted in capacity building. Notably, the Banking
Supervision Department of the BoA has been substantially strengthened as a result of both the development
and implementation of the SDP; BART is a more structured organization, with functioning supervisory and
investment boards which meet regularly, and operates as a much more effective loan collection agency.
Through its improved capacity, it has helped to instill a credit culture which was previously lacking in
Albania. A deposit insurance agency was established and has been operating effectively. In the case of the
ISA, the institutional development impact has been marginal. Staff are now technically better equipped to
fulfill their functions, but the ISA is not yet effectively carrying out its role as supervisor. The authorities
are aware of these shortcomings and strengthening the ISA is the focus of ongoing efforts. The approval of
the primary laws for this industry should set the basis for further improvements.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The unfavorable situation in international financial markets led to the initial failure to privatize the SvB.
After this failure, the decision to offer the bank as a whole was re-examined. The approach was found to
be sound and a decision was made to intensify marketing efforts and re-offer the bank once the environment
improved. Given the importance of this privatization to the Government, the delay in the privatization
diverted the attention of the Government from other components of the program early on.

Lack of expected donor funding delayed implementation of the IDP. The preliminary agreement that was in
place for grant funding at the time the FSAC went to the Board did not materialize and alternative sources
to support implementation of the bankruptcy reforms had to be identified. In retrospect, it would have been



                                                        - 8 -

beneficial to have incorporated support for the IDP in the FSIBTA. This was, however, not done since a
separate TA project for legal and judicial reform was being processed.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The program supported by the FSAC enjoyed strong government commitment, at the highest levels. This is
noteworthy as several changes in government, for the most part, did not negatively impact implementation
of the program.

The institutional weakness of ISA was exacerbated by frequent changes in key officials. This reduced the
effectiveness of some of the institutional development support provided to help strengthen the insurance
supervisory framework.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Working level counterpart arrangements were, for brief periods, not clear. This led to a lack of proactivity
in monitoring project progress (although a monitoring mechanism was in place) and in coordination with
other agencies involved in the program. The actions taken to address this issue during the last year of the
FSAC improved the implementation, coordination and reporting and monitoring of the program.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The FSAC was comprised two tranches of SDR 6 million each. There was a one 9-month extension of the
Closing Date. However, during the preparation of the FSAC, it was recognized that completing the
activities incorporated in the program would be challenging and should be flexible, without strict timetables
and deadlines. There were no changes in financing during project implementation and disbursements were
handled as soon as the tranche release conditions were met.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated as highly likely (HL). The reforms supported by the FSAC have been far-reaching
and comprehensive. The associated changes have had a significant impact on the overall health of the
financial sector. Concrete and noticeable improvements have been made in banking supervision as a result
of the SDP; all banks are privately owned; and professionalism of the banking sector has improved. Most
importantly, the successful privatization of the Savings Bank has increased the confidence of the
Government in adhering to well-defined strategies and courses of action. This in turn is being evidenced by
increased public confidence in the banking system. Activities have been strongly supported by adequate
legislative changes, such as in the areas of deposit insurance, insurance and accounting. In addition, the
bankruptcy and debt resolution framework has been institutionalized, as illustrated by introduction of
materials and training programs developed under the auspices of the FSAC into curricula at the magistrates
school and university. Although more needs to be done to continue to deepen financial sector reforms,
especially in regard to effective supervision of the insurance market, these achievements are considered to
be irreversible and are expected to contribute to the growth of the private sector. The Government and the
BoA continue to be fully committed to the program articulated in the Letter of Development Policy.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
BoA has fully integrated the SDP into its commercial banking supervision plan. The IDP has been
institutionalized, and the TA program is continuing. Support for insurance sector continues through the
FSIBTA. The Government has indicated that strengthening insurance supervision is high on its agenda
and that it intends to continue to focus on addressing the shortcomings. In regard to follow up activities,
the need to focus on improving the business environment has been highlighted as a priority area in the
NSSED. Related policy actions are expected to be supported in the next generation of policy-based loans.



                                                      - 9 -

Continued attention also needs to be paid to strengthening the rule of law. The FSAP, currently underway,
is expected to identify specifically future assistance needs for financial sector development.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The program took into account the country's development priorities. It was closely
coordinated, and built strong partnerships, with the various Albanian stakeholders, IFC, IMF and other
lead donors, such as EBRD and USAID. As the executing agency for the Japanese PHRD Grant for
project preparation, Bank staff were instrumental in identifying and selecting high quality consultants to
help with preparatory activities, such as identifying a program to strengthen BART. The team included an
excellent mix of skills - insurance sector experts, banking sector and banking supervision specialists, debt
workout and bankruptcy framework experts, operational staff, accounting and financial management
experts, as well as a capital markets specialist. Of particular note was the close collaboration with the BoA
in the development of an SDP. The FSAC was developed based on solid knowledge of the sector, backed
by sector work that was incorporated in the December 1998 Country Economic Memorandum (Albania
Beyond the Crisis - A Strategy for Recovery and Growth - Report No. 18658-ALB). The design built
heavily on achievements to date and lessons learned. Given the importance of the sector, an early decision
was made to go forward with the FSAC as a free-standing policy-based operation, rather than
incorporating financial sector conditionality in a Poverty Reduction Support Credit (which was being
prepared simultaneously), and risking dilution of the financial sector reform agenda.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. Formal supervision missions were supplemented by short technical visits (especially for
insurance and banking supervision), as well as by video and audio conferences. As most staff also worked
on the related FSIBTA, synergies were realized, both in substance and cost. Furthermore, a regular and
open dialogue was maintained with the counterpart team throughout implementation of the program. Field
office staff played a critical and substantive role in the overall success of the operation. The competency of
FSAC team helped to reduce to a minimum the need for management inputs - which were available when
necessary. Project reporting has been timely and of a good quality.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. The continuity of staffing working on this program was a critical factor in the success of the
operation. The team maintained excellent working relationships with various counterparts and the quality
of the documents show that the authorities developed a high level of trust in the team.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Highly satisfactory. The Borrower's performance throughout preparation was highly satisfactory. The
Government and the BoA exhibited strong commitment to the program. The Minister of Finance and the
Governor of the BoA were strong champions who actively participated in the design of the program and
assigned a fully competent team to work on the details with the Bank. This resulted in the Government
taking full ownership of the activities. It profited from expert assistance provided under PHRD grant,
especially for development of the IDP and the elaboration of the program for strengthening BART. The
SDP was strongly and actively promoted by the BoA. The Letter of Development Policy clearly articulated
the steps that the authorities planned to take to continue and strengthen the implementation of their financial
sector reform program.




                                                       - 10 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. Initially, the authorities, given their limited capacity, clearly devoted most attention to issues
relating to the privatization of the SvB, including participation in high-level strategy discussions,
roundtables and marketing. The involvement of highest level officials was maintained throughout the
process to ensure that corrective actions (if needed) could be taken in a timely manner so that activities did
not get off track and these officials were fully available for discussions and meetings with missions.
Effective use of TA helped the authorities in their management of the program.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. Management effectiveness was satisfactory although changes in the working level
counterpart weakened monitoring during the course of implementation. This improved as soon as
corrective actions were taken by the MoF. Credit covenants were complied with and overall the program
was effectively monitored.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. The Borrower remained highly committed the financial sector reform program throughout the
period, in spite of pressures to act differently, especially in regard to options for divestiture from
government control of the SvB. The Borrower actively sought, and was receptive to, the Bank's advice.

8. Lessons Learned

Technical assistance greatly enhances the reform process, especially when it is in place prior to the
policy-based operation. The provision of timely and sufficient TA through the FSIBTA was part of the
strategy for the financial sector reform program and was instrumental in supporting the preparation and
implementation of the FSAC. The early availability of these resources facilitated the design of an operation
with strong up-front conditionality. It also served to reinforce the Government's commitment to the
program.

Clear project design and quality at entry are important. The attention paid to project design led to
development of a challenging program with realistic outcomes. It helped establish that the focus of the
program should be on capacity building and implementation, i.e. establishing a framework is not enough, if
the implementation capacity does not exist. This focus also proved helpful in keeping the reform program
on track as it facilitated good measurement of achievements over time. Furthermore, the sequencing of the
reforms is important. Given the limited capacity of the Government, it needed to concentrate on its banking
privatization program before moving ahead at full speed with other areas of financial sector reform.

Commitment of the borrower and other beneficiaries is essential for the success of a reform program.
Obtaining and maintaining real commitment and ownership for the reforms are key to the success of the
program, which is heavily dependent on effective champions. A frank and open dialogue contributed to
good understandings of the reform objectives and the specific requirements of each component. The MoF
(even though there were several changes in Ministers during the life of the operation), and the BoA
consistently displayed strong ownership of the program.

Staffing continuity facilitates implementation of the reform program. The fact that the same team
supported the development, preparation and implementation of the program was an important factor in
maintaining the focus of the operation and was key in the openness of the dialogue. The quality of this
dialogue helped establish an atmosphere of trust, as a result of which the authorities did not hesitate to
approach the team for advice and guidance.

Coordination with other IFIs should be maintained to ensure the consistency of approach. Throughout


                                                        - 11 -

the preparation and implementation of the FSAC, close coordination was maintained with the IMF to
ensure that the conditionality of the two institutions was complementary. This also helped to reinforce the
program, provide leverage for the Government in pursuing difficult or controversial agendas, particularly in
regard to privatizing the SvB. Joint meetings with IFC and EBRD in regard to the privatization strategy
for the banks and insurance company were also key to the successful implementation of this agenda.

Although synergies can be realized by involving other members of the Bank Group, extra care needs to
be taken in project design to avoid real and perceived conflicts of interest. Although the privatization of
INSIG was included in the FSAC program, it was dropped from the final conditionality because of IFC's
expected pre-privatization agreement to invest in INSIG. While retaining INSIG in the program was
important for the overall development of the financial sector, the Bank's options in regard to pursuing
conditionality relating to INSIG were limited as a potential conflict of interest could have resulted from
IFC's eventual privatization investment.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Translation of joint letter dated June 10, 2005, from the Ministry of Finance and Bank of Albania, to
Mr. Hormoz Aghdaey, FSAC Team Leader, providing the Government of Albania Assessment on the
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit Implementation

Dear Mr. Aghdaey,

Kindly find below our assessment of the process of the formulation and development of the FSAC.

The main components of this agreement focused in the reform in the financial sector, which in itself
included the key elements of this program such as:
         Continuation of the reform in the banking sector;
         Improving the legal framework regarding bankruptcy and dispute settlement;
         Reform in the financial non-banking system.

The biggest event in the banking system reform was the successful privatization of the Savings Bank from
Raiffeisen Bank.

As you are informed, the process of restructuring and privatization of state-owned banks began in 1997,
with the decision for winding down the Rural Commercial Bank (RCB) and the transfer of its assets and
liabilities to the Savings Bank. In order to ensure proper administration of non-performing assets of the
second tier banks that would embark on the privatization process, the LCA (BART) was established via
special legislation. Approximately Lek 3.6 billion non-performing assets (mainly small rural credits) were
transferred from the balance sheet of RCB to the LCA. This process was the first stage of this reform.

The second stage of the process was the restructuring and privatization of NCB. This was achieved via
important technical assistance for the rationalization and modernization of the NCB operations. In 2000,
approximately Lek 10.4 billion non-performing assets were transferred to the LCA and the bank was
recapitalized and sold to a consortium of private investors.

The third stage of the program aimed at the privatization of the Savings Bank. This is considered as the
most important event in the banking system reform, which is bringing important changes in the financial
system of Albania with regard to the diversity of banking services, as well as with regard to technology,



                                                     - 12 -

real competition, a re-dimensioning of the banks and a new mentality in their management.

The entry in the market of Raiffeisen Bank, together with the licensing of new banks has created very
appropriate conditions for real growth of market competition and improving the quantity and quality of
products delivered to the public at large. There has been a considerable increase in the level of crediting of
various sectors of economy, and a spread in the public use of modern payment instruments such as debt
and credit cards.

The LCA was also part of the FSAC agreement with clear tasks and objectives, which led to the realization
of their quantitative and qualitative indicators. Also, as a result of the objectives established in the FSAC,
for the first time the balance-sheet and financial statements of the LCA were audited, and the accounting
was brought in line with the recommendations of KPMG and internationally accepted standards.

Regarding the satisfactory results in the recovery of non-performing assets in the LCA, we would like to
point out the need for the further existence of this institution in this future and for your assistance due to the
legal deadline for the exercise of its activity until the end of 2005. To this end, keeping the LCA as an
institution that will continue to take care of paying off the remaining portfolio or the establishment of
another institution, which would include LCA in its composition, would be an alternative or another step
forward in the context of the launched reform.

Also, the Bank of Albania was directly involved in the implementation of some pre-requisites related to
FSAC. Through that, BoA managed to:
    (i) strengthen the supervision function through implementation of the matrix of actions defined in the
    Supervisory Development Plan (SDP);
    (ii) introducing the RTGS and AECH systems; and
    (iii) enhancing competition in the banking market.

As a result of the FSAC, tangible progress has been made with regard to meeting the requirements of the
SDP, which has consisted in parallel work with regard to improving the regulatory framework, and
supervision practices.

In the context of improving the regulatory framework, several existing regulations have been reviewed, as
well as some new ones have been approved. We can mention here the regulations on "Prevention of money
laundering," "External bank accountants," "Credit management," etc. The goal behind these changes and
additions was to bring the procedures and regulations closer to the best international practice.

The supervision practice has witnessed substantial improvements. Work began with the definition of the
role of supervision through the annual publication of the Supervision Mission (i.e. goal). Also, the internal
procedures for decision-making have been introduced through the approval of the Decision-Making Matrix
by the Supervisory Board of the Bank of Albania. There is in place a Document of Supervision Operational
Policies, which guides the supervisory process towards the identification and risk assessment in the banking
activity. This document also determines the supervisory actions for a bank with a given risk profile through
the supervisory cycle. Within the Supervision Department there are now clear internal procedures for the
assessment of the necessary human resources, and for the quality of the supervisory practices.

In the context of supervisory practices, importance is attached also to the direct communication with the
banking industry and the external audit firms of the banks. Contacts have increased considerably with the
banks, and there is in place an improved process of exchange of thoughts on various/different issues of
concern for both parties. External audit firms play a pivotal role in this relation. There is strengthened


                                                       - 13 -

cooperation with the supervisory authorities of other countries, as well as with other supervisory authorities
of the country's financial institutions. Thus, in line with the recommendations of the SDP cooperation
agreements have been signed in the area of supervision with the National Bank of Macedonia, and Central
Bank of Montenegro. Also, recently such an agreement has been signed with the supervisory authorities of
the financial market of the country, in concrete terms with the Supervisory Insurance Authority and the
Vouchers Commission.

The work that has taken place in the context of the SDP with the World Bank experts has been very
precious help in the context of the preparations and developments for FSAP carried out through
February-March 2005 by the World Bank and IMF. We have seen the draft report of this program, and
observe that its evaluations and recommendations reflect realistically the situation of our financial system,
presenting the progress and the main directions for developments.

Based on the progress in both fronts, we are convinced that today we closer to the international standards in
this area, and we have a proactive supervisory function. We have noticed a positive reaction regarding
these developments by the banking industry and other important institutions in this direction. We would like
to reiterate that progress has been periodically monitored by the WB experts, whom we would like to thank
for their professionalism and dedication. Even though the progress of the plan can be considered successful,
we are convinced that its requirements will stand the test of time, and require our maximal attention for the
consolidation of achieved progress, and further improvements. In this context, we are introducing a series
of important changes to the law on the "Banks in the Republic of Albania".

The implementation of the project for the development of the inter-banking payments system was
successful. Thanks to the assistance of the World Bank in January 2004 was introduced the RTGS, and
within this year it is expected to be completed the AECH. With the finalization of this latter, we can say
that Albania has put in place a secure and efficient banking system.

Important developments have also taken place in the area of banking competition, and which are related to
change in the mosaique of banking institutions, and to a more appropriate environment for interest rates.

Entry in the market of Raiffeisen Bank and the licensing of new banks has created better conditions for
increasing real market competition and improving the quality and quantity of banking products offered to
the broad public. There is an increased level of crediting of different sectors of economy, extensive use of
modern payment instruments, and debt and credit cards, more ATM stalls and opening of new branches
and agencies (30 in only the course of 2004) in the entire country, and even in some areas where there was
no banking presence in the past. Increased competition might put bank capital under pressure. To this end,
the Supervisory Council of BoA decided to ask for an increase of mandatory minimal capital for opening a
bank from Lek 700 million to Lek 1 billion. This change applies to all the existing banks which should meet
this requirement by end of 2007.

Despite the substantial increase in credit, the difference between credit interest rates and deposits interest
rates is more or less at stable levels. We believe that this fact should be interpreted taking into
consideration the gradual change of the credit structure regarding the credit terms and types. Increased
number of medium to long term credits and quality of the consumer credits, which usually have higher
interest rates, could be factors that result in a sustainable/stable difference of interest rates. However, there
is need to monitor the quality of the credits on a continuous basis, and that bank qualitative products be
offered to the broad public even more than now, with real opportunities for cooperation with the banking
system.




                                                       - 14 -

In addition to the above, as a result of meeting the FSAC objectives the Deposit Insurance Agency (DIA)
was established and satisfactory progress has been made in the implementation of the financial plan.
Through the monitorable indicators was made possible: capitalization of the DIA according to the
determined levels; development of staff at the determined levels; projecting an adequate budget and
formulation of a 3 years financing plan for the DIA. Furthermore, considerable program has been made
with regard to the operational activity of DIA.

What remains to be done in the future is for the DIA to strengthen its mechanisms of internal control and
clarify in every operational policy, the responsibilities and obligations of the departments and staff,
including the Chief Executive Officer. Furthermore, the existing Memorandum of Understanding with the
Bank of Albania will be improved to make sure that DIA is in a position to meet the statutory objective
according to the law.

Progress has also been made in the insurance sector. In addition to the successful completion of the first
stage of the privatization of INSIG, a new piece of legislation followed this reform, which is considered
satisfactory and in line with the EU standards. The duties left behind by the aide memoire of the FSAC
mission by end of 2004 have been given full priority and consequently the entire TPL system is being
reviewed. To this end, two foreign advisors are working in parallel with the formulation of the methodology
for the technical reserve and the new law on mandatory insurance. Also, most of the regulations and
Council of Ministers' decisions have been approved. This reform has been extended also in a new scheme
for mandatory insurance premia, and another one for the proper management and concentration of border
police. It goes without saying that the reform will also continue in the future, and for this we will be in need
of more assistance.

Part of the FSAC components was also the bankruptcy framework. The working group had to work
intensively to meet this goal. As a result, we have the manual on "Albanian bankruptcy legislation", which
comprises a part on liquidation and one on re-organization. The process was followed with the organization
of trainings in the School for Magistrates, the workshop for the training of trainers, workshops for all levels
of judges that will be involved in the bankruptcy procedures etc., and will continue with higher levels of
training up to the European Bankruptcy Courts. The process of training of the judges is ongoing, and work
is underway for the selection of administrators and their training. The funds to this end are being negotiated
with GtZ. This process is going to be followed with priority by the Working Group also given that our
representative Mr. Cifligu is now the General Director of the Codification Department in the Ministry of
Justice.

The implementation of a program for the formulation of the national accounting standards was yet another
priority of FSAC, which is expected to be finalized by end of June. The National Accounting Council is
now in place, and there is a regulation for the functioning of it. A draft for the legal framework for the
accounting profession is also underway. The first phase of training of 60 trainers has been finalized, and
the process is due to complete by end of June. The Ministry of Finance will also need further assistance for
the explanation and translation of the International Accounting Standards, and for implementing a system
in line with the required rules and standards.

By way of concluding, we would like to convey to you our highest considerations for the entire mission that
has been closely working with the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Albania in meeting the objectives
defined in the FSAC Agreement.
Thank you for your cooperation,
Sincerely        Signed: Arben Malaj               Ardian Fullani
                          Minister                 Governor


                                                      - 15 -

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Table 1-4 provide more detailed information on the banking system in Albania. It is worth noting the
increase in deposits and the increase in lending, to both the corporate and household sector, and the decline
in interest rates since 2000. These reflect the increasing confidence in the banking sector. The interest rate
margin has also declined significantly since 2000, although it has fluctuated in the last few years. Part of
the reason for the increase in the spread in 2004 reportedly is due to the growth of longer term loans and
the more significant engagement of the banking sector in lending activities.

                 Table 1: Aggregate Balance Sheet of the Banking System (in millions of Lek)
                                                                         2002           2003  2004 (Nov)
Assets
    Treasury and interbank transactions                             273,615.69    285,982.76  320,962.53
       Cash                                                           6,843.29       7,590.42   8,549.69
       Transactions with central bank                                29,665.67     32,614.14   37,160.64
         of which: required reserves                                 26,323.64     31,375.02   35,433.21
       Treasury Bills                                               174,978.47    185,406.98  196,043.70
       Transactions with banks of other FIs                          62,128.25     60,371.23   79,208.50
    Operations with customers (gross)                                38,707.97     50,599.27   65,530.52
       Loans to private sector and housholds                         37,057.15     47,900.17   61,201.06
         of which: real estate loans                                  6,531.45       7,877.49  10,247.83
    Securities transactions                                          16,887.60     20,280.61   19,545.57
    Provisions                                                       -1,121.80      -1,495.09  -1,905.37
    Other Assets                                                     11,215.52     18,266.98   18,991.60

TOTAL ASSETS                                                        339,304.98    373,634.54  423,124.84

Liabilities
    Treasury and interbank transactions                              17,857.91     16,465.25   16,177.39
         of which: Deposits from banks and other FIs                 10,433.72     11,720.30   10,697.47
    Operations with customers                                       285,132.57    326,830.66  369,402.63
       Public administration                                          4,517.64       3,456.35   3,300.20
       Private Sector                                               280,614.93    323,374.31  366,102.43
        of which: current accounts                                   36,271.57     37,824.42   45,745.19
                 demand deposits                                      9,642.03     11,163.35   18,074.40
                 time deposits                                      227,543.79    265,911.23  293,234.72
    Other Liabilities                                                13,734.00       7,316.62  10,101.51
    Permanent resources                                              22,580.49     23,022.00   27,443.32
         of which: Shareholder equity                                21,592.21     21,984.96   26,471.69

TOTAL LIABILITIES                                                   339,304.98    373,634.54  423,124.84


    Memorandum:              Foreign currency assets                127,168.55    135,597.85  161,462.69
                             Foreign currency liabailities          124,282.49    134,008.02  159,010.29
    source: Bank of Albania




                                                            - 16 -

                        Table 2. Data on the Albania banking system (in percent)
                                                             2000  2001    2002    2003   2004

     Depth of the banking system
     Total banking assets/GDP                                 50     54      52     52     52
     Lending/GDP                                               5       5      6      7      8
     Deposits/GDP                                             43     46      43     45     45

     Concentration
      Assets of the 3 largest banks/banking system            79.6  74.8    71.6   70.3    69.2
      Equity capital of the 3 largest banks/banking system  102.1   42.3    44.3   44.2    45.5
      Lending of the 3 largest banks/banking system           39.5  67.3    62.3   53.6    46.5
      Deposits in the 3 largest banks/banking system          83.4  80.3    76.8   75.2    73.1

     O wnership as a ratio of assets
     State-0wned banks                                        64.8  59.2    54.1   51.9     0.0
     Joint-venture banks                                       6.2    5.8    5.6    5.3     4.7
     Private capital banks                                    29.0  35.0    40.3   42.7    95.3

     Capital adequacy ratio                                   42.0  35.3    31.6   28.5    21.6

     Source: Bank of Albania data




Table 3. Interest rate margins, return on assets, return on equity (in percent, unless otherwise indicated)
                                                                     2000     2001     2002     2003   2004

Interest rate margin                                                16.47      6.04     7.87     5.05   8.70
              Average w eighted nominal lending rate                23.56    13.19     16.10    11.34  13.71
              Average w eighted nominal deposit rate                 7.09      7.16     8.23     6.29   5.00
Return on assets (ROAA)                                                2.1      1.5      1.2      1.2    1.3
Return on equity (ROEA)                                              20.7      21.6     19.1     19.5   21.1

Total number of employees                                          2,676     2,608      n/a    2,236  2,816
Total net assets/total number of employees (in million Lek)        101.2     122.1      n/a    167.1  151.4

Source: Bank of Albania data




                  Table 4. Lending to households and corporate sector in million Lek

                                                                   Household      Corporate
                               Year                                  Lending        Lending

                                2000                                 9,540.54      16,026.07
                                2001                                 4,264.43      23,461.72
                                2002                                 7,197.14      31,711.54
                                2003                               12,427.35       38,242.55
                                2004                               21,753.85       48,278.74
                Source: Bank of Albania data




                                                            - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Objective:
Support the Government 's program to          Satisfactory. Expected to be fully met.        Satisfactory. Fully met.
consolidate and take reforms in the financial
sector beyond achievements to date to foster
better engagement of the financial sector in
the development of the Albanian economy.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Finalization of SvB sale through signature of Contract for sale of 100% of SvB concluded     Completed and Raiffeisen actively developing
contract for sale of not less than 50% + 1 of with Raiffeisen Austria in January 2004, bank  banking products and services
SvB's shares                                  handover in April 2004.
Establishment of the DIA and satisfactory     Condition met. Implementation progressing      Condition met. Implementation progressing
progress in implementing its financing plan   well; 3-year financing plan approved and is    well; 3-year financing plan approved and is
                                              being implemented satisfactorily.              being implemented satisfactorily.
Satisfactory implementation of the SDP        Condition met. Excellent progress by BoA in Condition met and exceeded.
                                              implementing the SDP.
Satisfactory progress in implementation of    Condition partially met. Implementation of the Condition met. Manual and initial training
the IDP for bankruptcy enforcement and        program has gained momentum.                   completed in December 2004.
secured financing
Satisfactory implementation of Strategic and Condition met. Lek 7.1 million - 35.8 percent Condition met. Lek 7.5 million - 37.9 percent
Business plan for BART, including divestiture of the value of the portfolio was divested.    of the value of the portfolio was divested at
of 15% of its portfolio value                                                                end 2004.
Enactment of satisfactory insurance           Not fully met. New Laws on Insurance and       Condition met. Law amended in December
legislation                                   Reinsurance, and on the Operation of the       2004.
                                              Insurance Supervisory Agency were
                                              approved in September 2004. Although they
                                              substantially comply with minimum
                                              requirements of modern good practice, some
                                              amendments to Law on Insurance and
                                              Reinsurance required for make this law
                                              satisfactory to IDA.
Establishment of an insurance regulatory      Condition substantially met.                   Condition met.
agency with budgetary and operational
independence, satisfactory to IDA

1End of project




                                                                  - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                Appraisal      Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                Estimate         Estimate            Appraisal
                        Component                              US$ million      US$ million
First tranche (following Board Approval)                            7.50              7.93                100
Second tranche                                                      7.50              9.24                100

Total Baseline Cost                                               15.00              17.17
                          Total Project Costs                     15.00              17.17
                    Total Financing Required                      15.00              17.17
Note: the difference in costs between "appraisal" and "actual" results from exchange rate fluctuations
between the US$ and the SDR.




                                                  - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

not applicable




                                      - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              01/28/2001                4    Mission Leader (1) ; banking
                                             sector (1)
              07/09/2001                7    Mission leader (1), banking
                                             supervision (1) Banking Sector
                                             (1), Legal expert (1), Sr.
                                             Operations Officer (2), Capital
                                             Markets (1)
              10/25/2001                3    Sr. Operations Officer (2),
                                             Banking Sector, Accounting
              12/15/2001                5    Mission Leader (1), Sr. Oper.
                                             Officer (1), Banking Sector (2),
                                             Accounting

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/02/2002                4    Mission Leader (1), Sr.Oper.
                                             Officer (2); Financial
                                             Management/Accounting (1)
                                        3    Insurance (1), banking
                                             supervision (2)

 Supervision
              10/03/2002                1     Insurance Sector
              (technical)
              10/27/2002                5    Mission Leader (1); TTL               S               S
                                             FSIBTA(1); Sr. Oper. Officer
                                             (1); Banking Supervision (2)
              02/14/2003                5    Mission Leader (1); Banking           S               S
                                             Reform (1); Sr. Oper. Officer
                                             (1); Deposit Insurance (1);
                                             Banking Supervision (1)
              10/28/2003                5    Task Team Leader (1); Banking         S               S
                                             Reform (1); Sr. Oper. Officer
                                             (1); Deposit Insurance (1);
                                             Banking Supervision (1)
              05/26/2004                1    Insurance (1)
              (technical)
              06/18/2004                4    Task Team Leader (1); Banking         S               S
                                             Reform (1); Sr. Oper. Officer
                                             (1); Deposit Insurance (1);
                                             Banking Supervision (1)
              09/14/2004                1    Insurance
              (technical)
              10/15/2004                4    Task Team Leader (1);                 S               S
                                             Operations - CU (1); Banking
                                             Supervision (1);
                                             Operations/Banking (1),



                                              - 21 -

                                           Insurance (1)


 ICR
               02/21/2005             2     Banking Sector (1), Sr.
                                            Operations Officer (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                          372.2
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                               200.6
  Supervision                                                         261.3
  ICR
  Total




                                            - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Documents: President's Report, Development Credit Agreement, Tranche Release Documents

Banking Supervision - Supervisory Development Plan

Bankruptcy and Debt Resolution Framework - Institutional Development Plan

OED Albania Country Assistance Evaluation (January 31, 2005)




                                                - 25 -

- 26 -

