               ALBANIA FinancialSector AdjustmentCredit(Credit No. 3669)
                           -
                         Release of the SecondTranche -FullCompliance



                                      I. BACKGROUND

 1.      Although the democratic and economic transformation in Albania began later than in
 other Central and Eastern European countries, the implementation o f the initial phase o f reforms
 was rapid. GDP grew at about 9 percent per annum inreal terms from 1993 to 1996, inflation
 was brought down substantially and current account balance and the fiscal deficit improved
 significantly. Reforms inthe public administrationand financial sectors, however, advanced at a
much slower pace. By early 1996, structural reforms had stalled, especially inthe critical area o f
banking, evident in the lack o f progress in resolution o f the problems inthe state-owned banks,
 and infurther development and enforcement o fbankingregulation and supervision.

2.       The inadequacy o f the financial system, especially its regulatory and supervisory
 framework, led to the proliferation o f informal financial arrangements including pyramid
 schemes, the collapse o f whch triggered the civil crisis o f 1997, causing the fall o f the
government and precipitating new elections. The economic fallout from the crisis was severe,
with GDP contracting by 7 percent and inflation increasing to over 40 percent in 1997. The
government, which took office after the elections o f July 1997, quickly re-established
macroeconomic control and started implementation o f a broad-based program o f reforms in the
public administration and financial sectors, including institution-building, civil sector reform,
and divestiture/privatization of state-owned banks. Successive governments maintained this
commitment to macroeconomic stability and structural reforms, with support from the
internationaldonor community led by IDA and the IMF.

3.      The FSAC i s a continuation o f support for the Government o f Albania's financial sector
reforms as elaborated inthe Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy. It was designed to support
the implementation o f the final phase o f the State's divestiture from the financial sector and to
change the State's role from an owner to a regulator. The FSAC supported this transition by
helping to improve the legal and institutional framework necessary for functioning o f a market
based financial sector, which i s critical for sustaining the long-term impact o f the structural
reforms and growth. Reforms outside o f the financial sector were supported by a series o f
Poverty Reduction Support Credits the first ,of which was approved by the Board at the same
time as the FSAC.

4.      The implementation o f the FSAC-supportedprogram started well, but faced an early set
back due to the failed first attempt to privatize the Savings Bank o f Albania, largely due to the
unfavorable state o f internationalfinancial markets. Progress was, however, made inother areas,
including in the establishment and operation o f the Deposit Insurance Agency and in the
strengthening o f banking regulation and supervision. Progress gained further momentum in
2004, following privatization o f the Savings Bank, which allowed the authorities to refocus their
energies on other elements o f the program. The Government has met its obligations under the
FSAC and has indicated its intention to continue with the overall reforms beyond the FSAC
Closing Date o f December 3I,2004.

                                                  2


                           11.    RECENTECONOMICDEVELOPMENTS

 5.     Albania experienced high levels o f economic growth over recent years with real GDP
growing at an average 7 percent annually over the period 1999-2003. After a slowdown in2002,
causedby electricity shortages and floods, growth recovered to 6 percent in2003 and i s expected
to reach the same level in2004. The major contributing factor to the growth momentum was the
gradual increase in domestic demand. Consumption and investment were supported by growing
real incomes generated by external flows o f aid, remittances and foreign direct investment (FDI).
The recent pick-up in output growth also resulted from an acceleration in merchandise exports,
which increased by 25 percent in 2001-2003, with a noted expansion in exports o f textiles and
footwear. A growing demand for Albania's exports in EU markets contributed to the growth
momentum over the last two years. Improvements in power supply resulting from favorable
weather conditions and progress in the restructuring o f the power sector have also helped to
support output growth.

6.      Low inflation has complemented Albania's good macroeconomic performance, due to the
BOA'Stight monetary policy. The annual inflation rate has not exceeded the 2-4 percent target
range since 2002. There has been a steady appreciation o f Albania's national currency (Lek). In
addition to the tight monetary policy, high volumes o f remittances, large inflows o f external
financial assistance, and foreign direct investment have contributed to the strengthening o f the
Lek.

7.      Economic growth i s projected to remain strong in the medium term, with GDP growing
at an annual rate close to 6 percent on average during 2004-07. Inflation will be maintained in
its current 2-4 percent target range through sound fiscal and monetarypolicies. The fiscal deficit
will be reduced to below 5 percent o f GDP in2007. Provided that substantial improvements are
made inthe business environment, and that the energy sector reforms are pursued, an increase in
exports and private sector activity i s expected to sustain growth in the next three years. Total
investment i s expected to reach about 28 percent o f GDP in2007.

8.      The current account deficit i s expected to improve over the medium term. Large public
and private investment needs suggest, however, that improvements in the current account may
come only slowly, and would mainly result from further fiscal consolidation. Reforms aimed at
enhancing the efficiency o f public expenditures and curtailing general subsidies in the utilities
sector could improve public savings and thus reduce the savings-investment gap. Depending on
progress in governance and the improvement o f the business climate, sustained FDI inflows
would keep external debt at moderate levels.

      111.    PROGRESSAGAINST SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE CONDITIONS

9.      DCA, Section 2.02(d)(i). The progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of
theProgram is satisfactory to the Association. This conditionhasbeen met.

10.     Although implementation has taken longer than anticipated, satisfactory progress has
been made in the overall implementation o f the program, thereby meeting the condition o f
second tranche release. With the recent privatization o f the Savings Bank, Albania boasts a

                                                  3


 healthy, 100 percent privately owned, competitive banking sector poised to provide improved
  services to businesses and households Lending to the private sector has been increasing at a
 healthy rate, with a low level o f non-performing loans. Intermediation increased from Lek 35
 billion at end-2001 to about Lek 55 billion at end-June 2004. Going forward, intermediation i s
  expected to expand more rapidly, as, following privatization, the seven-year moratorium on
  Savings Bank lending has been lifted and the new owners have indicated plans to rapidly
 increase lending and other banking services. Other major banks are also expected to pursue
 more aggressive lending activities and newproduct development.

  11.    Inparallel with these developments, the Bank o f Albania has substantially strengthened
 its supervisory capacity through the implementationo f a more risk-based supervision process. A
 Deposit Insurance Agency has beenestablished and i s functioning properly. Substantial progress
 has been made in improving the payments system. The new interbank settlement system for
 large payments has been fully operational since January 2004 and the fully automated bulk
 clearing systemi s expected to be completed by mid-2005. Inaddition, efforts are well underway
 to strengthen the legal framework for bankruptcy and secured transactions and a collateral
 registry for movableproperty has been functioning well for over three years. Efforts have gained
 momentum in addressing the insurance regulation and supervision and satisfactory new
 legislation has been approved by Parliament and enacted per Presidential decree on December
  16,2004.

 12.     DCA, Section 2.02(d)(ii).    The macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is
 satisfactory, as measured on the basis o f indicators agreed between the Borrower and the
 Association. This conditionhas beenmet.

 13.     The IMF approved a three-year Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) program
in June 2002, to assist Albania in maintaining macroeconomic stability and financial
 sustainability.  The IMF's structural conditionality focuses on three main categories: fiscal
management and control; payments discipline; and privatization. The Government has a good
track record in maintaining macroeconomic stability through prudent fiscal and monetary
policies, as confirmed by the latest IMFreview inAugust 2004.

 14.    DCA, Schedule 2, Para I. The Borrower has signed a contract with strategic investor(s)
to finalize the sale o f at least 50 percent plus one share of the Savings Bank o f the Borrower.
This conditionhas beenmet.

15.     The contract for the sale o f 100 percent o f the Savings Bank o f Albania to Raiffeisen
Zentralbank Austria was signed in January 2004, and the final handover o f the Savings Bank
took place in April 2004. The privatization process went smoothly and benefited from the
commitment and cooperation o f all parties involved. This sale was the biggest privatization to
date in Albanian history and the revenues from the sale provided an important boost to the State
budget. I t was successful not only from the point o f view o f price, but also since the new owner
i s a major, reputable European bank whose presence in Albania would increase competition and
provision o f better banking to the business community, as well as households. The new owners
have already begun to invest substantially in IT improvements, and development o f new
corporate and consumer products, including lending andpayments services.

                                                    4



 16.     DCA, Schedule 2, Para 2. The Borrower has established its Deposit Insurance Agency
 and made satisfactory progress in implementation o f its financing program. This conditionhas
 beenmet.

 17.     The Deposit Insurance Agency (DIA, "Agency") was established under the Deposit
 Insurance Law which became effective on October 18, 2002. The model o f deposit insurance
 agency inAlbania i s the so called "payment box" where the functions o f the Agency are limited
 to collection o f admission contributions and annual premiums, the prudent management of the
 assets, and the prompt reimbursement o f insured depositors in case o f a bank failure. With 13
 employees, including the Managing Director, the DIA i s adequately staffed and appropriate rules
 and procedures are inplace for its effective operation. An initial capital o f Lek 400 million was
provided from the State budget. In addition, member banks paid a one time admission fee and
pay an annual premium of 0.5 percent o f insured deposits towards further capitalization of the
 DIA. By June 2004, the total accumulated assets were about Lek 1.7 billion, representing a
 fund-to-insured deposit ratio o f about 1.1 percent. Given the generally healthy state of the
banking sector inAlbania, it i s envisaged that there will be no major demands on these funds and
that the total assets o f the DIA will, over time, reach the prudent 5 percent ratio prescribedby the
Deposit Insurance Law. The 3-year financing plan for DIA, including the investment guidelines
 and the operating budget, has been approved and i s being implemented satisfactorily.          The
investmentpolicy, management o f financial assets, and conduct o f administrative expenses o fthe
agency are very conservative as prescribedby the Deposit Insurance Law.

 18.     DCA, Schedule2, Para 3. The Borrower has made satisfactory progress inimplementing
its Supervisory Development Plan (SDP) for banking supervision. This condition has been
met.

19.      Fulfillmentof this condition has been assessed based onthe agreed indicators established
to measure compliance with the SDP. The SDP was adopted by the BOAon March 13, 2002,
prior to Board presentation o f the Credit, and sets out the BOA'Slong-term strategy and
institutional development program for banking supervision. An overall mission statement which
captures the overarching goal o f banking supervision was approved by BOA. A Supervisory
Operating Policy, outlining and discussing the method o f bank supervision, and its roll-out over
the course o f a supervisory cycle, has also been approved. Supervisory strategies have been
prepared for all banks and have become increasingly robust.             Risk analysis, management
evaluations, and supervisory plans have improved in quality and comprehensiveness. BOA'S
communication and dialogue with the banking industry and extemal auditors has improved. The
initial implementation o f a more risk based, ongoing supervision process i s timely given the
current stage (expected increased intermediation) o f banking system evolution.

20.      The SDP i s designed to be a living document that guides longer-term process
development. Therefore, the BOAhas indicated that while meaningful compliance with the SDP
has been achieved, it intends to continue efforts to implement the SDP and improve supervision
beyond the FSAC as part of its long-term goals.

                                                    5


 21.     DCA, Schedule2, Para 4. The Borrower has made satisfactory progress inimplementing
 the InstitutionalDevelopment Program (IDP) for bankruptcy enforcement and secured financing.
 This conditionhasbeenmet.

 22.     Fulfillment o f this condition has been assessed based on two sets o f agreed indicators: (a)
 completion o f no less than three pilot cases to test the operation o f the IDP framework; and (b)
 fulfillment o f indicators specified in the IDP. The IDP was approved on April 30, 2002 by the
 Ministry of Finance and the Ministryof Justice, prior to Board presentation of the Credit, and
 sets out a program for improving enforcement o f insolvency and secured financing legislation.

 23.     The authorities have met this condition by providing evidence o f three cases which have
 been successfully concluded using the Secured Transaction Law. The satisfactory
 implementation o f the IDP hinged on availability o f donor financing which despite
 understandings did not materialize. Therefore, implementation was initially delayed but has
 recently picked up momentum.            A working group was established early on to oversee
 implementation o f the IDP. This group includes members from the Ministries o f Finance and
 Justice, as well as management o f the Magistrate School. An insolvency manual has been
 completed with World Bank Group grant funding. Based on this, manual training materials for
judicial seminars on the insolvency law have been prepared, and, inDecember 2004, a first set o f
judges have received training on liquidation and reorganization. The training material will be
 used by the magistrate school to develop a curriculum that will become a standard part of its
program for trainingjudges. The IDP i s a long-term tool and its implementationwas designed to
 continue beyond the Closing Date o f the FSAC. To this end, the authorities have reached
agreement with a bilateral donor for public dissemination o f the insolvency manual and the
provision o f training for bankruptcy administrators.      This will be an important element o f
continuing the implementation o f the IDP.

24.      DCA, Schedule 2, Para 5. The Borrower has made satisfactory progress inimplementing
a strategic and business plan for the Bank Asset Resolution Trust (BART), including resolution
o f at least 15 percent invalue o f its portfolio. This conditionhas beenmet.

25.      Fulfillment o f this condition has been assessed based on figures provided to IDA by the
Ministry o f Finance at Negotiations, adjusted to reflect the figures in BART's 2003 financial
statements. The adjustments made reflect the value of the actual transfer o f the Savings Bank
portfolio, and reduce the amount o f the portfolio originally transferred from Lek 21 billion to
Lek 19.8billion. The 2003 IASaudit report reflectsthe exact amount.

26.      Since early 2003, BART has made substantial progress in implementing the agreed
business and strategic plan. This includes structural and organizational changes, improved
procedures, and the introduction o f a "Global Scheme" for divestiture o f its assets. BART
continues to implement the Global Scheme and good progress i s being made in collection and
divestiture activities. During the last few years, BART has collected about Lek 2.9 billion in
cash which has contributed to the Government's general revenue. Inregard to divestiture, as o f
October 2004, a total o f Lek 7.8 billion, representing 39.4 percent o f the adjusted value o f the
transferred portfolio (or 37.1 percent o f the earlier reported amount o f Lek 21 billion), was
divested in a transparent manner and associated claims have been removed from BART's books.

                                                  6


27.       In addition, about 44 percent o f the portfolio has been submitted to the courts for
resolution.    BART'Ssuccess inworking out claims and enforcing its rights as a creditor has had
a positive impact on the development o f a credit culture that was previously lacking. One
indicator o f this i s the very low level o f non-performing loans being reported by the banking
sector.

28.      DCA, Schedule 2, Para 6. Satisfactory insurance legislation has been enacted. This
conditionhasbeenmet.

29.      New Laws on Insurance, Reinsurance and Brokers and on the Operation o f the Insurance
Supervisory Agency (ISA) were approved by Parliament and enacted into law by Presidential
decree in September 2004. For the most part, these two laws substantially comply with the
minimum requirements of modem good practice. However, four key areas of the Law on
Insurance and Reinsurance needed to be amended to make the law satisfactory to IDA. These
amendments, which related to reinsurance qualifications, fit and proper rules for owners and
management o f insurance companies, allowing foreign representation on management and
supervisory boards, and limitations on the general manager's ownership stake in an insurance
company, were approved by Parliament and enacted into law by Presidentialdecree inDecember
2004.

30.      Substantial improvement has been made in the development and use o f basic financial
and statistical reports, and the ISA has been using these for corrective action purposes.
However, there i s a need to develop more comprehensive statistical reporting so that technical
reserves and solvency can be monitored by ISA. Inregard to the Third Party Liability system
(TPL), an actuarially basedpremiumrating system establishing transparent guidelines for setting
premiums and reserving for TPL insurance was introduced. However, compliance with the
regulations i s weak. To remedy this situation and further strengthen supervision o f insurance
companies, the Minister o f Finance has issued orders (regulations) to enforce prudent
reinsurance practices and steps have been initiated to review the entire TPL system with a view
to implementing long-term reforms and improving enforcement. With the above amendments
and ministerial regulations, the insurance legislationi s satisfactory to IDA

31.      DCA, Schedule 2, Para 7. The Borrower has established an insurance regulatory agency
with budgetary and operational independence. This conditionhas been met.

32.      The Law on the Operation of the Insurance Supervisory Agency (ISA, formerly known as
the Albanian Insurance Supervisory Commission - AISC) i s in line with relevant requirements
o f the Intemational Association o f Insurance Supervisors (IAIS) in regard to budgetary and
operational independence. The ISA Supervisory Council, working with the State Audit Bureau,
has signed off on a business plan for the next two years. Inaddition, the Ministryo f Finance has
provided written confirmation that arrangements will be put inplace to ensure adequate funding
o f the ISA, incompliance with the Law.


                                       IV.     CONCLUSION

33.      Inview ofthe overall performance andprogress with the implementationof the program
supported by the Credit, and incompliance with the specific conditions o f release as described in
Section 2.02 (d) and Schedule 2 to the DCA, the Bank has informed the Borrower o f the
availability of the second tranche o f SDR 6 million.

