Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7543-ALB
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12 MILLION (US$15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
ALBANIA
May 23, 2002
This document has a restncted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authonzation



Currency Equivalents
(Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 2002)
Currency Unit = Lek
Lek I = US$0.007
US$1 =Lek 147
Government Fiscal Year
January I - December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric system
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AISC         -  Albanian Insurance Supervision Commission
BART         -  Bank Asset Resolution Trust (ATK)
BoA          -  Bank of Albania
CAMEL        -  Capital, Assets, Management, Earnings, Liabilities
CAS          -  Country Assistance Strategy
DIA          -  Deposit Insurance Agency
EBRD         -  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ECSPF        -  Europe and Central Asia Private and Financial Sector Development Unit
EU           -  European Union
FSAC         -  Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
FSIBTA       -  Financial Sector Institution Building Technical Assistance Project
GDP          -  Gross Domestic Product
GPRS         -  Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy
IAIS         -  International Association of Insurance Supervisors
IAS          -  International Accounting Standards
IDA          -  International Development Association
IFC          -  International Finance Corporation
IMF          -  International Monetary Fund
INSIG        -  Insurance Institute of Albania
ISA          -  International Standards on Auditing
MAE          -  Monetary Exchange and Affairs Department
MoF          -  Ministry of Finance
MoJ          -  Ministry of Justice
NCB          -  National Commercial Bank
PRGF         -  Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP         -  Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RCB          -  Rural Commercial Bank
RPTA         -  Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project
RTGS         -  Real-Time Gross Settlement
SvB          -  Savings Bank
TA           -  Technical Assistance
USAID        -  United States Agency for International Development
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Director: Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Director: Paul Siegelbaum
Team Leader: Hormoz Aghdaey



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ALBANIA
PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Albania
Amount:                    SDR 12 million (US$15 million equivalent)
Terms:                     The Credit would have a 40-year maturity, including a 1 0-year
grace period.
Objectives and Description:  The objective of the proposed credit is to support the
Government of Albania's program to consolidate and take
reforms in the financial sector beyond achievements to date to
foster better engagement of the financial sector in the
development of the Albanian economy. The proposed program
will consist of three broad components: (i) continued reform of
the banking sector including the privatization of the Savings
Bank (SvB) and further strengthening of the banking regulation
and supervision, (ii) enhancement of the bankruptcy and debt
resolution framework, and (iii) reform of the non-bank financial
sector, including further development of the regulatory and
supervisory framework for the insurance sector and the
privatization of the Insurance Institute of Albania (INSIG).
Benefits:                  The reform actions sought under the proposed credit will help
consolidate and take the reforms in the financial sector beyond
achievements to date to foster better engagement of the financial
sector in the growth and development of the Albanian economy.
Privatization of SvB to a fit and proper intemational bank will
end the engagement of the Albanian State in banking sector.
This, together with further strengthening of the banking
regulation and supervision capacities of BoA, will, in the
medium-term, help create a well-regulated competitive banking
environment. With improvements in the legal framework for
bankruptcy and secured financing and enforcement of creditors'
rights, it is hoped that, in the medium to long-term, the banks
will become active participants in financing the enterprise sector
and contribute to the long-term sustainable economic
development of Albania. Implementation of the non-bank
financial sector reforms, particularly the privatization of INSIG
and development of the regulatory and supervisory framework
for the insurance sector and improvements in financial reporting,
will help the long-term development of a more mature financial
market.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



Risks:                        The risks to the proposed FSAC could arise from the political
and macroeconomic situation, as well as the absorptive capacity.
Albania remains vulnerable to domestic or regional instability
that could derail the efforts to achieve the FSAC objectives.
This could be both in terms of delays due to political infighting,
such as the confrontation between the prime minister and the
head of the Social Party (at end-2001 and early 2002) which led
to a slowdown in the implementation of the legislative agenda of
Parliament. To help mitigate these risks, the FSAC has been
designed to ensure that key legislation is passed prior to Board
presentation.
Albania's objective to sign an Associate Membership with the
European Union, its recent agreement with the IMF and the
substantial reliance of the country on concessional donor
financing imply strong commitment to implement a stable
medium-term macro-economic program. Nevertheless, Albania
faces a major threat to its macroeconomic program due to the
continued energy crisis. Steps, however, are being taken with
assistance from IDA and other donors to remedy the situation.
The weak international financial markets could impact SvB and
INSIG  privatization.  But this risk is modest, due to the
advanced stage of SvB privatization, and IFC's agreement in
principle to proceed with a pre-privatization investment in
INSIG.
Finally, implementation of the reforms could be undermined by
the weak institutional capacity in the country. To mitigate this
risk substantial technical assistance is being provided aimed at
implementation of capacity building programs in all three areas
being supported under the FSAC. Nevertheless, this risk should
not be underestimated.
Schedule of Disbursements:    The proposed credit would be disbursed in two equal tranches of
SDR 6 million (US$7.5 million equivalent).
Poverty Category:             Not applicable
Rate of Return:               Not applicable
Project ID Number:            PE-P057818
The team for this operation consists of Hormoz Aghdaey (team leader), Rochelle Hilton (banking privatization),
Laura Ard (bank regulation and supervision), Michael Gascoyne (accounting and auditing framework and
financial mnanagement), Rodney Lester (insurance sector restructuring), Silvia Minotti (bank supervision), Greta
Minxhozi (banking resolution and country coordination), and Svitlana Lewis. Ahmed Jehani and Junko Funahashi
provided legal support. Rohit Mehta is the Disbursement Officer. Andrew Lovegrove (debt resolution) and Yair
Baranes (bankruptcy framework) supported the Government preparatory work with PHRD funding. Gordon
Johnson provided Bank guidance for this work. Peter Kyle was the peer reviewer.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED-FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO ALBANIA
Table of Contents
Introduction                 ............................................................1
PART I: OVERVIEW                                     .1
PART U:       RECENT ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE.                                              3
A. Stabilization Efforts Since 1997.                                       3
B. The Medium-Term Macroeconomic Framework.                                4
PART HI:     THE GOVERNMENT REFORM PROGRAM                    .5
Financial Sector Reform.                                                   5
A. Continued Reform of the Banking Sector.                                 8
B. Enhancement of the Bankruptcy and Debt Resolution Framework .12
C. Reform of the Non-Bank Financial Sector .17
PART IV:     THE PROPOSED CREDIT.19
A. Rationale for IDA Involvement .19
B. Coordination with the IMF and Other D orss20
C. Credit Amount and Borrower.21
D. Credit Design ..........                                               21
E. Board Conditions, Tranche Triggers and Supervision .22
F. Implementation.                                                        22
G. Financial Arrangements .23
H. Environmental Impact .23
L. Benefits and Risks .23
PART V: RECOCMNDATION .26
ANNEXES:
Annex I:       Letter of Development Policy
Annex II:      Draft Matrix of Key Actions
Annex Im:      Status of Bank Group Operations in Albania
Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
Annex IV:      Albania at a Glance






REPORT AND RECOMMEDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO ALBANIA
1.    I submit for your approval the following Report and Recommendation on a
proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC) to Albania for SDR 12 million
(US$15 million equivalent) to support the Government's financial sector reform program.
The proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
including 10 years of grace. The credit would be disbursed in two equal tranches of SDR
6 million (US$7.5 million equivalent).
2.    This Report should be read in conjunction with the "Growth and Poverty
Reduction Strategy (GPRS),"' which the Government launched in November 2001, and
the June 2002 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which is based on the GPRS. The
Albania Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (IPRSP) was discussed at the Board on
June 8, 2000 (Document #IDA/SecM2000-263). These documents emphasize the
importance of continued implementation the structural reforms for the achievement of the
country's long-term growth and poverty reduction goals. Both the GPRS and the CAS
are scheduled to be discussed by the Board concurrently with this operation.
I. OVERVIEW
3.    Although the democratic and economic transformation in Albania began later than
in other Central and Eastern European countries, the implementation of the initial phase
of reforms was rapid and impressive. GDP grew at about 9 percent per annum in real
terms from 1993 to 1996, inflation was brought down substantially and both the current
account balance and the fiscal deficit improved significantly (Table 1).2 Reforms in the
public administration and financial sectors, however, advanced at a much slower pace.
By early 1996, it was clear that many problems had not been resolved, and others were
emerging. Structural reforms had stalled, especially in the critical area of banking,
evident by the lack of progress in resolution of the problems in the state-owned banks,
and in further development and enforcement of banking regulation and supervision.
4.    Despite some initial efforts at reforms, the institutional and financial infrastructure
was unable to adequately support sound credit practices and the effective functioning of
INational Strategyfor Socio-Economic Development (GPRS), Republic of Albania, Council of Ministers,
Novembe; 2001. The title Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy was used during preparation of the
document, which was then publicly launched as the National Strategy for Socio-Economic Development.
2 For a detailed discussion of the Albanian economy during the early years of transition, see "Albania
Beyond the Crisis, " Country Economic Memorandum, December 1998.



2
the market. The legal system remained underdeveloped and could not effectively enforce
contracts. Comprehensive and well-defined accounting principles based on International
Accounting Standards (IAS) were not introduced and, hence, accurate and transparent
information on the financial performance of banks and enterprises was not available. The
existing paper-based payments system was functioning very inefficiently.
5.    Due to the weakness of the regulatory and institutional framework, there was
insufficient information on which to base credit and investment decisions. Effective
systems for internal risk management and control, with strict accountability to owners,
directors and senior management, were not fully developed and enforced. Financial
institutions were not adequately supervised and even the most basic regulations such as
those ensuring adequacy of risk capital were not enforced. At the same time, the
supervisory and regulatory authorities did not have adequate skills, resources and
independence from political interference to perform their functions.
6.    The inadequacy of the financial system, especially its regulatory and supervisory
framework, led to the proliferation of informal financial arrangements including pyramid
schemes, the collapse of which triggered the civil crisis of 1997. Civil unrest broke out in
February 1997, and spread quickly across Albania, causing the fall of the government and
precipitating new elections. The economic fallout from the crisis was severe, with GDP
contracting by 7 percent and inflation increasing to over 40 percent in 1997. The
Government, which took office after the elections of July 1997, quickly re-established
macroeconomic control and, in late 1997, started the implementation of a broad-based
program of reforms in the public administration and financial sectors, including
institution-building, civil sector reform, and divestiture/privatization of state-owned
banks. Successive governments have maintained this commitment to macroeconomic
stability and structural reforms, with support from the international donor community led
by IDA and the IMF.
7.    In mid-2001, Albania held parliamentary elections, monitored by international
observers. These elections were won by the Socialist Party resulting in the reappointment
of the Prime Minister, but late in 2001, internal disagreement within the ruling Socialist
Party led to the resignation of four key ministers including those of finance and
privatization. A compromise was reached and a new government was formed at end-
February 2002. The new Government has confirmed its intention to proceed with the
implementation of the previously agreed reform program.



3
II. RECENT ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE3
A.      Stabilization Efforts Since 1997
8.    Economic performance has been strong in the aftermath of the 1997 crisis, with
growth averaging about 7 percent a year and inflation at low levels. This includes 1999,
when the influx of Kosovo refugees put a heavy strain on Albania's economic and
administrative capacity. The Government and the Bank of Albania (BoA) have been
successfully implementing the program of macroeconomic and structural reforms. The
domestically financed fiscal deficit decreased significantly during 1998-2000, as
expenditures were contained and revenue collection improved. The current account
deficit also improved and foreign exchange reserves were maintained at about four
months of imports. By the end of the 1990s, Albania had roughly regained its end-1980s'
GDP level. The private sector accounted for over 85 percent of GDP and over 80 percent
of employment. Agriculture had become the dominant sector, accounting for over 50
percent of GDP, followed by services and construction.
9.    Albania's strong macroeconomic performance continued in 2001. The current
account deficit stayed at around 6.3 percent of GDP. The overall fiscal deficit further
declined to about 8.5 percent of GDP and domestic bank financing of the fiscal deficit
was contained at about 3.1 percent of GDP. Inflation was about 3.5 percent and output
growth 6.5 percent for the year as a whole. Economic performance during the first
quarter of 2002 has been mostly favorable despite weak agricultural growth and the
worsening electricity situation.
Table 1: Macroeconomic Indicators, 1991-2001
(annual averages, percent)
1991-92   1993-96     1997   1998-2000     2001
Real GDP growth                -17.6        9.3     -7.0       7.7        6.5
Inflation                       170.5      17.5     42.1       4.0        3.5
Current account deficit (% GDP)  -61.1    -15.1    -12.1      -6.8       -6.3
Fiscal deficit (% GDP)         -25.8      -11.4    -12.9      -10.3      -8.5
Source: Ministry of Finance; staff estimates
10.   Despite a relatively liberal regime adopted by the Government, in 1999 FDI
amounted to only US$51 million (about 1.5 percent of GDP), almost the 1997 level. FDI
figures were substantially higher in 2000 (US$143 million) and 2001 (US$204 million),
mainly due to receipts from the privatization of Albanian Mobile Communication (AMC)
and the National Commercial Bank (NCB), as well as from the sale of the second mobile
communications license.4
3 The macroeconomic performance is discussed more fully in the President's Report for the proposed
Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit.
4 The FDI situation should improve in 2002 due to privatization receipts from SvB and possibly INSIG.



4
B.     The Medium-term Macroeconomic Framework
11.   Albania's prospects for growth, development and poverty reduction are good,
especially in view of a more favorable political climate in parts of Southeastern Europe
and enhanced prospects for a closer association with the European Union, as well as the
Government's intention to continue with structural reforns.  In the medium term,
economic growth is projected to remain strong, with GDP growing by about 6-7 percent a
year (Table 2). An increase in exports and private sector activities is expected to lead
growth during this period. The implementation of structural reforms, particularly in the
enterprise and financial sectors, will be a crucial element in fostering private sector
activities, which will boost this growth. Reforms in the energy sector, that are expected to
significantly reduce the current gap between demand and supply, are a necessary
precondition for this performance. Albania's strong growth outlook should provide the
country with resources to meet its pressing needs in education, health and infrastructure,
and should also contribute to attracting investment, creating employment opportunities
and reducing poverty.
12.   Exports and private remittances are projected to continue to play an important role
in supporting growth, given Albania's proximity to the rest of Europe and its low cost
labor force. Export growth is expected to strengthen following the transfer of key
enterprises to strategic foreign investors (e.g., copper, chromium) as well as increases in
exports of shoes and textiles. The openness of the economy has contributed to improved
domestic production and is expected to lead to increased exports. Imports are projected
to grow, reflecting a higher demand for capital equipment associated with stronger
investment activities, but at a slower pace than exports. As a result, the current account
deficit as a percentage of GDP is projected to decline and stabilize at more sustainable
levels in the first half of this decade. Albania's recent accession to the World Trade
Organization is expected to strengthen its trade policy and provide further incentives for
increased investment.
Table 2: Macroeconomic Framework, 2000-2005 (in percent)
2000     2001   2002   2003  2004   2005
Real GDP growth                  7.8      6.5     6.0    7.0   7.0    6 5
Inflation                        4.2      3 5     3.9    3 0    3.0   3.0
Current account balance (% of GDP)  -7 2  -6.3   -8.2   -7.1   -6.2  -5.4
Fiscal balance                   -9.1    -8.5    -8.1   -7.2   -6.5  -6.0
Sources: Ministry of Finance and staff projections.
13.   Consolidating and deepening the implementation of key reformn measures will be
needed to improve the overall climate for growth and private sector development. Public
expenditure management reform has to be a key element of the Government program. In
particular, capacities for policy development need to be strengthened, closer linkages
between policy objectives and expenditures and better intergovernmental fiscal relations
need to be developed. Service delivery needs to be improved and policy monitoring and
evaluation needs to be strengthened. In addition, accountability mechanisms need to be



5
enhanced to allow Albania to fight corruption, encourage high levels of investment-
particularly foreign direct investment-maintain fiscal discipline, and ensure that
resources are used efficiently and transparently. Attainment of these objectives would be
crucial not only to sustain growth and reduce poverty but also to facilitate integration with
the European economy.
14.   A major internal threat to macroeconomic stability continues to be the electricity
shortage. The targets for improving the financial position of KESH, the electricity
company, have been broadly met, and the authorities have taken concrete steps to
introduce a viable tariff system. However, in spite of the authorities' efforts to ensure
that planned imports are realized in a timely manner, serious electricity shortages
continued throughout the severe winter. IDA is working closely with the authorities to
alleviate this situation through technical advice and funding. Subsidies for electricity
imports are expected to be a maximum of Lek 3.7 billion in 2002.
III. THE GOVERNMENT REFORM PROGRAM
15.   The reform program of the Govermnent has been formulated as part of its GPRS.
The far-reaching goals of the strategy are transition to a market economy, long-term
sustainability and European integration. As part of the transition towards a market
economy, the most important objectives include: (i) completion of the privatization
process of industrial enterprises, public services, and financial institutions; (ii)
consolidation of reforms in the banking system and establishment of a capital market; (iii)
deepening of market institutionalization, including property rights' consolidation,
promotion of competition, and consumer protection; and (iv) deepening reform and
modernization of state institutions according to the standards of a democratic society and
a market-oriented economy. With regard to the financial sector, the GPRS reflects a
continuation of the strategy which the Government adopted and has been implementing
since late 1997, with support from IDA and the intemational donor community.5
Financial Sector Reform
16.   A major component of the Government's program is financial sector reform, with
a view to the divestiture of the State from the banking and insurance sectors and the
establishment of sound govemance structures in the financial institutions. Its first priority
has been the revival of banking sector reforms, which are now well underway. Results to
date have been uneven but generally encouraging. These achievements have required
substantial coordination efforts by the MoF and the BoA and the provision of donor-
financed technical assistance (TA). Implementation of the Government's reform strategy
5Due to Albania's agrarian nature and demographics, extension of rural and urban micro credits have been
a key factor in the IDA's and other donors' assistance strategy for intermnediation to private individuals and
srmall business.



6
(following the collapse of the pyramid schemes in 1997), together with macroeconomic
stability and growth, has contributed to the restoration of confidence in the banking
system.   Aggregate household deposits have increased substantially.     In addition,
although the state-owned banks have been under a lending moratorium, the aggregate
interrnediation levels have increased, due to more active lending policies adopted by the
private commercial banks and a gradual increase in competition. In 2000, the rate of
growth for total assets, deposits and Treasury-bills (T-bills) for the private banks far
exceeded that of the Savings Bank (SvB) and the newly privatized NCB. New
regulations approved in 1999 to develop a liquid Treasury-bill market have increased the
demand of T-bills by market participants despite the decreasing interest rates.
Table 3: Structure of the Albanian Banking System (June 2001)
SvB     NCB   Tirana    Others    Total
_______Bank
Number of Banks                                                         10       13
Total Assets (Lek million)               175,921   27,910  17,608    65,502  286,941
Total Assets (%)                            61.3      9.7     6.1      22.9     100
T-Bills (Lek million)                    126,882    13,668  7,295     8,851  156,696
T-Bills (% of total)                        81.0      8.7     4.7       5.6     100
Total Equity (Lek million)                 5,570    1,800   1,539    10,797   19,706
Total Deposits (Lek million)             165,840   25,348  13,286    46,405  250,879
Of which household deposits:
Lek niillion                          147,929   16,881  9,047    34,372  208,229
Percentage                              71.0      8.1     4.4      16.5     100
Majority Ownership                        State   Private  Private  Private
Table 4: Albanian Banking System (in Lek millions)
DEPOSITS                 ASSETS                  T-BILLS
1999    2000   change   1999    2000   change   1999    2000  change
State banks  171,965  173,772  1.1%  187,291  192,015  2.5%  105,801  105,5191  2.6%
Private banks  28,469  47,055  65.3%  42,311  68,557  62.0%    3,505   9,983    184.8
System       200,434 L 220,827  10.2%  229,603 260,572  13.5%  109,306 118,502  84%/
State-owned banks include the Savings Bank and the National Commercial Bank.
17.    Although SvB still has a dominant position, its share in the deposit market
declined from 75 percent in 1999 to 66.1 percent in June 2001, and that in the T-bill
market from 92 percent in 1999 to 81 percent in June 2001. SvB's total assets (as a
percentage of the system total assets) decreased from 72 percent in 1998 to 61.3 percent
in 2001.
18.   In 1997, there were three state-owned banks in Albania, which together accounted
for about 90 percent of the banking system assets and same percent of deposits. All three
were insolvent due to their large problem portfolios caused by poor lending practices



7
exacerbated by political interference. Purchase of T-Bills to finance the budget, the main
function of all three banks at that time, was a loss-making activity at the margin.6 The
system additionally included five small foreign or joint venture banks with no branch
network.7 These banks focused mainly on providing high-end corporate services to their
clients. Financial intermediation to the private sector was very low at about 1 percent of
GDP per year (at the end of 1996, the stock of outstanding loans to the private sector was
about 4 percent of GDP).
19.    Shortly after taking office in 1997, the Government adopted, in consultation with
IDA and the IMF, an ambitious program to cease all lending activities of the state-owned
banks, and to divest itself from the banking sector. In line with this program, it
immediately liquidated the Rural Commercial Bank (RCB), undertook to offer the
National Commercial Bank (NCB) for privatization within a one year time-frame and put
SvB under a tight govemance contract with a view to its privatization by the end of 2000.
This timetable proved to be overoptimistic and did not adequately take into account the
inherent delays in privatization transactions and the Government's implementation
capacity. Nevertheless, the authorities have made substantial progress in implementing
this element of their program and their commitment to the overall objective remains
unchanged. RCB was liquidated in December 1997; privatization of NCB was concluded
in October 2000; and SvB was until recently under a governance contract which
prohibited it from lending and prescribed steps to be followed in preparing the bank for
privatization.8 The cost of financial restructuring of the banks in preparation for
divestiture has amounted to about Lek 24.6 billion and implementation of this program
has required substantial technical assistance. Two IDA credits (the Recovery Program
Technical Assistance Project-RPTA-and the Financial Sector Institution Building
Technical Assistance Project-FSIBTA) have financed, and continue to finance, these
efforts.
20.     Going forward, the financial sector reformn has the following components: (i)
continued reform of the banking sector, including privatization of SvB and further
strengthening of banking regulation and supervision; (ii) enhancement of the bankruptcy
and debt resolution framework; (iii) reform of the non-bank financial sector, including
further development of the legal, regulatory and supervisory frameworks for the insurance
sector and privatization of the Insurance Institute of Albania (INSIG).9
6 In September 1997, the BoA had a mandatory floor interest rate of 37 percent on savings deposits for the
three state-owned banks, with a reserve requirement of 10 percent; the rate for 3-month T-BilIs was 35
percent.
7There are now 13 banks.
8 Although the SvB is not currently under a governance contract, it continues to operate under this
agreement, including a full lending moratorium
9 Micro-credit programs, another important element of the Govenmment's strategy, are among the most
successful in the region. Over the last ten years, over 20,000 small farmers and urban micro-entrepreneurs
in Albania have received mnicro-loans. Repayment rates have been high-over 90%/-and micro-credit has



8
A.     Continued Reform of the Banking Sector
21.    Privatization of SvB. SvB                     Bank Divestiture to Date
remains the largest bank in Albania
and the only one with a network of     RCB was ltquaidated in December 1997. Its banking
branches and agencies covering the     license was revoked, the deposits on its books along with
all its liquid assets were transferred to SvB (merger and
entire  country.   The   bank   was    acquisition), and the remaining assets and liabilities were
offered  for privatization  in July    transferred to the newly created BART. The total cost of
2001. Successful conclusion of this    the operation to the MoF was Lek 4.3 billion to cover the
privatization will mark the State's    net negative value of the transfer operation to SvB. This
exit from any substantial ownership    was covered by issuance of an equal amount of T-Bills.
The total gross value of assets transferred to BART was
in the banking system. Prior to this   Lek 3.6 billion.
offering,  the   bank    underwent
substantial restructuring  under a     NCB sale was concluded in October 2000. The bank was
governance   contract implemented      sold to a consortium of strategic investors: Kentbank of
with   technical  assistance   from    Turkey with 60 percent of share capital, and IFC and
EBRD, with 20 percent each. Prior to its privatization,
foreign consultants. These efforts     the entire lending portfolio of the NCB (Lek 10.4 billion)
included  the reduction   of SvB's     was transferred to BART. Immediately following the
staff from  some 2,500     to about    purchase  of the  bank, the new   owners started
1,600    over   about    2    years,   implementing  a  program  of restructuing  which
modernization of operations in key     encompassed three key elements: (i) reorganization and
introduction of new internal procedures; (ii) renovation of
branches, implementation of IAS,       the head office and branches; and (iii) IT installation and
and, in mid-2001, transfer of the      implementation.  Following Turkey's financial crisis,
problem  portfolio (gross value of     Kentbank was taken over by the Turkish Bank Regulatory
about Lek 7.0 billion) to the Bank     and Supervisory Agency, in mid-2001. This had no
Asset Resolution    Trust (BART).      negative imnpact on NCB or the Albanian banking system,
but it slowed down NCB's plans to start aggressive
During this entire period, there was   banking activities. Kentbank's share in NCB has recently
a moratorium on the bank's lending.    been offered for sale.  IFC and EBRD are closely
Prior to the launch of privatization,  involved with this sale.
the fiscal agent role of the bank, its
dominance in the household deposit market (about 71 percent), and its almost
monopolistic status in the T-bill market were analyzed to ensure that an unsustainable
imbalance in the system would not be created by the privatization.
22.    Only two potentially attractive responses to the announcement for SvB's
privatization were received by the original deadline. In order to attract additional
potential investors, the authorities, following feedback from potential interested strategic
investors, and in consultation with the privatization advisers, the Bank, IFC and the MEF,
delayed the deadline to April 18, 2002. However, in the end, only two reputable
proven an effective tool to reduce poverty and develop the small private sector. In recent years, the
Government is supporting the development of Savings and Credit Associations, which could be the basis for
a sustainable rural credit systemL These efforts have been substantially supported through IDA and other
donor support, including the Microcredit Project approved in FY99.



9
European banks submitted their expressions of interest. Both banks were pre-qualified
and have been invited to submit offers for purchase of at least 60 percent of the bank.
IEFC and EBRD are expected to take up to 40 percent equity participation in the bank.
Finalization of the sale of SvB to a private strategic investor(s), including signing of the
sale 's contract(s), is a condition of the second tranche release.
23.   Strengthening Banking Regulation and Supervision. Since 1997, the BoA
with the assistance from the IMF-MAE and USAID, has made considerable progress in
developing the regulatory framework for the banking sector. The Law on the Bank of
Albania and the Banking Law'° were enacted and supporting regulations were approved
by the Supervisory Council of the BoA. The Albanian banking regulatory framework
reflects many of the intemational and regional standards currently considered as "best
practices" and is generally adequate for the existing level of banking activities. Prudential
requirements generally adhere to Basle Committee recommendations and EU norms."
However, the BoA recognizes that the existence of a relatively comprehensive banking
regulatory framework does not imply that the individual financial institutions and the
overall banking system will be safe and sound. Consequently, it has indicated its
commitment to improving the effectiveness of the banking regulatory and supervisory
framework to help foster efficient banking intermediation as well as to ensure that the
risks of individual banks and the system as a whole are being properly identified,
measured, monitored and managed.
24.   The Law on the Bank of Albania establishes the BoA as an independent legal
entity, headed by a Governor, with powers to direct monetary policy as well as with
independence in licensing, issuing regulations and supervising financial institutions.
However, institutional independence of the BoA needs further refinement. To address
this issue, amendments to the BoA Law have been submitted to Parliament to increase the
independence of the Governor and prohibit members of BoA's Supervisory Council from
being employed directly or indirectly in the banking business. Parliament is expected to
approve these amendments in 2002. Another area which needs to be improved is the
licensing requirements as specified in the Banking Law. Existing legislation should be
amended to include more stringent requirements for bank shareholders and managers, and
a more careful evaluation of the managers' technical ability to oversee day-to-day
banking operations and risk management. Finally, commercial bank corporate governance
needs to be strengthened, including the power of the banks' supervisory boards. To this
end, the Government intends to secure parliamentary adoption of the necessary
amendments to the Banking Law, in the near future.
25.   A money laundering law, prepared with IMF assistance, currently exists. Steps
are also underway, at the MoF level, with assistance from US Treasury, to institute
10 Laws No. 8269, dated 23.12.1997, and No. 8365, dated 02.07.1998, respectively.
II A comprehensive evaluation of bank supervision based on Basle Commrittee 25 Core Principles for an
Effective Banking Supervision was carried out by the IMF-MAE in late-1999.



10
procedures to detect and respond to identified situations, including reviewing the
adequacy of laws, prevention activities, and training needs. BoA, with IDA support, is
also cooperating in the anti-money laundering efforts through attention to regulations and
supervision. To this end, BoA has prepared, with IDA input, draft regulations on "the
Prevention of Money Laundering." The next step for BoA will be the adoption of
regulations and development and implementation of procedures for the identification,
documentation and referral of suspicious activity. Regulations concerning concentration
of lending and credits to shareholders should also be further strengthened to reduce the
risk of insider abuse.
26.     In light of the dominant role of the banking sector in the Albanian financial
market and in view of an expected dynamic private banking environment, with IDA
support,12 the BoA has developed and adopted a long-term strategy and institutional
development program for banking supervision (SDP), identifying the required technical
assistance for its implementation. The IMF is funding a resident advisor to support this
implementation.
27.    Substantial progress has been made in setting up, with USAID        assistance,
formalized supervisory processes that more closely reflect international standards. A
comprehensive CAMELS rating framework has been introduced, a manual for on-site
inspections has been drafted, and steps have been taken to establish an Early Warning
System (EWS) function. BoA has also made efforts to strengthen its supervisory
capability,'3 both with regard to on-site inspection and off-site monitoring and has
established an annual on-site examination cycle. Training programs covering several
important areas of supervision, such as the evaluation of credit risk and procedures, and
the management of liquidity, interest and exchange rate risks, have been introduced. In
spite of this progress, supervisory skills remain weak and staff retention is an issue. This
contributes to the generally weak effectiveness of the supervisory system in performing
its functions.
28.    Given the current state of the banking system and the relatively low level of credit
risk on the banks' balance sheets, this is an opportune time to firmly establish bank
supervision, as well as to introduce and reinforce a strong compliance culture with sound
operating practices. However, efforts would be wasted if BoA is unable to retain
adequate human resources. Improvements in the level of remuneration, introduction of
different personnel levels reflecting different levels of skills, together with the adoptiop of
12 IDA support was provided through an assessment of banking regulatory and supervisory framework and
effectiveness, focused on the following pillars of the supervision system: (i) regulation relating to banking
and its supervision; (ii) the supervisory process; and (iii) the accounting and auditing guidelines and
practices for the banks.
13 The supervisory function of the BoA is currently organized mto two units: (i) licensing and methodology,
and (ii) on-site and off-site. The staff total 26, 14 of which are on-site examiners, 3 are located in the off-
site section, and the other 9 are dedicated to the methodology and licensing unit.



II
a Code of Ethics for all supervisory staff, addressing any potential conflict of interests,
could reduce the turnover as well as improve the effectiveness of the supervisory process.
The SDP, adopted in March 2002, contains a set of monitorable indicators and targets to
assess the achievement of short-term goals in strengthening the supervisory process and
skills and refinement of banking legislation. Satisfactory progress in the implementation
of the SDP is a condition of the second tranche release.
29.   Development of a Deposit Insurance System. As an effective supervisory
system is a prerequisite for the establishment of a deposit insurance scheme, careful
consideration should be given to the timing of its introduction. Although the Albanian
supervisory system still needs to be strengthened, it is appropriate to implement this
scheme at this time, now that the banking system is well capitalized, has very low risk
assets, and SvB privatization process is sufficiently advanced. Over the recent past, BoA
has made considerable progress towards developing a deposit insurance scheme in line
with EU standards, in preparation for its introduction. A new law, prepared with the
assistance of the IMF-MAE, was adopted by Parliament on March 29, 2002. The new
law provides, inter alia, for the insurance scheme funding and administration. To ensure
long-term sustainability of the system, the Government intends to make arrangements to
establish a Deposit Insurance Agency (DIA) and develop a financing plan to ensure its
long-term  solvency.  These efforts will be supported by the IMEF and USAID.
Establishment of the DIA and satisfactory progress in implementing the DIA financing
program is a condition of the second tranche release.
30.   Development of an Efficient Payment System. The current interbank payments
system (clearing and settlement services) is not adequate to meet the needs and support
the development of the private sector. Payments through the system, which is operated
by BoA, are carried out by the physical exchange of documents and payment settlements
are handled manually. This results in high operating costs for the banks, slow processing
of payment instructions, and long execution times for payments. As such, the system is
highly exposed to risks and lacks the confidence of banks and other users. BoA has
developed and adopted a strategy for modernizing the payments system, introducing
automated systems for both large and low value payments. It has made substantial
progress, to date, in implementing this strategy, with IMF-MAE and IDA support.
31.   For the large interbank payments and settlement system  to support the
development of financial markets and the private sector, BoA is establishing an
automated Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) system, which will be in line with
international standards. The main objectives of the RTGS system are to: (i) achieve real-
time settlement of payments between the commercial banks on their books with the BoA
and facilitate the timely settlement of monetary transactions; (ii) increase the efficiency of
daily liquidity management by the banks (with an integrated system for settlement
account information); (iii) minimize the payment system risk; (iv) improve the inter-bank
communication infrastructure; and (v) set up the supporting infrastructure for future
developments in the payments and financial systems. The procurement of the RTGS
system (supported with funding from the IDA Credit for the FSIBTA) is at an advanced



12
stage. The BoA expects the RTGS system to be in place and operating, with connection
to the system of not less than 5 banks, within one year. As a subsequent phase, the
Government Securities Book-entry System and the Monetary Operations Department will
also be linked with the RTGS system. BoA has evaluated bids for the RTGS system and
further actions are under consideration.
32.   In conjunction with the development of the RTGS system, the BoA is also in the
process of implementing an integrated accounting/management system (with funding
from the FSIBTA), which will interface with the RTGS system. As a next phase, it has
already started working on the bulk clearing and settlement system for retail (low value)
payments. It plans for this system to come on-stream shortly after the RTGS system.
BoA intends to establish of the necessary legislative framework for the operations of the
small-value clearing and settlement system before this system comes on-stream
33.   Enhancing Banking Competition. The Government is committed to improving
the environment in Albania to encourage banking competition. Divestiture of the State
from banks is a cornerstone of this objective. The Government is also committed
creating a level playing field for private banks to conduct their business. This includes
supporting infrastructure improvements (such as a modern payments system, deposit
insurance scheme, credit information facility) as well as outsourcing its own banking
needs, based on transparent competitive procedures. This will be important, given that in
the foreseeable future the Government will remain the largest client of the system. To
this end, the Government has taken steps to improve the auctioning procedures to allow
the general public to more easily purchase Treasury Bills. In addition, it has auctioned
out its fiscal functions in Elbasan and Durres (major cities) to private banks and is
holding similar auctions in other municipalities. Furthermore, the Government has
encouraged state-owned enterprises to seek banking with private banks, on a competitive
basis. In the medium to long-term, the above actions are expected to contribute to a
reduction in SvB's dominant position in the sector.
B.    Enhancement of the Bankruptcy and Debt Resolution Framework.
34.   Bankruptcy Framework and Collateral Enforcement.       The bankruptcy
framework (comprising a set of bankruptcy rules and procedures as well as the
infrastructure of judges, specialized professionals, and informnation systems) is a major
vehicle for enterprise restructuring in mature market economies as well as an essential
building block towards good governance. Improving this framework, together with other
legislation to protect creditors' rights, is another fundamental element of Government's
reform program. Although an Albanian insolvency law is in force, the bankruptcy system
as a whole remains largely inoperative. The existing law is complex and cumbersome and
the capacity of the court system and qualifications of staff are inadequate. As a result,
there is a general mistrust in using the system and not a single case has been processed
under the existing bankruptcy legislation.



13
35.   The Government is in the process of reforming the bankruptcy framework to
address these shortcomings. This includes overhauling the existing legislation, as well as
implementing a capacity building program in order to make the system effective. The
MoF has prepared a new insolvency law with support from GtZ in consultation with
multilateral donors, including IDA and the IMF. This law, which was adopted by
Parliament in May 2002, is substantially in harmony with relevant EU legislation and in
line with intemational best practices as reflected in the World Bank's Principles and
Guidelinesfor Insolvency and Creditor Rights Systems. It is also in conformity with the
legal system in Albania. The law reflects the Govermment's policy of increasing financial
intermediation, by providing adequate and much needed protection for secured creditors.
36.   A major consideration in the preparation of this legislation was to establish a
strong protective mechanism for possible rehabilitation of insolvent but viable business
organizations without undermining the efficient and consistent enforcement of creditors'
rights against collateral by placing significant restrictions on their actions. These
principles are designed to promote maximum certainty in risk management and resolution
practices. In the context of liquidation, administrators should be entitled to dispose of
collateral in a cormmercially reasonable manner, if the property is not essential to the sale
of a business as a going concern. In reorganization proceedings, the process should favor
rehabilitation of the enterprise swiftly and with minimum possible impact on secured
creditors' rights, except to the extent necessary to achieve the reorganization. Where
collateral is unnecessary to the reorganization, a creditor should have the ability to request
that the collateral be relinquished.
37.   As part of the efforts to create a legal framework which would foster financial
intermediation, the Law on Securing Charges became effective in January 2001, and the
Registry of Securing Charges has been operating satisfactorily since early 2001, with over
2,000 registrations. Although the initial operations of the Registry were largely donor-
funded, the Govermment has now in place arrangements to ensure the operational and
financial viability, and long-term sustainability, of this system. After consideration of
various alternatives, this has been done by incorporating the Registry into the civil
service, making it a department of the MoF. Although the Registry needs budgetary
support for its operations in the short-run, it is expected to eventually become self-
financing.
38.   In addition to improving legislation, the Government's program will focus on
strengthening implementation of the bankruptcy and collateral enforcement framework.
As part of the overall program and to develop a working system, which in the long-run
will help financial interrnediation and turn the bankruptcy system into an efficient vehicle-
for enterprise restructuring and liquidation, a team of legal experts from the MoJ, the
MoF and private sector practitioners has formulated an Institutional Development
Program (IDP) for Insolvency and Secured Financing Enforcement. The major
components of the program comprise: (i) improvement of the judicial infrastructure,
including introducing licensing requirements for professional insolvency practitioners;
(ii) deepening the capacity for tie court application of detailed rules of bankruptcy and



14
secured financing procedures; and (iii) elaboration and provision of an education and
public awareness campaign of the bankruptcy and secured financing system. The
program includes monitorable indicators to assess its successful implementation. The
IDP has been approved jointly by the Ministers of Finance and Justice. Satisfactory
implementation of the program is a condition for the second tranche release.
39.   BART Debt Workout. An additional element of the Govemment's banking
sector reform program is the resolution of the bad loan portfolios of the state-owned
banks. BART was created in 1998 for the purpose of working out the bad debt, initially
of RCB. BART is mandated to renegotiate its claims with debtors and, in cases where it
failed, to enforce the claims through the courts. According to its management reports,
BART has renegotiated loans for about Lek 820 million of which about Lek 395 has been
fully repaid and the balance are current in their payments. In addition, BART is pursuing
claims of about Lek 2.5 billion through litigation and has received decisions on about Lek
250 million to date.
40.   The authorities have recently begun to question these results and believe that
BART has not functioned effectively as an aggressive liquidator of these assets. This has
in part been driven by a lack of clarity in BART's mandate. Its operation has also been
significantly hampered by the lack of an effective legal framework for the enforcement of
creditor rights. An additional concem is that BART lacks the controls and govemance
structures required to support activities. These problems have become more of a concem
with the transfer of the problem portfolios of the NCB and SvB, which have increased the
value of BART's assets about fivefold. The Government contracted an extended audit of
BART14 to obtain a better assessment of its performance. The audit confirmed that
BART management's reporting of results were overstated and identified serious
institutional weaknesses.
41.   BART's failure to work out claims and enforce its rights as a creditor has a
negative impact on the banking system by preventing otherwise creditworthy borrowers
from establishing relationships with privately owned banks and, by failing to enforce its
creditor rights, encourages a lack of creditor discipline. To improve the capacity of
BART to implement its expanded mandate, the authorities prepared (with PHRD-funded
assistance) a new BART law. The new law, which was adopted by Parliament in May
2002,15 will fundamentally transform BART as an institution and give it a clear mandate
to achieve the objective of resolving its portfolio (by transparent sales or transfer to
private sector management) by the end of 2005. The governance of BART will
simultaneously be restructured by significantly strengthening the oversight role of the
14 This extended audit (including an audit of operations) of 2000 as well as up to September 2001 was
financed from the IDA Credit for the FSIBTA.
5Law on ATK, Law No. 8894 of May 5, 2002.



15
Supervisory Board, by establishing a Management Board with clear responsibility and
accountability, and by introducing an Investment Board to provide independent advice
and review regarding BART's operations and work out activities.
42.   The authorities have also drafted (with PHRD-funded assistance) terms of
reference for a strategic and business plan to be prepared by BART management. The
plan, which is expected to be adopted by end-September 2002, will focus BART on the
following key objectives: (a) to transfer ownership of BART's assets to the private sector,
to the extent possible; (b) to maximize the use of private sector skills in the management
of BART's assets; (c) to maximize the present value of cash recoveries for the benefit of
the State; (d) to ensure that all BART's activities are carried out in a way which meets
intemational standards for transparency and accountability; and (e) to reinforce the rule of
law and strengthen the framework for creditor rights by ensuring that debtors honor their
obligations.
43.   The plan, which will establish time-bound targets, will be closely monitored by
the Supervisory Board. At a minimum, BART will resolve not less than 15 percent by
value and 10 percent by number of its assets by end-June 2003; no less than 50 percent by
value and 50 percent by number of its assets by mid-2004; and, not less than 90 percent
by value and 75 percent by number of its assets by mid-2005. Any assets remaining on
BART's books at end-2005 will be transformed into State claims and transferred to the
MoF for future resolution. BART will cease to exist as an institution at the same time.
Satisfactory implementation of the Strategic and Business Plan, including resolution of at
least 15 percent of BAR T's portfolio in value is a condition of the second tranche release.
44.   Improvement of Financial Reporting. The current Law on Accounting, which
was published in 1993, describes the methods by which accounting records are to be
maintained and provides an outline of the contents of the annual financial statements.
Recognition and valuation principles for assets and liabilities are described only in broad
terms; the detailed rules are contained in two accounting manuals, one for banks and one
for all other commercial enterprises. The accounting manuals prescribe the compulsory
chart of accounts to be used by banks and other enterprises and provide step-by-step
instructions for posting transactions to the relevant accounts.
45.   The Trade Company Law of 1992 mandates the annual audit of the financial
statements of all companies which exceed certain income and asset size criteria. An
amendment to the Law in 1995 brought about the creation of an institute of auditors
(IEKA). IEKA has received substantial technical assistance since its inception including
assistance in the development of an auditing manual compliant with International
Standards on Auditing (ISA). IEKA is currently preparing a full translation of the ISA
which, subject to the approval of the membership, will be adopted as the standards of the
institute. To ensure enforcement of the ISA, the Trade Company Law should be amended
to stipulate that all statutory audits be performed in accordance with ISA.  The
Government intends to mandate the use of International Standards on Auditing.



16
46.   In 1998, the BoA issued a new chart of accounts and accounting manual,
developed with financial and technical support from the EU Phare. The new chart of
accounts and the accompanying instructions are substantially in conformity with IAS. All
banks have now implemented the new uniform chart of accounts. The BoA mandates the
preparation of IAS financial statements for all banks, which causes some contradictions
with the current Accounting Law. To that end, a new Accounting Law should be
introduced in order to provide for full application of Intemational Standards in the area of
bank accounting; this would remove the inconsistency and effectively mandate the BoA
to maintain its reporting requirements in line with developments in IAS. In addition, the
Banking Law and other relevant legislation should be reviewed in order to identify
changes needed and accordingly amended. This, together with the adoption of ISA,
would enhance the transparency and quality of regulatory reporting from banks and
provide the supervisory function with a more reliable independent assessment of banks'
financial conditions. This is particularly important as the supervisory function is still in
the embryonic stage of development. The MoF has completed drafting a new Accounting
Law and plans to submit it to Parliament (together with satisfactory amendments to other
relevant legislation) with is view to its adoption by end-2002.
47.   There is currently no specific guidance in any of the accounting legislation which
might assist the nascent insurance market; insurance companies are required to prepare
financial statements in the same format as general trading companies. The overwhelming
majority of current business is auto insurance but, as the life products market begins to
develop, it will be necessary for the public to be able to obtain some comfort that their
long-term savings are secure and that they will be able to draw on life assurance policies
when they mature; again some comfort can be gained by ensuring that insurance
companies make adequate financial disclosures. The Albanian Insurance Supervision
Commission (IASC) is currently working on a standard specifically for insurance
companies and this would therefore be an opportune time for the new Accounting Law to
mandate the publication of IAS financial statements by insurance companies. Full
implementation of International Accounting Standards for insurance companies and any
other entities which have a public trust obligation is expected prior to the second tranche
release.
48.   The corporate sector in Albania comprises predominantly small and micro
enterprises; less than 0.3 percent of enterprises have a reported turnover exceeding
US$1.4 million. The majority of firms are owner managed and a large volume of
transactions are settled in cash, increasing the risk that financial performance will be
misstated (typically profits are understated to avoid taxation). In such an environment,
financial institutions will lend only to connected companies (about which they have
inside information) or against collateral. However, as the informal economy shrinks and
the corporate sector develops, the banks will need to migrate from pure collateral-based
lending to cash-flow based lending, which will require companies to produce accurate
and reliable financial information. The Albanian General Accounting Standards (the Law
on Accounting plus the accounting manual for non-bank companies) are based on the
French model and, although they are not fully LAS compliant, form a reasonable



17
accounting framework for the majority of the existing corporate sector. However, as
companies increase in size or begin to form group structures, the current framework may
prove inadequate. Therefore the new Law on Accounting should define size criteria for
companies, above which they are required to produce full IAS financial statements.
Albania currently has no operating securities market and, with its history of collapsed
pyramid schemes, it will be essential for any securities market which might develop to be
effectively regulated so as to quickly build the trust of the investing public. One aspect of
securities market regulation is the enforcement of adequate financial disclosure on those
companies wishing to list their securities.  Full implementation of International
Accounting Standards for corporations which exceed a minimum size criteria and for
corporations which issue their securities to the public and mandatory use of an
appropriate chart of accounts by such corporations are expected by second tranche of the
credit.
49.    The Government is aware that amending only accounting and auditing legislation
is not sufficient to introduce standards for transparency and good governance for
corporations. Revision of the commercial code, securities legislation, and other
appropriate legislation is needed in order to establish penalties for falsification of
financial information and reporting, appropriate incentives and responsibility of corporate
owners, managers and supervisory boards. Completion of the review of the relevant
legislation is expected by second tranche of the credit.
C. Reform of the Non-Bank Financial Sector
50.    INSIG   Privatization.  INSIG was created on 31 July, 1991, as Albania's
monopoly insurer. In March 1996, INSIG became a wholly state-owned joint stock
company. It has grown strongly during the past few years'6 and has proved to be a
conservative investor, as the vast majority of the assets are held in cash or cash
equivalents. INSIG's product range consists of three broad categories: motor vehicle
insurance; property insurance; and, life, accident and health insurance. Currently three
other (private) insurance companies operate in Albania, but INSIG remains the dominant
force in non-life insurance (with a market share of around 60 percent at end 2001), and is
the only licensed life insurance company.
51.   In February 2000, the Government adopted a decision to prepare INSIG for
privatization. Although initially the Government indicated an ambitious deadline of end-
2001 for this undertaking and much preparatory work has been done, this deadline was
clearly unattainable and a more realistic target would be early 2003. INSIG, with the
16 Net premiums have grown by 60 percent and profits have increased by 132 percent, since 1996. With
total shareholders' equity of 2.4 billion Lek, INSIG is well capitalized. The rajor factors for this growth
record have been: taking advantage of opportunities such as the regional expansion into Kosovo; taking
advantage of economies of scale, thereby reducing costs; and aggressive restructuring: during the year 2000,
INSIG reduced its workforce by 280 staff, or 41 percent, while at the same time continuing to expand its
business.



18
assistance of a short-term advisor (funded from the FSIBTA Credit), has prepared two
key policy documents: "fNSIG Draft Strategic Plan 2001-2003" and "INSIG Proposed
Framework for Privatization". The privatization framework document addresses a
number of topics including pre-privatization steps that could be taken to make INSIG
more attractive to potential investors, and recommendations for changes to the legal
framework in order to increase the appeal of investing in the financial services industry in
Albania.
52.   The privatization framework document provided the Government with three
options for sale of INSIG: (i) a traditional sales process, seeking bids in the same way as
that undertaken for the Savings Bank; (ii) a two-step process, commencing with a "pre-
privatization sale", to be followed by a complete divestiture in the medium-term; and (iii)
fast-track privatization. After considering the various options, the Government decided
to privatize INSIG through a three-phase process, which is generally consistent with the
two-step approach. This process would include: (i) a pre-privatization sale of up to 40
percent to international financial institutions (EFC and EBRD) by negotiations; and (ii)
the subsequent privatization which would have two phases: 12 months after this sale, to
offer by international tender no less than an additional 40 percent of the shares to strategic
investor(s); and, within 5 years of the pre-privatization, to sell the remaining government
shares to private Albanian banks and credit institutions through a public offering. This
strategy is incorporated in the INSIG Privatization Law which was adopted by Parliament
in May 2002. The Government is well advanced in its discussions with the IFC and
EBRD for the pre-privatization equity sale. Under this arrangement, they would then
help with the continued pre-privatization restructuring and the eventual sale of the
company to strategic investors. The Government has indicated its intention to retain
professional advice for the implementation of this strategy to help ensure the transparency
and integrity of the process. Privatization efforts are being supported by IFC and by
technical assistance funded from the IDA Credit for the FS1BTA.
53.   Insurance Regulation and Supervision. Privatization of the insurance sector in
turn requires development of an adequate regulatory and supervisory framework designed
to stimulate healthy competition in the market. The MoF and the Albanian Insurance
Supervision Conmmission (AISC) have developed, with assistance from IFC,
recommendations for improvements in the insurance legislation and in the operations of
the AISC. To this end, they have prepared a package of legislation including: (i) draft
amendments to the Insurance Law; and (ii) draft regulations on basic financial and
statistical reports required by AISC from insurance companies operating in Albania. The
draft amendments to the Insurance Law are expected to be submitted to Parliament later
this year, with a view to their early adoption. Additionally, the authorities plan to prepare
amendments to the 1992 TPL law in their efforts to move toward international standards.
These amendments are expected to be adopted by Parliament by early-2003. As an
immediate step to reduce the risk in the insurance market, the MoF has approved
regulations setting premium and reserve requirements for third party liability insurance.
Enactment of satisfactory insurance legislation is a condition for the second tranche
release.



19
54.   The Government is also fully committed to migrating the AISC toward an
independent status and by end-2002 will take steps in this regard by providing AISC with
budgetary and operational independence in substantial compliance with the core
principles of the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS). To help the
long-term development of AISC, the MoF and the management of AISC are currently
preparing an institutional strengthening plan which they intend implement through
securing technical assistance from bilateral and multilateral donors. Establishment of an
insurance regulatory agency with budgetary and operational independence acceptable to
IDA is a condition for the second tranche release of the credit.
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.    Rationale for IDA Involvement
55.   The IDA assistance strategy (Country Assistance Strategy-CAS-May 2002)
will be presented to the Board concurrently with this operation. The CAS is designed to
support Albania in implementing the GPRS. The GPRS confirms the validity of the
broad objectives of the 1998 CAS and the 2000 CAS Progress Report. Therefore, the
objectives of the FY03-05 CAS are largely the same as those of the previous CAS,
namely: (i) improving governance and strengthening institutions (building efficient and
inclusive public institutions; increasing transparency and accountability at all levels;
strengthening monitoring and evaluation; and using community-based approaches that
build institutions from the bottom up); (ii) promoting sustainable private sector growth
(maintaining macroeconomic stability in conjunction with the RAF program; continuing
financial sector reform and enterprise privatization; improving the environment for
private investment; sustaining agricultural growth and fostering broad-based rural growth;
improving infrastructure and creating institutional environments conducive to
infrastructure sustainability, especially through community or private sector participation;
and promoting environmental sustainability); and (iii) fostering human development
(education, health and social protection).
56.   Poverty reduction is the overarching objective of the Bank's assistance strategy. 7
The Bank will continue the efforts started in 1998 to deepen the cross-sectoral focus on
poverty alleviation-consistent with the GPRS. The GPRS, together with the Bank-IMU
Joint Staff Assessment, and the CAS, all emphasize the importance of continued
implementation of the structural reforms for the achievement of the Government's long-
term growth and poverty reduction strategy. The GPRS outlines the following structural
reforms as most important in deepening the transition process: "(a) completion of the
17The need to increase efforts to reduce poverty was also the overarching objective of the strategy
presented in the CAS Progress Report and Interim PRSP (presented to the Board in March and June 2000,
respectively).



20
privatization process of industrial enterprises, public services, and financial institutions,
which are still under State ownership; (b) consolidation of reforms in the banking system
and establishment of the capital market; (c) deepening of market institutionalization,
including property right consolidation, promotion of competition, consumer protection;
(d) deepening of reformation and modernization of State institutions according to the
standards of a democratic society and a market-oriented economy."
57.   The proposed operation plays a prominent role in the Bank's assistance strategy
and in achieving the objectives of the GPRS, as presented in the CAS. The reform
program supported under the FSAC will help the design and implementation of the
Govemment's final phase of divestiture from the financial sector. With this exit, the
Government's role will shift from that of an owner to that of a regulator. The proposed
operation supports the Government's effort in this transition by focusing on improving
the legal and institutional framework necessary for functioning of a market-based
financial sector, which is critical for sustaining the long-term impact of the structural
reforms and growth.
58.    Since late-1997, the Bank, through its policy dialogue, has been instrumental in
helping the Governnent formulate its banking sector reform strategy. Funding for
preparation and implementation has been provided through two IDA credits (the RPTA
and the FSIBTA). The RPTA (approved in FY98) supported the initial phase of banking
sector reform, focusing on divestiture of RCB and NCB. This project is substantially
completed. The FSIBTA (approved FY00) provides follow up assistance focusing on
SvB and the non-bank financial sector, particularly the insurance sector.  These
operations, together with the Judicial and Legal Reform Project (approved FY00), will
help ensure that resources are available to provide the technical assistance needed to
implement the prograrn supported by the FSAC. Donor funding from a PHRD grant and
from IFC has also been used to support preparation of this program.
59.   EFC is making a significant contribution to the Govemrnent's financial sector
privatization efforts. They have invested, together with the EBRD, in NCB. They are
also planning to make an equity investment in SvB and are providing substantial support
in the marketing of the bank. Finally, IFC is expected to make a pre-privatization
investment in INSIG and help in its future privatization.
B.    Coordination with the IMF and other Donors
60.   IDA and the AIF have been closely coordinating their efforts in support of
Albania's financial sector reforms. In fact, the previous Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility (PRGF) program,t8 which ended in July 2001, provided a policy umbrella for the
18 The IMF is supporting the Government's comrnitmnent to stability and structural reformns, formulated as
part of the GPRS, through the PRGF, which is expected to be renewed in June 2002 for 3 years.



21
structural measures which were designed with the assistance of IDA. Implementation
was supported by the two above-mentioned IDA credits. Other donors, including
USAID, US Treasury, the Government of Japan (through the PHRD grant for the FSAC)
and GtZ, have provided and continue to provide technical and financial support to the
preparation and implementation of financial sector and bankruptcy reforms. The Bank
has coordinated its efforts with all donors both in Washington and in Tirana.
C.    Credit Amount and Borrower
61.   The proposed IDA credit, in the amount of SDR 12 million (US$15 million
equivalent), will be made to Albania. The proposed credit would be based on standard
IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years including 10 years of grace and an expected
disbursement of 1-2 years. The credit would be disbursed in two equal tranches of SDR 6
million (US$7.5 million equivalent).
D.    Credit Design
62.   The principle objective of the proposed credit is to provide timely and responsive
support to Albania's efforts to implement effective reform of its banking and insurance
sectors as well as its bankruptcy framework. The credit would provide fast-disbursing
funds for balance of payments support. The Government, in cooperation with the Bank
and the IMF (through a PRGF to be presented to the IMEF Board in June 2002), would aim
at maintaining a stable macroeconomic framework essential for the successful
implementation of the structural reforms.
63.   The main elements of the reform program are:
* Continued Reform of the Banking Sector focusing on the conclusion of efforts
towards the privatization of SvB and improvement of the institutional, regulatory,
and supervisory framework for banking;
* Enhancement of the Bankruptcy and Debt Resolution Framework focusing on the
adoption of the new insolvency legislation and capacity building for and
implementation of the insolvency and secured financing framework, and debt
workout activities of BART; and
* Reform of the Non-Bank Financial Sector focusing on further development of the
regulatory and supervisory framework for the insurance sector and the
privatization of INSIG.
64.   The focus of the design of the credit is on capacity building, implementation of
which is medium to long-term in nature. Hence, although the credit is expected to fully
disburse in a period of 1-2 years, the long-term nature of the reforms have been
considered in the design of the capacity building plans and are expected to be supported
through IDA and other donor financing.



22
E.    Board Conditions, Tranche Triggers and Supervision
65.   Conditions for Board presentation have been met:
 Short-listing of strategic investors for the sale of SvB;
* Adoption of an agreed SDP by BoA;
 Approval of an agreed IDP for bankruptcy and secured financing;
* Adoption of a new satisfactory insolvency law;
* Adoption of a new BART law;
 Adoption of a privatization law for INSIG; and
* Completion of draft new legislation for the insurance sector.
66.   Conditions for the second tranche release include:
* Finalization of SvB's sale by signing a contract for the sale of not less than 50
percent plus one of SvB's shares;
*  Establishment of a Deposit Insurance Agency (DIA) and satisfactory progress in
implementing its financing program;
* Satisfactory implementation by BoA of the SDP;
 Satisfactory progress in implementation of the IDP for bankruptcy and secured
financing enforcement;
- Satisfactory implementation of the Strategic and Business Plan for BART,
including resolution of 15 percent of its portfolio value;
* Enactment of satisfactory insurance legislation; and
* Establishment of an insurance regulatory agency with budgetary and operational
independence.
67.   The MoF and BoA will be responsible for the supervision and implementation of
the program. IDA will monitor the implementation of the program through periodic
reviews. Monitorable indicators have been agreed with the authorities to be able to
objectively assess the progress in the implementation of the reforms. Monitorable
indicators are provided in the attached matrix, for both tranche release conditions and for
the overall implementation of the Government's program for financial sector reform.
E. Implementation
68.   The proposed FSAC will be implemented in accordance with standard IDA
procedures for adjustment credits. The financial sector program will be implemented by
the MoF and the BoA. Upon notification by IDA of credit effectiveness, the proceeds of
the credit will be deposited by IDA into the designated Deposit Account at the request of
the Borrower. In accordance with the Operational Directive on the Simplification of
Disbursement Rules under Structural Adjustment and Adjustment Credits (February 8,
1996), disbursement will not be linked to specific purchases. Therefore, there will be no
procurement requirements.



23
F. Financial Arrangements
69.   The MoF will have in place an adequate accounting and financial management
reporting system for Deposit Account. The MoF will maintain records of all transactions
under the credit in accordance with sound accounting practices. The Government will
submit to IDA a monthly receipts of all payment account showing the transactions on the
Deposit Account, starting with the receipt of IDA funds and ending when the balance on
the Deposit Account has been reduced to nil. The Borrower shall: (a) have the Deposit
Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (b) fumish to IDA as soon as available but in
any case no later than four months after the date of IDA's request for such audit, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such details
as IDA shall have reasonably required; and (c) furnish to IDA such other information
concerning the Deposit Account and the audit thereof as IDA shall have reasonably
requested.
70.   The audit will be carried out at semi-annual intervals as agreed with IDA,
calculated from the date of first tranche release, with suitable adjustments of timing
depending on the date of subsequent tranche release and the funds left in the Deposit
Account at any point in time. The terms of reference for the audit will be agreed between
IDA and the Borrower. Audits would end once all funds have been transferred from the
Deposit Account. In addition to the above, IDA may request that its own staff (or a
specialist contractor working on its behalf) carry out special reviews of the Deposit
Account. If, after deposit into the Deposit Account, the proceeds of the credit are used
for ineligible purposes, IDA will require the Borrower to either: (i) return that amount to
the account for use for eligible purposes, or (ii) refund the amount directly to IDA.
G. Environmental Impact
71.   In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental
Assessment (OD 4.01), the proposed operation has been placed in category "C" and does
not require an environmental assessment.
H. Benefits and Risks
72.   The reform actions sought under the proposed credit will help consolidate and
take the reforms in the financial sector beyond achievements to date to foster better
engagement of the financial sector in the growth and development of the Albanian
economy. Privatization of SvB to a fit and proper international bank will end the
engagement of the Albanian State in banking sector. This, together with further
strengthening of the banking regulation and supervision capacities of the BoA, will in the
medium-term help create a well regulated competitive banking environment. With
improvements in the legal framework for bankruptcy and secured financing and
enforcement of creditors' rights, it is hoped that, in the medium to long-term, the banks



24
will become active participants in financing the enterprise sector and contribute to the
long-term sustainable economic development of Albania. Implementation of the non-
bank financial sector reforms, particularly the privatization of INSIG, development of the
regulatory and supervisory framework for the insurance sector and improvements in the
financial reporting, will, in the short-term, help in the provision of better services to the
population and, in the long-run, the development of a more mature financial market in
Albania (see Table 5 for Key Outcomes).
Table 5: KEY OUTCOMES
NEAR-TERM                        MEDIUM- TO LONG-TERM
Banking Sector  * Privatization of the     * Increase of public trust in the banking sector through
Reform             Savings Bank.             increased levels of savings and utilization of banking
services by the public.
* Outsourcing of budgetary
and fiscal functions to
andvatecbanks through   * Increased competition in the banking sector leading to
private bans thror         increased and better quality services to clients and
open auctions in major     population as a whole.
towns.
* Reduction in SvB's share in the market.
* Ensuring prudent market-based banking practices,
through improved governance, regulation, and
supervision.
* Reduction in transaction costs and payment system risks.
* Formation of a core of competent bank supervisors.
Enhancement     * Adoption of the new      * Improvement of lending environrment and trust in the
of the            legislation for the         bankruptcy system
Bankruptcy         bankruptcy framework.
and Debt                                   * Improvement in transparency of bankruptcy enforcement
Resolution      * Training and licensing of   mechanism.
Framework          pilot group of bankruptcy
professionals in
accfessiordan  wi     a    Increase in bank lending.
accordance with criteria
based on the new
bankruptcy frmework.     * Improverpent of credit discipline.
Reform of the   * Adoption of the new      * Increase in competition in the insurance sector.
Non-bank           legislation for the
Financial         insurance sector.        * Creation of sound and enabling regulatory environment
Sector                                        for the development of the insurance sector.
* Privatization of INSIG.
* Strengthening of the
insurance sector
supervision and bringing
it closer to EU standards.



25
73.   The risks to the proposed FSAC could be grouped into political, macroeconomic,
and absorptive capacity risks.
*  Political Risk. Although Albania's political stability and domestic security have
improved since 1997, both major political parties have serious intemal divisions.
Regionally, the Stability Pact and the prospect of closer ties with European
structures are major incentives for reform and political consolidation and will help
mitigate this risk, although the 2001 outbreak of ethnic conflict in Macedonia
underscores the region's continued instability. Albania remains vulnerable to
domestic or regional instability that could derail the efforts to achieve the FSAC
objectives. This could be both in terms of delays due to political infighting, such
as the recent confrontation between the prime minister and the head of the
Socialist Party which led to a slow down in the implementation of the legislative
agenda of Parliament, and the use of key elements of the reform for populist
politics, such as the privatization of the Savings Bank and that of INSIG. It must
be noted, however, that to date, despite major debates in the papers on the future
of SvB, no one has yet seriously questioned the merits of privatization. To help
further mitigate this risk, the FSAC has been designed to ensure that key (and
irreversible) steps are taken prior to Board presentation.
* Macroeconomic Risk. The implementation of reforms could be undermined by
risks of intemal and extemal macroeconomic imbalances. The Govermment has
agreed with the IMF on the implementation of a stabilization program based on
continued cautious fiscal and monetary policies as well as efforts to increase
exports and contain the current account deficit. In addition, Albania's objective to
sign an Associate Membership with the European Union implies a commitment
with the European Commission to implement a stable medium-term
macroeconomic program. Nevertheless, Albania faces a major threat to its
macroeconomic program due to the continued energy crisis. Reliable electricity is
essential for private sector development and sustainable growth. Continued
reliance on Government-subsidized energy imports could undermine further fiscal
consolidation and the government's ability to fully finance its economic priority
actions. Lack of availability of reliable electricity could lead to reduced interest
by potential foreign strategic investors in Albania, as well as to the departure of
businesses already present in the country, as well as contribute to social unrest and
political instability. Steps, however, are being taken with assistance from IDA
and other donors to remedy the situation. These include investments in non-hydro
power generation capacities and better management of electricity distribution.
Another macroeconomic factor that could impact the privatization of SvB and
INSIG is the current weak intemational financial markets. In the case of SvB, this
is minimal as the MoF has already identified and invited potential (serious)
strategic investors to bid on SvB. In the case of INSIG, IFC is advanced in its
consideration of a pre-privatization investment, which will insulate the process
from the financial markets situation in the short-term.



26
Absorptive Capacity Risk. Implementation of the reforms could be substantially
undermined by the weak institutional capacity in the country. The risk that this
will impact the implementation of the objectives of the FSAC is mitigated by a
number of technical assistance initiatives that are well under way. Technical
assistance has been provided through different IDA-financed projects (FSIBTA,
Judicial and Public Administration Reform projects) and other donors' programs.
These measures would support the implementation of the reforms sought under
the proposed operation and help build sustainable capacities in the country,
particularly in areas of banking supervision, bankruptcy/secured transactions
framework and insurance regulation and supervision. These efforts are being
pursued in closed coordination with other bilateral and multilateral donors.
V. RECOMMENDATION
74.   I am satisfied that the proposed credit will comply with the Articles of Agreement
of the Intemational Development Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By: Shengman Zhang
Washington D.C.
May 23, 2002



27
ANNEX 1
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                              REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE                               BANK OF ALBANIA
No;   Pr   ot                                      Tirana;''_ 2002
Letter of Development Policy
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Dear Mr. President:
I .   We are writing this letter on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Albania
and the Bank of Albania (BoA). Since early 1990's, Albania has made significant
progress towards the institutional and structural reforms required for the establishment of
a functioning market economy and macroeconomic stability has now been achieved. This
progress has been made despite the serious problems experienced due to the near-collapse
of civil society and the state as a result of the breakdown of the pyramid schemes in 1997
and, in 1999, the outbreak of the Kosovo crisis which placed heavy fiscal strains on the
economy due to the costs of supporting refugees.
2.    Since the collapse of the pyramid schemes in mid-1997 significant progress has
been made in the implementation of measures to reform the financial sector. In 1997 a
new banking law was adopted and a bank privatization strategy was developed. Under the
bank privatization strategy, the Rural Commercial Bank (RCB) was closed and its assets
transferred to the Bank Assets Resolution Trust (BARTIATK) which was created to
centrally work out the problem loan portfolios of the state-owned banks. This was
followed by the operational restructuring of the National Commercial Bank (NCB) and,
in 2000, its sale to foreign and multilateral strategic investors. The privatization process
for the Savings Bank (SvB) is now well advanced, and we expect to finalize the sale by
the end of 2002. The privatization process for the Albanian Insurance Company (INSIG)
is now starting. The privatization of INSIG, which should be completed in 2003, will
mark the final exit of the State from any major ownership role in the financial sector.
3.    Since the renewal of our Governent's mandate, in the elections held in June
2001, we have reviewed the progress made in the financial sector as well as the
framework for bankruptcy and debt resolution. From our review of the financial sector
we have identified a number of areas where further progress needs to be made to
strengthen supervision and regulation of the banking system, deepen financial markets,
and complete the privatization process for SvB and INSIG. The privatization of the



28
banking system now underway has reinforced the need for an effective system of bank
regulation and supervision. In this regard, we have identified a number of areas for
improvement, particularly with respect to strengthening the supervision function and the
need to bring accounting standards and practices into line with international norms. We
must address major weaknesses which continue to exist in the govemance of banks and in
the accountability of bank management and supervisory boards. To encourage
mobilization of deposits, and thus provide much-needed resources, from which credit can
be prudently provided to the real sector, Parliament has adopted legislation to establish a
deposit insurance scheme. We develop an associated financing plan to ensure its long-
term solvency. In the insurance sector, in addition to moving forward with the
privatization of INSIG, we will prepare an appropriate legal and institutional framework
to regulate the industry and provide it with adequate supervision.
4.    Although the mechanism for resolution of the bad assets of the state-owned banks
was created in 1998, to date, little progress has been made by BARTIATK in resolving
the portfolios of these assets. Successful resolution of these claims is important not only
to provide some recovery of the costs of bank restructuring but also to instill creditor
discipline, thereby creating a better environment for bank lending. Our review of the
framework for bankruptcy and debt resolution, along with a detailed review of
BART/ATK's operations, has helped to identify those weaknesses in the framework for
the enforcement of creditor rights which pose obstacles not only to the resolution of
BART/ATK's assets but also to the availability of all types of credit. Accordingly, our
program to reform the framework for bankruptcy and debt enforcement incorporates both
overall improvements to the legal and institutional framework, centered on improvements
to the bankruptcy and collateral regimes, and specific measures designed to give
BART/ATK the mandate and ability to clear up the large backlog of non-performing
claims for which it is responsible.
5.    We are aware that, while the completion of the privatization of the financial sector
will provide support for the long-term growth of output and employment, the full benefits
of reform will not occur until an adequate regulatory and supervisory framework for the
financial sector is in place and significant progress has been made in developing a
framework for protection of creditors' rights. Accordingly, we intend to push forward
with an ambitious program of further reforms with the intent of completing the required
measures within two years.
6.    The Government of Albania!s overall reform program has been formulated as part
of the Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS) which was agreed with IDA in
early 2002. The GPRS groups the "3-year growth strategy" into three broad categories:
transition towards a market economy; long-term sustainable development policies; and
European integration. As part of the transition towards a nmarket economy, the most
important objectives include: (i) completion of the privatization process of industrial
enterprises, public services, and financial institutions; (ii) consolidation of reforms in the
banking system and establishment of a capital market; (iii) deepening of market
institutionalization, including property rights consolidation, promotion of competition,
and consumer protection; and (iv) deepening reform and modernization of State



29
institutions according to the standards of a democratic society and a market-oriented
economy. In regard to the financial sector, the GPRS reflects a continuation of the
strategy which our Government adopted and has been implementing since 1998. To
support these reforms we request the assistance of the Intemational Development
Association through a Financial Sector Adjustment Credit.
Macroeconomic Framework
7.    We will continue to strive for the macroeconomic stability required for economic
growth through the PRGF program now agreed with the Intemational Monetary Fund.
The objective of this program, which was recently renewed for a further 3 years, is to
help maintain the annual rate of inflation below 4 percent, maintain the momentum of
growth, and keep our foreign exchange reserves at about four months of imports. These
objectives will be achieved through continued tight fiscal and monetary policies and
through efforts to increase exports and contain the current account deficit. The
domestically financed fiscal deficit is targeted to decline from 3 percent in 2001 to 3.0
percent in 2002 and 2.5 percent in 2003, leading to an increase in Government savings
and releasing resources to sustain long-term growth of the economy. Deficit reduction
will be achieved through a combination of improved tax collection and increased
efficiency in public spending through better prioritization, particularly of current
expenditures. Inflation is expected to remain under control between 2 and 4 percent
between 2002-2004. Despite expected increases in imports, improvements in domestic
savings should permit a reduction in the current account deficit from 8.5 percent in 2001
to 8.0 percent in 2002 and 7.2 percent in 2003.
Financial Sector Reform
8.    The pervasive presence of the State in the banking system has had a negative
impact on the development of the economy as a whole by distorting the allocation of
scarce credit resources. Failure to rapidly work out the non-performing assets of the
state-owned banks encouraged a culture of non-payment on the part of debtors.
Weaknesses in the mechanisms for the enforcement of creditor rights and a failure to
rapidly address issues raised by the deliberate destruction of bank documents during the
disturbances in 1997 have further degraded the creditor environment.
9.    Although we have taken many steps to date to address the above issues, we are
now aiming to implement further measures to consolidate the achievements and to foster
better engagement of the financial sector in the development of the Albanian economy.
To this end, the program will focus on continued divestiture of the State from the
financial sector and on further improvement of both the legal and institutional
frameworks necessary for the functioning of a market economy. The core elements of
our program can be grouped into three main categories: (i) continued reform of the
banking sector; (ii) enhancement of the bankruptcy and debt resolution framework; and
(iii) reform of the non-bank financial sector.



30
(i) Continued reform of the banking sector
10.   This component would support the conclusion of efforts towards the privatization
of the last remaining state-owned bank. With this privatization, the sector will be
comprised of private banks which are expected to conduct their business prudently, based
on market principles and incentives.  We realize that in such a private banking
environment, the need for robust banking regulation and supervision will be increased.
Although BoA has a functioning bank supervision program, including an on-site
inspection cycle of 12 months, we plan to substantially strengthen the banking regulatory
and supervisory framework. Finally, measures are being undertaken to enhance banking
competition.
Privatization of State-Owned Banks
11.   As mentioned previously, the process of restructuring and privatization of the
state-owned banks commenced in late 1997 with a decision to close RCB and merge its
performing assets and liabilities into SvB. A total of Lek 3.6 billion of RCB's non-
performing assets, consisting largely of small agricultural loans, were transferred to
BART/ATK at that time. The second phase of the process was the restructuring and
privatization of NCB. This was accomplished by means of substantial technical
assistance to rationalize and modernize NCB's operations. In 2000, a total of Lek 10.4
billion of non-performing assets of NCB were transferred to BART/ATK and the bank
was recapitalized and sold to a consortium of multilateral and private investors. The third
phase of the program, the privatization of SvB, is now moving forward. The bank has
completed its operational restructuring (again with substantial technical assistance), and
Lek 7.0 billion of its non-performing assets have been transferred to BART/ATK in mid-
2001. The bank is being offered for sale through invitation for intemational tender to pre-
selected number of strategic investors. We will select a strategic investor and initiate
negotiations for SvB by the end of June 2002. In addition to IDA, we are receiving
substantial assistance from IFC and EBRD (which will also take equity shares in SvB) in
this endeavor. We expect this privatization to be completed by the end of 2002.
Improvement ofBank Regulation and Supervision
12.   The fundamental framework for bank regulation and supervision has been
established. However, the near-completion of the privatization process for the state-
owned banks has reinforced the importance of further strengthening bank regulation and
particularly, supervision. We view prudent operation of the banking system as critical
given the devastating social and economic impacts of the collapse of the pyramid
schemes in 1997. We have reviewed existing legislation, regulations, and supervisory
practices and have identified a number of areas for improvement.
13.   The Bank of Albania has enjoyed complete independence in the recent past. The
Law on the Bank of Albania establishes this independence, but it could be revised to
firther strengthen BoA's institutional position. To this end, amendments to the Bank of



31
Albania Law have been submitted to the Parliament to increase the independence of the
Govemor and to prohibit members of BoA Supervisory Council form being employed
directly or indirectly in the banking business. These amendments were adopted by
Parliament on May 14 2002. This will help guard against interference through legal gaps,
which could undermnine public confidence in the banking system. In addition, these
amendments will prescribe clear prohibitions against conflicts of interest on the part of
BoA Supervisory Council members both during and after their tenure.
14.   We are currently preparing changes to the Banking Law and BoA regulations
which tighten standards for bank licensing (to include inter alia more stringent screening
criteria for bank owners and managers and a more careful evaluation of the managers'
technical ability to oversee banking operations and risk management), for licensing
additional banking activities, and to better define restrictions on transactions between
banks and connected parties. At the same time, BoA intends to prepare regulations which
better define the scope of asset classification requirements, fully develop rules related to
the calculation and reporting of large credit exposures, and require accurate recognition
of losses and earnings in bank financial reports. We plan to submit the changes to the
Banking Law to Parliament view to their adoption by end-2002, and concurrently will
introduce the associated regulation.
15.   As part of our international obligations and cooperation, BoA has recently
adopted modem regulations on the prevention of money laundering and is working
closely with the Ministry of Finance in enhancing the enforcement of money laundering
legislation in Albania with assistance from the US Treasury and IFIs.
16.   With donor assistance, progress has been made to improve the supervisory
process. A comprehensive CAMELS rating framnework has been introduced, a manual
for on-site inspections has been drafted, and steps have been taken to establish an Early
Warning System (EWS) function. BoA has also made efforts to strengthen its supervisory
capability, both with regard to on-site inspection and off-site monitoring and has
established an annual on-site examination cycle. Training programs have covered several
important areas of supervision such as the evaluation of credit risk and procedures, and
the management of liquidity, interest and exchange rate risks. In spite of this progress,
supervisory skills remain weak, and retention of qualified and experienced staff is an
issue. Human resource concerns and the lack of rigorous application of the existing
banking law and regulations, together, result in a generally weak system of bank
oversight and supervision.
17.   Given the relatively recent operational restructuring and recapitalization of the
largest banks in the system, this is an opportune time to take decisive steps to further
build a rigorous regulatory and bank supervision program, as well as to introduce and
reinforce a strong bank compliance culture with sound operating practices. To begin
with, since efforts would be lost if BoA were unable to retain adequate human resources,
improvements are being made to adjust the level of remuneration and to introduce
different personnel levels reflecting different levels of skills. We also plan to revise the
Code of Ethics for all supervisory staff to address, inter alia, potential conflicts of



32
interests. We will also expand the dialog with the external audit industry and raise the
level of expectations for banks' extemal audit processes and the accuracy and integrity of
audit results, thereby helping to supplement our own supervisory efforts. We wiU
institute a type of ((quality assurance)) process which will provide at least two pre-
identified benefits: (i) help to communicate to senior and executive BoA management
the progress and effectiveness of regulatory and supervisory activities, and (ii)
communicate additional bank-specific issues which may not be raised through the regular
management reporting process. Additional plans exist to more actively enforce bank
regulation and supervisory practices, improve the on- and off-site supervisory functions,
and enhance licensing practices, through additional technical assistance and advisory
oversight. The above steps are all reflected in a Supervisory Development Plan agreed
with IDA and which was adopted by BoA's Supervisory Council in March 2002. We
hope to substantially improve the effectiveness of the supervisory process with the
implementation of SDP. The Plan incorporates specific measures and steps, including
improvements in BoA regulations for supervision of banks (as agreed with IDA). We are
fully conmnitted to the implementation of the SDP.
18.   Strengthening of the supervisory system is a prerequisite for the establishment of
a deposit insurance scheme. We recognize that a well-designed deposit insurance scheme
provides a useful tool to increase confidence in the banking system and to encourage
deposit mobilization. The increase in the flow of financial resources into the banking
system will contribute to improved intermediation between savers and borrowers. We
believe that it is appropriate to implement this scheme now that the banking system is
well capitalized, has very low risk assets, and the Savings Bank privatization process is
sufficiently advanced. Accordingly, Parliament adopted a deposit insurance law and we
intend to establish a Deposit Insurance Agency based on the law. We plan to develop in
the coming year a financial program to ensure the solvency of the deposit insurance
agency and to make satisfactory progress in the implementation of this program (which
will be assessed jointly with IDA during 2003).
Enhancing Competition
19.   Development of capital markets and the banking sector as a whole is now
inhibited by limited competition in the Treasury Bill market, the lack of an efficient
interbank settlement system, and the lack of an efficient system for low value payments.
In order to increase banking competition in the Treasury Bill market and in the provision
of financial services for the Government, we have already improved procedures to allow
the general public to more easily purchase Treasury Bills. In 2002, we held open
auctions based on which we contracted govemment fiscal functions out in Durres and
Elbasan. We intend to continue these efforts. In addition, we are actively encouraging
state-owned enterprises to seek banking with private banks, based on best services
provided. In order to improve the interbank settlemnent system, we intend to complete
three steps by early 2003: first, the real time gross settlement system (RTGS), for which
procurement is underway, will become operational; second, not less than five banks will
be connected to RTGS; and, third, we intend to develop a small value clearing and
settlement system (the objective of BoA is to have this scheme come on-stream at about



33
the same time as the RTGS) and to ensure that the appropriate legal framework is in place
for its operation.
(ii) Enhancement of the bankruptcy and debt resolution framework
20.   This part of our program will build on the efforts undertaken to date and focus
particularly on improving implementation and enforcement of the bankruptcy and
secured charges legislation. It is hoped that with the improvements in the bankruptcy and
secured charges framework, and creditors rights, the banking sector will engage more
proactively in crediting the economy and hence help further the growth of the enterprise
sector.
21.   A related key area of reforms is improvement in the framework for the work out
of bad debt. This includes the redefinition of the role of BART/ATK in the resolution of
its inherited portfolio through adoption of the new BART/ATK law and the Strategy and
Business Plan. A major focus will also be on the divestiture of assets held by
BART/ATK and its closure at the sunset time.
22.   Improvements to the framework for bankruptcy and debt recovery are essential if
the newly privatized banking sector is to be able to fulfill its function of providing credit
to the economy efficiently. The current inability of creditors to enforce their rights is a
major obstacle to the provision of financing and has resulted in an extremely low level of
bank lending. Separately, the large backlog of non-performing debts transferred from the
state-owned banks to BART/ATK must be quickly resolved in order to restore needed
discipline to the system which has been undermined by the widespread failure of
borrowers to repay debts to the state-owned banks
Reform of the Legal and Institutional Framework for Bankruptcy and Debt
Recovery
23.   We have made progress recently in improving the legal framework for secured
lending through the enactment of the Law on Securing Charges. The Registry for
Securing Charges commenced operations in 2001 and to date over 2000 secured loans
had been registered. In early 2002 we enacted regulations to ensure the long-term
financial and operational viability of the Registry by incorporating the Registry as an
integral budgetary responsibility of the Ministry of Finance.
24.   The second pillar of the creditor framework, a functioning bankruptcy and
insolvency system, does not yet exist. While legislation has been enacted in the past, no
Albanian court has ever handled a case of insolvency or bankruptcy. In addressing this
problem we have also recognized that the interaction between insolvency and bankruptcy
law and the new Law on Securing Charges must be well designed and free of conflicts. In
particular, bankruptcy should not provide debtors with a means to prevent the seizure of
collateral registered under the Law on Securing Charges.



34
25.   As part of our efforts to improve the creditors rights, the Council of Ministers
approved on April 13, 2002, a new insolvency law substantially in line with the EU
legislation and in line with the World Bank's Principles and Guidelines for Insolvency
and Creditor Rights Systems. The insolvency law, that was adopted by the Parliament in
May 22, 2002. This law will provide a satisfactory regulatory framework for insolvency.
In order to enable satisfactory implementation and enforcement of the new framework,
the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice have jointly approved an Institutional
Development Program to support the process of insolvency and secured financing
enforcement. The implementation of the program will be funded from already identified
bilateral and multilateral sources, including existing IDA credits. We are fully committed
to the implementation of this program as agreed with IDA and by mid 2003 we will have
completed not less than three pilot cases to test the operation of the reformed insolvency
framework.
Reform of BARTIATK
26.   Since its formation in 1997, BART/ATK has enjoyed only very limited success in
working out the assets transferred to it from the banks. BART/ATK's failure to work out
claims and enforce its rights as a creditor has a negative impact on the banking system by
preventing otherwise creditworthy borrowers from establishing relationships with
privately owned banks and, simultaneously, by failing to enforce its creditor rights
(particularly against debtors whose credit files were destroyed in the disturbances in
1997) encourages a lack of creditor discipline. In addition, the recently completed KPMG
diagnostic audit of BART/ATK indicates very serious institutional weaknesses and
reinforces the case that a drastic restructuring of it is now required. We have already
taken steps to restructure and strengthen BART/ATK's management and will take further
steps to strengthen the management team if this is required. We, in conjunction with the
conclusions of the diagnostic audit, have identified three key weaknesses of BART/ATK:
first, it lacks a clear mandate to aggressively work out assets and transfer them to the
private sector within a defined period of time. Second, it lacks the governance and
controls appropriate for an institution entrusted with a substantial portfolio of state assets.
Third, it lacks the legal tools required to effectively enforce its rights as a creditor.
27.   In order to transform BART/ATK into a mechanism for speedy elimination of the
stock of non-performing assets, we have embarked on an ambitious program of
institutional and legal reforms, Parliament has adopted on May 14, 2002 a new Law on
BART/ATK which will fundamentally transform it as an institution and give it a clear
mandate to achieve the objective of resolving its portfolio (by transparent sales or transfer
to private sector management) by the end of 2005. The governance of BART/ATK will
be simultaneously restructured by significantly strengthening the oversight role of the
Supervisory Board, by establishing a Management Board with clear responsibility and
accountability, and by introducing an Investment Board to provide independent advice
and review regarding BART/ATK's operations and work out activities. As a starting
point towards improving its operations and better management of its portfolio,
BART/ATK has signed a loan servicing agreement with SvB for back-office (servicing
and bookkeeping) responsibility for loans carved out of SvB. We have also completed



35
tender procedures for at least two qualified international consultants (to be funded using
resources provided from IDA credits) to provide assistance to BART/ATK in achieving
the objectives established by its new mandate and, secure donor financing for the three
members of BART/ATK's new Investment Board.
28.   By the end of September 2002, BART/ATK (using the results of its extended
audit by KPMG) will adopt a strategic and business plan which will establish quantitative
and qualitative time bound objectives for the Management Board to achieve, and which
will be closely monitored by the Supervisory Board. At a minimum, BART/ATK will
achieve the objectives of resolving not less than 15 percent by value and 10 percent by
number of its gross assets by the end of June 2003; and, we intend that it will resolve not
less than 50 percent by value and 50 percent by number of its assets by mid-2004; and,
not less than 90 percent by value and 75 percent by number of its assets by mid-2005.
Any assets remaining on BART/ATK's books at the end of 2005 will be transformed into
state claims and transferred to the Ministry of Finance for future resolution. BARTATK
will cease to exist as an institution at the same time.
Improvements to Financial Reporting
29.   The final pillar in the development of a functioning credit market is development
of transparent and accurate financial reporting by corporations and improvements in their
governance to protect creditors. No credit information system can function effectively if
the financial information provided to it by corporations is inaccurate or incomplete and
lenders must enjoy protections against fraud by corporate owners and managers. We will
address these issues by means of a two-part strategy.
30.   The current Law on Accounting, which was published in 1993, describes the
methods by which accounting records are to be maintained and provides an outline of the
contents of the annual financial statements. The Trade Company law of 1992 mandates
the annual audit of the financial statements of all companies, which exceed certain
income and asset size criteria. An amendment to the Law in 1995 brought about the
creation of an institute of auditors (IEKA). IEKA has received substantial technical
assistance since its inception including assistance in the development of an auditing
manual compliant with International Standards on Auditing (ISA). We intend to mandate
the use of ISA, through amendments to the Trade Company Law. In 1998, the BoA
issued a new chart of accounts and accounting manual, developed with financial and
technical support from the EU Phare. The new chart of accounts and the accompanying
instructions are substantially in conformity with IAS. All banks have now implemented
the new uniform chart of accounts. The BoA mandates the preparation of IAS financial
statements for all banks, which causes some contradictions with the current Accounting
Law. To that end, a new Accounting Law should be introduced in order to provide for
full application of International Standards in the area of bank accounting; this would
remove the inconsistency and effectively mandate the BoA to maintain its reporting
requirements in line with developments in IAS. We have drafted a new Accounting Law
and are currently making revisions to streamline this law and make it compliant with
recognized international norms. We expect Parliamentary adoption of this law, together



36
with amendments to other relevant legislation by end-2002.  We expect full
implementation of International Accounting Standards for banks following adoption. We
also plan full implementation of Intemational Accounting Standards for insurance
companies and any other entities, which have a public, trust obligations.
31.   Although, Albania currently has no operating securities market, with its history of
collapsed pyramid schemes, it will be essential for any securities market which might
develop to be effectively regulated so as to quickly build the trust of the investing public.
One aspect of securities market regulation is the enforcement of adequate financial
disclosure on those companies wishing to list their securities. We, therefore, also plan to
mandate implementation of IAS for corporations, which issue their securities to the
public and mandatory use of an appropriate chart of accounts following adoption of the
new accounting law. We are aware that amending only accounting and auditing
legislation is not sufficient to introduce standards for transparency and good govemance
for corporations. We, therefore, intend to complete during 2002 a review of the
commercial code, securities legislation, and other appropriate legislation to identify
amendments needed for introduction of standards for transparency and good governance.
(Ui) Reform of the non-bankfinancial sector
32.   Our efforts in this area include further development of the regulatory and
supervisory framework for the insurance sector and the privatization of INSIG. Efforts
for the privatization INSIG have been supported by IDA as well as by IFC and EBRD, in
collaboration with the management of INSIG. To this end and with your support, IFC is
considering a pre-privatization equity investment in INSIG. The development of the
regulatory and supervisory framework is being elaborated with support from the World
Bank both through grant-funded technical assistance from the IFC and from the IDA-
financed FSIBTA Project.
33.   INSIG is the principle company offering insurance services in Albania and,
although competion is increasing, it still has a major market share (about 60 percent of
nonlife at end-2001). In line with the Gonverment's program of divestiture from the
financial sector, we have decided to move forward with efforts to restructure and
privatize INSIG. To this end, in February 2000, the Government adopted a decision to
prepare INSIG for "privatization". With assistance from IDA in support of its pre-
privatization efforts, INSIG has prepared two key policy docunents ("INSIG Draft
Strategic Plan 2001-2003", and "INSIG Proposed Framework for Privatization"). These
documents addressed a number of topics including: adopting a sales process which will
provide the Governent with options for selling INSIG to quality investors;
recommending changes to the legal framework in order to increase the appeal of
investing in the financial services industry in Albania; and pre-privatization steps aimed
at making INSIG more attractive to potential investors.
34.   After considering the various options, we have adopted the following strategy for
the privatization of INSIG. Privatization will take place through a three-phase process:
(i) a pre-privatization sale of up to 40 percent to international financial institutions (IFC



37
and EBRD) by negotiations; (ii) 12 months after this sale, to offer by intemational tender
no less than an additional 40 percent of the shares to strategic investor(s) and (iii) within
5 years of the pre-privatization, to sell remaining Government shares to private Albanian
banks and credit institutions through public offering. This strategy is incorporated in the
Privatization Law, which Parliament has adopted in May 22, 2002. We intend to retain
professional advice to help with the implementation of phase (ii) of this strategy to help
ensure the transparency and integrity of the process.
35.   Privatization of the insurance sector in turn requires development of an adequate
regulatory and supervisory framework designed to stimulate healthy competition in the
market. With assistance from the International Finance Corporation we have developed
recommendations for improvements in the insurance legislation and in the operations of
the Albanian Insurance Supervision Commission (AISC). To this end, we have prepared
a package of legislation including: (i) draft amendments to the Insurance Law; and (ii)
draft regulations on basic financial and statistical reports required by AISC from
insurance copmanies operating in Albania. We will approve the letter by end-2002. We
plan to submit the draft amendments to the Insurance Law to Parliament later this year,
with a view to the early adoption. Additionally, we plan to prepare amendments to the
1992 TPL law in our efforts to move toward international standards. We expect these
amendments to be adopted by Parliament by early-2003.
36. As an immediate step to reduce the risk in the insurance market, we have adopted
regulations setting premium and reserve requirements for third party liability insurance.
We are fully committed to migrate the AISC toward an independent status and by end-
2002 we will take steps in this regard by providing AISC with budgetary and operational
independence. In order to help long-term development of AISC, we are currently
preparing an institutional strengthening plan. We intend to ensure the implementation of
this plan through securing technical assistance from bilateral and multilateral donors.
Sincerely.
,K   Minister o f  ~c                     Govenof of the Bank of Albania
a%.   SbI



38
Annex 11
Proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
Draft Matrix of Key Actions'8
I.      BANKING SECTOR REFORM
Pre-Board                             2                                 22
Area          LDP Achievements          Board Conditions         Tranche Release Conditions2            Monitorable Indicators
Banking          Solicitation of        Short listing of strategic  Finalization of SvB sale       Signing of sales contract with strategic
Privatization    expressions of interest  investors.                through signature of contract  investor(s).
from strategic investors                          for sale of not less than 50%+1
for SvB sale through                               of SvB's shares.
international tender.
Banking          Imnprovement in                                                                   Outsourcing of budgetary and fiscal functions to
Competition      procedures offering T-                                                           private banks through open auctions in 6 major
Bills to the public.                                                             towns.
Increase in credits to private sector as percentage
of GDP from current level of 4.6%.
Drop in interest rate spreads.
Increase in sales of T-Bills to the public.
8 According to the Development Credit Agreement, key actions also include: (i) agreement with the IMF on a medium-term macroeconomuc framework endorsed by the
PRGF as a condition for the Board presentation; and (ii) satisfactory compliance with the macroeconomic framework, as assessed by the World Bank and the IMF, as a
condition for the tranche release.
2 Bolded actions depict core conditions for Board and tranche release as well as momtorable indicators that relate to tranche release conditions. Other indicators relate to
the Government's own agenda and goals as set out in the LDP.



39
1.     BANKING SECTOR REFORM
Pre-Board                            2                                                                 2
Area          LDP Achievements        Board Conditions        Tranche Release Conditions2           Monitorable Indicators2
Deposit         Enactment of a                                   Establishment of the DIA and  Capitalization of the DIA to the levels agreed.
Insurance       satisfactory deposit                             satisfactory progress in
insurance law.                                   implementing its financing    Development of adequate staMng levels.
plan.
Provision of adequate budget.
Approval by BoA of a 3-year financing plan
for the DIA
Banking         Submission to                                                                  Parliamentary adoption of
Regulation      Parliament of                                                                  of the amendments to the Banking Law and the
satisfactory                                                                   Law on the Bank of Albania.
amendments to the Law
on the Bank of Albania.                                                        Adoption of satisfactory regulations by the BoA.
Banking                               Adoption of agreed         Satisfactory implementation of  As per SDP.
Supervision                           Supervisory Development    the SDP.
Plan (SDP) by the BoA.
Development of  Evaluation of bids for                                                         Establishment of the necessary legislative
an Efficient    the RTGS system.                                                               framework for the operations of a small value
Payments                                                                                       (bulk) clearing and settlement system (BCSS).
System
Initiation of the RTGS system operations.
Connection of not less than 5 banks into the
RTGS.



40
H.     ENHANCEMENT OF THE BANKRUPTCY AND DEBT RESOLUTION FRAMEWORK
Area             .Pre.Board            Board-Condltions       Tranche Release Conditions            Monitorable Indicators
LDP Achlevements
Bankruptcy                           Adoption of agreed         Satisfactory progress in     Completion of no less than 3 pilot cases to test
framework                             Institutional Development  implementation of the       the operation of the framework.
Program for bankruptcy     Institutional Development
enforcement and secured    Program (IDP) for bankruptcy  As per IDP.
financing.                 enforcement and secured
flnancing.
Adoption of a satisfactory
insolvency law.
Collateral    Provision of adequate                                                          Maintenance of at least 2 staff for the Registry.
Enforcement   arrangements for
financial and operational
viability of the Secured
Charges Registry for 2002
and beyond.
Improvement   Complete drafting a new                                                        Enactment of a satisfactory Accounting Law and
of Financial  Accounting Law.                                                                of amendments to relevant legislation,
reporting                                                                                    mandating full implementation of IAS for banks,
insurance companies, and entities with public
trust obligations.
Mandatory implementation of IAS for
corporations issuing securities to the public and
their use of an appropriate chart of accounts.
Mandatory use by audit firms of ISA.
Review relevant legislation to identify
amendments needed for introduction of
standards for transparency and good governance
for corporations.
BARTDebt      Conclusion of the BART  Adoption of satisfactory  Satisfactory implementation of  Adoption and implementation of the Strategic
Workout       audit and submission of  BART Law.                Strategic and Business Plan,  and Business Plan.
the results to IDA.                               including divestiture of 15% of
its portfolio value.         Resolution of 15% of BART's portfolio
Ivalue.



41
In.    REFORM OF NON-BANK FINANCIAL SECTOR
Pre-Boird
Area          LDP Achievements          Board Conditions     . Tranche.Release Conditions             Moultorable Indicators
INSIG        Agreement on the         Adoption of privatization                                Signing of sales contract with a strategic
Privatization  privatization strategy for  law for INSIG.                                      investor(s) and/or IFI.
INSIG.
Independent board and commercial management
structure for INSIG.
Retention by MoF of professional advise to help
with the privatization program.
Insurance    Approval by MoF of       Completion of drafting new  Enactment of a satisfactory  Enactment of amendments to Insurance Law.
Regulation   regulations on premiums  legislation for the insurance  insurance legislation.
and          and reserving for third  sector.                                                  Progress in the use of a basic set of financial
Supervision  party liability insurance (at                       Establishment of an insurance  and statistical reporting requirements.
levels agreed with IDA).                            regulatory agency with
budgetary and operational    Adoption of revisions to the 1992 TPL Law.
Agreement on migration of                           independence, acceptable to
AISC towards an                                     IDA.                          Independence of AISC measured against
independent status.                                                              progress in meeting the essential criteria of
IAIS Core Principle 1.



42
Annex 1II
Statement of IDA Credits
ALBANIA - FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
02-May-2002
Original Amount In USS Millions    Difference between
Expected and Actual
Disbursements
Project ID  FY   Purpose                               IBRD     IDA   Cancel. Undisb       O9g    Frm Revised
P069479    2002 FISHERY DEVT                            0.00    5.60    0.00   5.51        0.00         0.00
P070078    2001  TRADE & TRANS FACIL IN SE EUR          0.00    8.10    0.00   6.70        2.60         0.00
P055383    2001  SOC SERV DEVT                          0.00   10.00    0.00   9.55       -0.25         0.00
P054736    2001  AG SERVICES                            0.00    9.90    0.00   9.26        0.09         0.00
P057182    2000 LEGAL/JUDICIAL REFORM                   0.00    9.00    0.00    7.60       3.76         0.00
P066491    2000 WS URGENT REHAB                         0.00   10.00    0.00   7.38        4 22         0.00
P068853    2000 EMERGENCY ROAD REPAIR                   0.00   13.65    0.00   6.65        5.13         3.45
P069079    2000 FINANCIAL SECTOR IBTA                   0.00    6.50    0.00   4.17        1.48         0.00
P069120    2000 EDUC REFORM                             0.00   12.00    0.00   10.32      -0.11         0.00
P069939    2000 PUBLIC ADMIN REFORM                     0 00    8.50    0.00   7.46        2.40         0.00
P043178    1999 IRRIG & DRAIN 11                        0.00   24.00    0.00   8.64       -1.28         0.00
P05 1309   1999 COMMUNITY WORKS                         0 00    9.00    0.00   0.41        5 27         0.00
P051310    1999 MICROCREDIT                             0.00   12.00    0.00   5.00       -0.74         0.00
P045312    1998 HEALTH RECOVERY                         0 00   17.00    0.00   12.00      13.15         0.00
P054384    1998 RECOVERY PROG TA                        0.00    5.00    0.00   0.46        048          0.54
P051602    1998 PRIVATE INDUSTRY RECOVERY               0.00   10.25    0.00   5.32        5 86         0.00
P040975     1998 LAND DEVT                              0.00   10.00    0.00   6.51        5.82         000
P040818     1998 DURRES PORT                            0.00   16.99    0.00    8.38       8.09         0.70
P034491    1996 POWER TRNSM & DIST                     0 00    29.50    4.49   11.30      19.96         0.00
P036060    1996 NATL ROADS                              0.00   25.00    0.00   0.69        2.33         0 00
P008271    1996 FORESTRY                               0 00     8.00    0.00    1.95       2.67        -0.11
Total:    0.00  259.99    4.49  135.26      70.38         4.59



43
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
January 2002
In Millions US Dollars
IFC Committed                   IFC Disbursed
FY Approval Company              Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998         AAP                  0.00   28.50    0.00    0.00   0.00    9.15    0.00    0.00
2000         NCBank               0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   2.00    0.00    0.00
1999         SEF Eurotech         0.90    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.90    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999         SEF FEFAD Bank       0.00    0.98    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.98    0.00    0.00
2001         Seament             15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:  15.90  31.48    0.00    0.00    0.90  12.13    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval    Company                     Loan     Equity    Quasi    Partic
1998           Patos Marinza             30.00      0.00     0.00     50.00
2001           Pastos Marinza In          10.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Pending Comnmitment  40.00     0.00      0.00    50.00



44
Annex IV
Albania at a glance                                                              5/14/02
Europe &    Lovrer-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Cenra    middle-
Albania      Asa    income      Dvlopment diamond'
2001
Population. mid-year (nmillons)                       34        475     2.046                 Lfe expectancy
GNI per caprta (Adets mn td  US$)                   1.230     2.010     1,140
GNI (Atlas method. USS blos)                          4 2       950     2327
Averae annual growth. 1995.01
Populallon(%)                                         09         01        10 '   GN
Labor force (%)13                                                0 6       13     GNI                             Gross
Most recent estimate (latst year available, 1995-01)                              capita        -                pnrmary
Poverty (% ofpopulation below national poverty line)
Urban population (6 oftotalpopulation)                 40        67        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       74        69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 lIve bidhs)                20        21        32
Child malnutrtion (X of children under 5)               8                  11          Access to Improved water source
Access to an Improved water source S6 ofpopulation)              90        80
Illiteracy (6 ofpopulation age 15+)                    15         3        15
Gross prmary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)   110       100       114              Aloana
Male                                                109       101       116              Lower-middle4-ncome group
Female                                              110        99       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1001     1991      2000      2001
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ ltons)                                .      11         3 8      4 1
Gross domestic lnvestmenVGDP                35.1      7.3       186      19 4
Exports of goods and servicesiGDP           23 0      7 2       18 9     204                     Trade
Gross domestic savingsiGDP                  36 6     -13.0      -29       -3 7
Gros national savings/GDP                            -14.2      11.6     13 1
Current account balancelGDP                          -21.6      -7.2      4 3     Domestc        -
Interest paymnentslGDP                                0.2       02        0.3                          .      If Investment
Total debtWGDP                                       44 9      209       230      savigs.
Total debt servlceexports                             3 9        21       2 7
Present value of debtlGDP                                       12 9
Present value of debtexports                                   38 5
Indebtedness
1981-91  199141      2000      2001   200145
(averag annual growth)
GOP                                 -0 5     5 4      7 8       6 5       6 7         -     Albania
GOP per capita                     -2.4      4.6      6 9       5 6       6 3         --    Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services               11 7      5 8      24.8       5 5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% Of GOP)                                                                        20
Agriculture                                 32 4     39 3      51 0      49 1
Industry                                    43 0     42 7      26 3      27 3     10
Manufacturing                                       36 5      11 6      11 6
Services                                    24.6     18.0       22 7     23 6 8
Private consumption                         54.9     90 9      92.0      90 9     -10I
Generalgovemmentconsumption                  85      221        109      129                     G01       C  GDP
Imports of goods and services               21 5     27 6      40.4      43 5
198191   199141       2000      2001     Growth of exports and Imports (%M
(ave3eW annua groWth)
Agnculture                                   10       61        4 0       14      ro-
Industry                                    40.5      5.0      114       107 7 
Manufacturng                   4                    08         5 0       685    20
Services                                     -30      51       133       138      o
Private consumption                                   5 4       2 8       6.7    -20                      go 03 0o
General govemment consumption                         3 1       7 4      12.0    -40
Gross domestic Inwestment                   -1 0     201       179       11.1                  Exports    0-pmpa-
Imports of goods and services                        11 0       6 5      23 5
Note. 2001 data are prelimnary estimates
The diamonds show four key Indicators in the country (In bold) compared with its Income-group average It data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete



45
Annex IV
Albania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FiNANCE
1981     1991      2000      2001     InfLaton
Domtestic prices
(% change)                                                                           r -
Consumer pnces                                        49 4       01        3 1     x0 *
Implict GDP deflator                         -2 2     34 5       -1 2      2 8     20 -
Government f1nance
(% of GDP, Inctudes cunent grants)
Current revenue                                       34 3      22 4      23 0     .10           97     o     9    co0   C
Current budget balance                           .    -21 7      -2.4     -1 2            -     ¢D  deflator -CPI
Overail surplus/deficit                         .     -27 8      -9 1     -8 5
TRADE
1981     1991      2000      2001      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ itwomns)
Total exports (fob)                           419      101       258      305      1,5a
Commodity I                                                     28               1 250
Commodity 2                                                      14        ,        .* 0
Manufactures                                                   218               l*0 0
Total Imports (cif)                           384      409      1,070    1,332      750
Food                                                           217                s*
Fuel and energy                                                 71                250
Capital goods                                 .                230                    J ss        J    El
Export price Index (1995=100)
Import prce Index (1995=100)                    ..       .         ,                            Exports     *lrrports
Terms of trade (1995=t100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
19S1     1991      2000      2001      Current account balance to GOP I%)
(USS millions)
Exports of goods and services                 431       82       705      840       0
Importsofgoodsandservices                     403      314     1,520     1,791          _ 
Resource balance                               28     -232      -815      -951     4   .          *         * 
Net Income                                     11      -22       106      148           *    *    *
Net cuffent transfers                           .        8       439      543
Current account balance                        45     -246      -270      -280 0    o -
Financing items (net)                         -19       24       381      391
Changes in net reserves                       -26      221      -111      -131     -s
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (USS milions)          ..                638      767
Conversion rate (DEC, loca/US$)                 ..    14 4     143 7     143 5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000      2001
(USS millins)                                                                      Comrpositlon of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..      512       784      945
IBRD                                                   0         0        0                      G37
IDA                                                    0       346         .               F37
Total debt service                              .        4        27       41
IBRD                                          ..      0          0        0
IDA                                                    0         2        3             2B 346
Composition of net resource flows
OfIlcial grants                              ..     320        161
Ofiicial creditors                            .      20         93
Private creditors                                    28         -1
Foreign direct Investment                     .       0        143                         D s   -
Portfiooequity                               ..        0         0                                 C Be
Wold Bank program
Commitments                                   .       0         54       20      A - IBRD                    E - Bilaleral
Disbursements                                 .       0         84       34      8 - IDA   D - Other mLdblateras  F - Pnvate
Pnncipal repayments                          ..       0          0        0      C-IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                     ..      0         64       34
Interest paynients                                    0          2        3
Net transfers                                 .       0         62       31
Development Economics                                                                                              514/02
Rochelle Hilton
P \ALBANIA\PFSD\BANKPRJV\4BOARD\presidentrpt-fsac-May 14 doc
May 21, 2002 6.17 PM









"   IMAGING
Report No.: P      7543   ALB
Type:     PR



