Document of
The World Bank;
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19353
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Bolivia
Financial Markets and Pension Reform
(Credit 2789-BO)
June 21, 1999
Finance, Private Sector and Infastructure Sector Management Unit
Country Management Unit for Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EXCHANGE RATE
(As of May 15, 1999)
Currency Unit = Bolivianos (Bs)
US$1.00 = Bs. 5.6
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFP          Administradora de Fondos de Pensiones (Pension Fund Manager)
BBA          Banco Boliviano Americano (Bolivian American Bank)
BOLIVIDA    Non-hereditary annuity derived from capitalization shares for elder Bolivians
BONOSOL    Bono Solidario (Solidarity Bond)
CPAC         Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit
CONFIP       Comite de Normas Financieras Prudenciales (Financial Sector Prudential
Norms Committee)
ESAF         Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FCC          Fondo de Capitalizacion Colectiva (Collective Capitalization Fund)
DGF          Deposit Guarantee Fund
FONCOM       Fondo Complementario (Complementary Pension Fund)
FONDESIF    Fondo de Desarollo del Sistema Financiero (Financial Sector Development
Fund)
FOPEBA       Fondo de Pensiones Bdsicas (Public Pension Fund)
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
IDA          International Development Association
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
IMF          International Monetary Fund
LDP          Letter of Development Policy
MOC          Ministry of Capitalization
PAYGO        Pay-As-You-Go
PCP          Ley de Participaci6n y Credito Pilico (Popular Participation and Credit Law)
RRSAC        Regulatory Reform Sector Adjustment Credit
RMV          Registro del Mercado de Valores (Securities Registry)
SBEF         Superintendencia de Bancos y Entidades Financieros (Financial Sector
Supervisory Agency)
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
SIRESE       Sistema de Regulacion Sector Financiero (System for Financial Sector
Regulation)
SIRESE       Sistema de Regulaci6n Sectorial (Sectoral Regulation System)
SOE          State-owned Enterprise
SPVS         Superintendencia de Pensiones, Valores y Seguros (Pensions, Securities, and
Insurance Supervisory Agency)
Vice President:       Mr. S. Javed Burki
Country Director:     Mrs. Isabel Guerrero
Sector Director:      Mr. Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader:     Mr. H. von Gersdorff



FOR OFFICMIL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .........................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ........................................................                                              ii
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ........................................1
A. Background .....................................................1
B. Project Objectives and Design ....................................................l1
C. Achievement of Objectives .....................................................2
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project ....................................................                  10
E.  Program  Sustainability ....................................................                           10
F.  Bank Performance ....................................................                                  12
G. Borrower Performance ....................................................                               13
H. Assessment of Outcome ....................................................                              13
I.   Key Lessons Learned ....................................................                              16
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ........................................................                                   18
Table 1: Summary of Assessment .................................................... 19
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ....................................................                   20
Table 3: Project Timetable ....................................................                            21
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ........ 21
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ......................................... 22
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ................................................... 22
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ....................................................                  23
Table 8A: Project Costs ....................................................                               24
Table 8B: Project Financing ....................................................                           24
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ....................................................                    24
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ....................................................                   26
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............................ 27
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ....................................................                  28
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ....................................................                    29
APPENDIX ........................................................                                                        30
A. Aide Memoire ........................................................                                   30
B.  Borrower Evaluation ........................................................                           32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
FINANCIAL MARKETS AND PENSION REFORM
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2789-BO)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Financial Markets and
Pension Reform Technical Assistance Project for Bolivia, for which credit 2789-BO in the
amount of SDR 6.1 million (US$8.4 million equivalent) was approved on November 7, 1995,
and became effective on March 28, 1996. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1998, as
scheduled and disbursed 90% of its funds. The last disbursement took place on April 1, 1999.
The ICR was prepared by Nicole Barbery (Financial Consultant) and by Herrnann von
Gersdorff (Task Manager) and reviewed by Luis Guasch, Sue Goldmark and Maria Victoria
Lister (LCSPF). Preparation of this ICR began during an ICR mission which took place in April
1999. The ICR is based on materials in the project file, interviews with IDA staff involved in
project implementation, interviews with the Borrower's staff in Bolivia, and additional
information requested from the Borrower to facilitate the review of the project. The Borrower's
own evaluation of the project's perfornance is included as Appendix B of the ICR.






ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY
BOLIVIA
FINANCIAL MARKETS AND PENSION REFORM
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2789-BO)
BACKGROUND AND PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
i.   The Financial Markets and Pension Reform Technical Assistance Credit aimed to provide
assistance to the Government of Bolivia to strengthen the financial sector and to reform Bolivia's
pension system. Pension system supervision was very weak and there were no regulatory
institutions in place to supervise the proposed new private pension fund administrators (AFPs).
Securities market regulation was incipient. Both the new reforms contemplated in the proposed
Securities Law as well as the responsibilities emanating from the capitalization program and
pensions reform, implied a large increase in the need for regulation and supervision in these
markets. In parallel, the Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions (SBEF), although
generally considered quite strong in its institutional capacity, has had to deal with an increasingly
complex financial market and a fragile banking sector.
ii.  Specifically, the program's intent was to develop the regulations, norms institution
building measures, and information systems connected with the financial sector components of
the Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit (CPAC)1, and support or creation of
implementing regulatory institutions.  The projects objectives were to: (i) establish the
institutional structure and information systems necessary for regulation and supervision of the
proposed pension and capitalization distribution systems; (ii) improve securities regulation,
strengthen the institutional capacity of the Supervisory Agency of Securities, and improve
information systems to regulate market activity; (iii) establish a transparent and efficient process
for the distribution of capitalized shares including trustee and international bidding
arrangements; and (iv) continue the institutional strengthening of the SBEF. The credit, in the
amount of SDR 6.1 million, was approved on November 7, 1995, and became effective March
28, 1996.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
iii. Overall, the program's objectives were achieved successfully. The four main areas of
reform included: (i) Pension Reform; (ii) Pension Superintendency; (iii) Capital Markets
Development; and (iv) Banking Strengthening. The project outcomes, which were to be
reflected in the issuance of norms and the implementation of monitoring and inspection
procedures supported by institution-building measures in the target agencies, have been met.
Maintenance of sound legal and administrative frameworks to regulate the banking, securities
IICR No. 19096, dated March 30, 1999, Bolivia: Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit
ICR No. 18754, dated December 28, 1998, Bolivia: Private Enterprise Development Project.



iii
and pension areas is an ongoing effort and continued strengthening will support sustainability of
the reforms.
iv.  Pension Reform. The approval of the Pension Law, which was passed in November of
1996, allowed for Bolivia to completely restructure the existing pension and social insurance
systems by replacing the old pay-as-you-go system with a funded system of individual accounts
managed by two private administrators (AFPs), that were selected through an international
bidding process, based on lowest fees. These fees have given Bolivia the lowest fee structure in
the Region, although it remains to be seen whether this can be sustained after 2002 when the
sector is opened up to new entrance. The reform is indeed having one of its hoped for effects: by
mid-1998, the AFPs had approximately 383,000 members, a 22% increase over the coverage of
the old system. Monthly contribution collection has been double that of the old system and after
one year the pension fund is larger then Bs. 1000 million, that is about US$200 million
v.  The fiscal impact of the Pension reform was estimated at 2.5 percent in 1997 and in 1998-
1999 is expected to rise to between 3 and 4 percent of GDP. The financing requirements of the
reform turned out to be much higher than initially estimated. Part of the difference arose from
the previous Government's decision to assume the liabilities of all complementary pension funds
(FONCOM) towards the end of the reform process. The initial plan covered only the liabilities
of the basic pension system, the only fully public part of the pension system. The liabilities of
the FONCOM increased financing requirements by about 80%. Under the new Government
financing requirements increased by another 1% of GDP when the possibility to retire under the
old rules was opened for two years and a judicial decision restored some eliminated benefits.
vi.  The increase in financing requirements is expected to be short-lived, however, and the
Government expects to return the fiscal deficit to its pre-reform levels (2 percent of GDP) by
2002. To help finance the transition the Government initially required the new pension funds to
invest up to US$180 million a year in Treasury bonds with 10- to 15-year maturity. The
disadvantage to this requirement is that it concentrates the AFPs' portfolios, thereby hindering
the development of Bolivian capital markets. Therefore, the new Government has subsequently
lowered this requirement to US$135 million in 1998 and US$80 million in 1999.
vii. Pension Superintendency. The Pension Law also created a regulatory system for the
financial sector called Sistema de Regulacion Financiero (SIREFI). In 1997, SIREFI consisted
of four sectoral supervisory agencies (Banking, Pensions, Insurance, and Capital Markets) and a
second-tier supervisory agency, called the General Superintendecy, which had the role of an
appeals instance and a supervisory agency over each of the aforementioned agencies. The new
Superintendency of Pensions was set up and had started operations before the new pension
system was launched in May 1997.  The Pension Law replaced almost all the existing
institutions of the pension system with the new superintendency. Only an agency to calculate
and pay pension rights accrued under the old system remained.
viii. When the Law on Participation and Popular Credit (PCP) was passed in July of 1998, the
General Superintendency was replaced with the Superintendencia de Recursos Jer6rquicos (SRJ)
which assumed only the role of an instance of appeals-thereby eliminating the function of
supervision. This Law also merged the supervisory agencies of Pension, Insurance and Capital



iv
Markets under one umbrella Superintendency (SPVS). Although the changes in the supervision
structure can be justified with sound arguments, there were accusations that the changes were
triggered by the possibility to replace the existing supervisors.
ix. Capitalization. An important link of the capitalization program with the pension reform
was the transfer of the capitalized shares to the new pension system. The first step in this
process was the transfer of capitalized shares to a trustee selected through an international
bidding process even before the enterprises were capitalized. This step has been credited with
facilitating the capitalization process and arguably increased the total amount of resources
received. After the enactment of the pension law the shares were transferred to a custodian and
put under the management of the two selected AFPs.
x.   Capital Markets. The process of strengthening capital markets advanced only slowly
until July, 1998, when the Popular Participation and Credit Law (PCP) and the Securities Law were
approved. The objective of these laws was to provide a set of regulations to complement
operating norms to further develop Bolivian capital markets. The PCP created the Comite de
Normas Financieras Prudenciales (CONFIP) with the objective of coordinating and approving
regulations in the capital and financial sector proposed by the sector superintendencies. The
CONFIP has four members: the President of the Central Bank, the superintendants of SBEF and
Pensions, Securities, and Insurance Supervisory Agency (SPVS), and the Vice-Minister of Financial
Affairs of the Ministry of Finance.
xi.  A noteworthy provision in the Securities Law were the norms creating the Registro del
Mercado de Valores (RMV), for effectively registering all financial market participants and
securities transactions. The RMV will play a crucial role in providing information and
promoting transparency to the public as the capital markets develop further.
xii. Banking. The project supported the continued strengthening of the SBEF and the
resolution of the 1996 banking crisis. Support for the resolution of the banking crisis was
through assistance to design and implement banking strengthening plans and to attract foreign
capital. Only one of the affected banks required a second intervention. In 1998, as part of the
PCP, the Government of Bolivia passed a series of regulations and statutory requirements that
have significantly improved the solvency and efficiency as well as further strengthened the
banking system in Bolivia. These regulations have: (i) increased the capital and reserve
requirements for banks above the Base Criteria; (ii) increased the reserve requirements for
delinquent loans; and designed new regulations for (iii) micro-credit operations, (iv)
subordinated debt, (v) the evaluation of loan portfolios and (vi) consumer credit operations. The
Government of Bolivia also has plans to create a failure resolution institution (a Deposit
Guarantee Fund-DGF) to protect depositors from troubled or failing financial intermediaries.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
xiii. Change in Government: The Project Implementation Unit (PIU), which was originally
based in the Ministry of Capitalization (MOC), faced many challenges towards the end of the
previous Government. In May of 1997, the Government proceeded to close the MOC closure
and the Unit was unable to carry out the project's activities for approximately eight months while



v
the old Government ended and the new one took power, until a decision was made to move the
PIU to the General Superintendency of SIREFI. When the Law on PCP was passed in July of
1998, the unit was moved once again to be administered under the new supervision appeals
instance (SRJ). This not only complicated budgetary execution, but also fostered unrest among
the PIUs staff members.
xiv. Bonosol: When the new Pension Law closed the old pension system and established a new
one based on individual capitalization accounts, it also established an universal old age benefit,
called "Bonosol," financed by the shares of capitalized enterprises. The problems faced in the
execution of the Bonosol reflected a two-pronged issue: on the one hand, the program was
launched prematurely and based on assumptions that could be optimistic, thus creating
complications and shortfalls that endangered the future of the program. On the other hand,
launching it shortly before general elections, opened up the program to accusations of political
manipulation. During the first year of implementation the Bonosol program faced some
problems, including: (i) the accumulated dividends were not enough to cover required payments
and the AFPs had to borrow funds; (ii) shares of capitalized enterprises can only be sold on
public markets, but since none was yet registered in a stock exchange, shares could not be
divested and the portfolio was not diversified or liquid; (iii) for the same reason the value of the
portfolio was uncertain and also the value of a sustainable annuity; and (iv) fraud in the
collection of the Bonosol was apparently widespread due in part to counterfeit identity cards and
multiple birth certificates. The combination of the problems, forced the AFPs to secure bridge
financing from a private financial institution to cover the shortfall. In January 10, 1998, the
AFPs announced that they would not be able to service payments on Bonosol out of dividend
income. The new Government suspended the program and later introduced a new initiative in the
PCP, known as "Bolivida ".
xv. Bolivida. The new Bolivida system allocates 70 percent of the capitalization funds to
mutual fund shares (Acciones Populares), ownership of which will be given to all Bolivians aged
21 through 49 in 1995. Share titles will be freely transferable, and may be used as collateral for
credit. The remaining 30 percent of the capitalization funds will finance an annuity for those
Bolivians aged 50 and over in 1995 once they reach the age of 65 years. While this gives most
Bolivians earlier access to the benefits of capitalization, the administration of the Popular Shares
will be complicated, carry a number of risks, and increased supervision costs will accordingly
absorb a larger portion of the funds.
PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY
xvi. The sustainability of the pension reform program appears solidly grounded. In spite of the
problems surrounding the BONOSOL, the system of individual pension accounts continues to
grow beyond the envisaged targets and the higher number of members tends to ensure its
sustainability by increasing the political cost of interfering with the system. It is also remarkable
that the last three Governments in Bolivia have favored a similar new pension system. Although
it has been difficult to restore confidence in an economy that has traditionally been characterized
by hyper-inflation, weak institutional capacity, and plagued by delays and shortcomings in the
extent of its structural reforms, the Governrments efforts with regard to the financial sector have
stabilized it. Improvements in the operations of the pension system, insurance, and capital



vi
markets have begun to gain public support, which is encouraging their long-term viability. The
self-funding mechanisms in each of the superintendencies will motivate sustainability as the
recipients of such regulation will exercise pressure for responsive and cost-effective services.
Essentially, the establishment of new pensions system should encourage accumulation of a pool
of long term domestic savings, and further the development of a viable domestic capital market.
xvii. Sustaining the institutional reforms will present also a challenge. Weak institutional
capacity has constrained Bolivia's development for a long time, and will not be remedied in the
short-term. In the case of the regulatory agencies, they are breaking new ground in a country
with no tradition of independent regulation. Recognizing the importance of the judicial system
for private sector development, Bolivia has embarked on a program of judicial reform with the
support of IDA and other donors, but progress has been very slow.
xviii. The pension reform program has proved to be quite robust and has weathered some
important challenges. The requirement of investing up to US$180 million per year in treasury
bonds to help finance the transition is questionable. This requirement could lower the impact of
the pension reform through lower returns on worker's pension accounts and could discourage
wider affiliation. The requirement is not only an implicit tax on retirement savings of affiliated
workers but it also creates a bad precedent for mandatory uses of the portfolio. However, the
Government is aware of these issues and is lowering the requirement. In addition, the
Government should strive to develop an efficient bond market in which it could trade its bonds
and document a substantial part of its liabilities.
xix. Macroeconomic issues are of particular relevance for the sustainability of the reform. The
speed at which the pension reform was carried out was certainly in the benefit of the country.
However, this approach requires a substantial fiscal effort (in excess of 3% of GDP during 1998
and 1999) in the short term, an effort that was magnified by the decision of not using
privatization revenue to finance the transition. The new Government has been put under pressure
by those affected by the revenue and expenditure measures that became necessary during a time
that has subjected Bolivia to external economic shocks. The Government appears to have
withstood the worst of the problems and the reform program is continuing.
xx. Due to inadequate legislation and regulation of the securities market, AFPs have faced
substantial constraints to trade the capitalized shares, mostly because the shares were not readily
transferable into a diversified portfolio or considered liquid assets. These problems will be
addressed as the new regulatory framework for the securities market advances and is put to
practice, but currently there continues to be a lack of adequate clearing and settlement
arrangements, as well as an adequate way to assess the quality of individual debt obligations or
the credit standing of the issuers. It will also be imperative that clear rules are established well in
advance of the end of the exclusivity period in May 2002, with regard to exactly how the
opening of the pension market will be accomplished.
xxi. For the implementation of the benefits revised by the PCP, a public information effort will
need to be launched so as to explain clearly the benefits of mutual fund participation to a
population that has very little experience with paper assets. The distribution of these two pension



vii
benefits will not begin until a planned national identification register is completed -- which is not
envisaged before end 2000.
xxii. As part of the pension reform, and with the objective of increasing management efficiency,
the Government plans to turn over death, disability and workers' compensation coverage to the
private sector. In fact, the premiums are already being collected by the AFPs, with the intention
that they will transfer the accumulated reserves for these insurance to qualified private sector
insurance companies. Selection and transfer have been delayed, however, by the weakness of
the regulatory and supervisory framework for insurance companies. Ongoing Bank operations,
supported by an adjustment loan, will include strengthening the SPVS, by including components
to develop new procedures for analysis and financial reporting, by recruiting staff with the
necessary expertise, and by training to prepare staff to manage a genuine insurance supervisory
system.
xxiii. One of the major challenges the Government faces in strengthening the legal, regulatory
and supervisory framework for the development of financial markets, is the lack of qualified
financial sector expertise caused by budgetary constraints. While entry level positions are paid
with comparable rates to the private sector, the supervisory agencies find it more difficult to find
resources to cover the salaries of more experienced staff. It may be important to assess which
types of salary levels should be applied to the supervisory agencies. A lifting of this restrictions
may strengthen the capacity of each of the regulatory and supervisory agencies in the medium
and long-term. The SPVS would especially benefit from this reform as the capital markets
further develop and the need for cutting-edge expertise becomes even more essential for the
sustainability of the sector.
xxiv. Overall, IDA performance was satisfactory. The program was well prepared, with sound
emphasis on regulatory reform using key lessons learned from other Latin American pension
reform programs. Identification, preparation and appraisal work proved satisfactory; supervision
and support to these reforms has continued with the implementation of two new credits designed
to further strengthen the financial sector, including pension and insurance sectors, as well as
support to the legal, regulatory and supervisory frameworks for the emergence of a productive
and transparent financial market.
xxv. The overall performance of the borrower was satisfactory and two different
governments have demonstrated a strong commitment to further strengthening the institutional
and legal reforms and preserving the continuity of financial market deepening. Collaboration
with the Bank Group was satisfactory, and an effective dialogue during supervision between IDA
staff and Borrower contributed to the timely resolution of most problems. It is noteworthy that
the good performance of the borrower was maintained across a change in government.
xxvi. The project outcome is rated satisfactory. The objectives of strengthening the financial
markets and reforming the pension system, through a combination of policy and regulatory
reforms, as well as support toward capacity building of the various supervisory agencies
involved, were achieved. It will be important to continue to provide technical assistance and
support where applicable to preserve the measures taken by the two overlapping administrations.
There has been a dramatic reform of the country's contractual savings system, bolder than



viii
reform efforts of higher-income countries with more developed infrastructures. Due to the fact
that these reforms will continue to target institutional-building measures, the supervisory
agencies will slowly graduate from needed technical assistance.
xxvii. Future Program The future of this operation is favorable. As indicated the reforms have
proved to be robust and sustainable. However, further institutional strengthening will be
required and to fully reap the benefits of the reforms already undertaken, the pace of
complementary and new reforms has to continue to be quite rapid. IDA is supporting further
reforms to improve institutional capacity.
xxviii.    Key Lessons. Several lessons can be derived from the implementation of this
project and from the major institutional reforms that took place between 1995-1998.
. It is not enough to pass legislation. To develop an enabling environment for the
emergence of financial sector deepening, it is also necessary to focus a great deal of
attention on strengthening the awareness of the public with regard to the reforms via a
public information campaign.
* The success of the Financial Markets and Pension Reform had a great deal to do with the
two Governments full commitment to the needed reform at the highest levels. Again,
ownership played an important role in making this a success.
*  The interplay between technical assistance and adjustment lending has proved useful and
is being replicated in the Regulatory Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance
Credit (RPTAC) and the Regulatory Reform and Privatization Adjustment Credit
(RPAC). Providing technical assistance well in advance of the project reform date
provides continuity to preserve the momentum of the reform.
* It is imperative that the transition period does not drag on for too long, and that those
final adjustments are made in order to move forward. When implementing a gradualist
approach to reform, it is also necessary to keep all active parties concerned abreast of
each change regardless of its impact.
.  Continued financial support for the institutional capacity building is a long term
commitment. However, strengthening and capacity building within the Supervisory
Agencies is key to their sustainability, and allows for a decrease of dependence on
multilateral aid.
* Completely closing the old pension system at the start of the new pension system gives a
clear signal about the commitment and the performance of the reform, simplifies the
process of reform, supervision and management, reduces the compliance cost for
enterprises, and is equitable among all sectors of the working population.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
FINANCIAL MARKETS AND PENSION REFORM
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 2789-BO)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.   Achieving sustainable growth has been a key objective of the Bolivian government since
1985.  Successive governments have engaged in structural reforns, which have reduced
economic distortions and a strong public sector presence in the economy. As a result of its
market-oriented, open economic policies with regard to foreign trade and investment, Bolivia has
experienced stronger growth over the past five years. One of the many steps taken by the
Government to improve Bolivia's economic viability was the launching of the program to
capitalize and privatize state-owned enterprises. On March 21, 1994, the Bolivian Congress
approved the Capitalization Law, which allowed the Government to create new mixed capital
corporations with the assets of the state companies. This reform was aimed at opening key,
formerly State controlled, growth sectors to domestic and foreign private investment and
strategic management. The capitalization program was also tied to an ambitious reform of the
social security system. In 1996, the government passed a new Pensions Law.
2.   Since 1987, the government took significant measures to improve the regulatory and
supervisory framework of the financial sector. In April 1993, a revised Banking law was passed,
which established minimum loan classification and arrears standards, provisioning guidelines,
loan concentration limits, limits on related party lending, maximum leverage, and minimum
capital requirements. With the introduction of the Capitalization Program, as well as the passing
of new pension and securities legislation, there was a greater need to upgrade the Supervising
Agency of Banks to ensure adequate supervision of the rapidly evolving financial sector. In
1998, financial sector legislation was strengthened by the PCP Law and a new Securities Law
aimed to deepen capital markets in Bolivia.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
3.   The project's main objectives were to develop the regulations, norms, institution-building
measures, and information systems connected with the financial sector components of the
Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit (CPAC, 2761-BO), and to establish the institutional
framework and capacity for pension funds operation and regulation, as well as, the regulation
and operating norms of the securities markets and strong banking regulation and supervision. By
linking the regulatory and legal frameworks of the banking, securities, and pension sectors, the
project also aimed to address broader financial sector coordination issues.
4.   There were four major components, in the technical assistance project; (i) establish the
institutional structure and information systems necessary for regulation and supervision of the



2
proposed pension and capitalization distribution systems; (ii) improve securities regulation,
strengthen the institutional capacity of the Supervisory Agency of Securities, and improve
information systems to regulate market activity; (iii) establish a transparent and efficient process
for the distribution of capitalized shares including trustee and international bidding
arrangements; (iv) continue the institutional strengthening of the Supervisory Agency of Banks.
5.  These objectives were consistent with the Government's overall policies of promoting
private sector development by development of financial markets and revamping the pension
system. They were also in line with the Bank's country and sector strategies.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
6.  The program's objectives were  successfully  attained, although  the program's
comprehensive approach resulted in complex execution and supervision.
7.  Pension Reform. Before the Pension reforms took place, Bolivia's social security system
was a defined benefit system providing benefits for retirement, survivorship and disability
pensions, and medical insurance. Contributors accounted for approximately 22 percent of the
urban economically active population. Of the 304,000 contributors to the system and 114,000
pensioneers, about 65 percent were public sector employees. Mandatory pension insurance
operated through: (i) a national fund that covered basic pensions (FOPEBA); (ii) 24
complementary funds (FCs) organized by sector; (iii) three insurance schemes that covered
health and pensions for bank employees, police and military; (iv) eight pension schemes for
university employees. The supervision of the system was provided by the Instituto Nacional de
Seguros de Pensiones.
8.  The Pensions Law, approved in November 1996, provided the legal basis for an ambitious
reform of Bolivia's pension and social insurance systems. The initial design of the reform, was
to introduce a privately managed defined-contribution system to work alongside the publicly
managed defined-benefit fund (FOPEBA) and its complementary funds (FONCOMs), which
were to be overhauled. The final reform was much bolder; Bolivia became the first country in
the region to close down its pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) system immediately. By bringing the
failing system to an immediate end, Bolivia has spared itself from what would have been a
significant and growing burden on the Treasury. The pension reform was also made much
simpler, all the existing funds were closed and there was no need to keep and develop existing
supervisory or administrative institutions like INASEP or FOPEBA. In the short term, however,
there are important financing requirements arising from the reform, as contributions to the old
system have ceased, but its liabilities remain with the Government, which has assumed the
obligations not only of the FOPEBA but also of the complementary funds.
9.  Under the terms of the Pensions Law, the Government will pay the pensions of those
already retired under the old system, and will also offer compensation for past contributions of
active workers. To limit and defer the fiscal cost, compensation will be paid only upon
retirement and will be monthly, thereby smoothing the outflows and pushing them back in time.
An increase in the retirement age (to 65 from 50 for women and 55 for men) also helps to reduce
costs, although the new Government permitted anyone who would have qualified for retirement



3
by May 1999 to opt for retirement under the old system, an offer which, not surprisingly, has
proved popular and has increased the financing requirements.  In 1997, the financing
requirements of the reform came to 2.5 percent of GDP, but they rise to between 3 and 4 percent
in 1998-99, in part as a result of a Supreme Court decision restoring certain eliminated benefits,
underestimation of the liabilities arising from the old pension system, and also because of the
introduction of the grand-fathering clause. To help finance the costs, during 1997-2002, the
Government initially required the new pension funds to invest up to US$180 million a year in
Treasury bonds with 10- to 15-year maturity (interest rate is currently 8%). This facilitates the
financing for the Government but it also has the disadvantage, however, of concentrating the
AFPs' portfolios, although proper diversification will in fact remain difficult until Bolivian
capital markets develop further. To allow for diversification, the Pension Law specifies that the
maximum limit on foreign securities holdings, to be determined by the Board of the Central
Bank, will be no less than 10% and no more than 50% and solely in instruments listed in the
New York Stock Exchange and London Stock Exchange qualify.
10. Two private administrators (AFPs) were chosen for the new pension funds through
international competitive bidding (ICB) with great care taken to ensure transparency in selection.
Selection was based on the fees charged to manage the accounts subject to minimum service
criteria. The ICB produced very low bids, giving Bolivia by far the lowest fee structure in the
region. This was possible partly because the closure of the old system provided the AFPs with
an instant client base instead of involving them in the costs of building up contributions
gradually. It also was made possible because the capitalization funds, with an estimated value of
US$1.6 billion, were handed over to the AFPs for management. As a result, in Latin America,
relative to GDP, only Chile, which reformed its pension system some sixteen years earlier, has
more funds under management. In addition, the two AFPs were granted an exclusivity period of
five years, which by eliminating marketing costs also contributes to the low fee structure. When
the sector is opened to full competition in 2002, transfers between AFPs will be limited to one
per year, but it remains to be seen whether fees will remain low. However, some features of the
legislation could enhance competition and keep fees low. The absence of a minimum return
guarantee will open a new front for competition that has been absent in pension reforms in other
countries. This feature together with a portfolio regulation that gives much more room for the
pension manager to set up a portfolio than in other countries, will allow the manager to take
decisions that reflect more closely its client needs.
11. A noteworthy feature of the new system is its universality. On a voluntary basis, it
includes the self-employed, which were excluded from the old system. It also encompasses the
military, which in other countries have insisted on remaining under a special regime. This
universality is in sharp contrast to the many inexplicable divergences of the old system, and
promotes equality while making the system easier both to use and to administer. The reform also
aims to increase the system's coverage, since the FOPEBA and FONCOMs reached only 314,000
persons or about 12% of the labor force. The AFPs have been set annual affiliation targets, the
first of which has been met, with some 383,000 affiliates (a 22% increase) signed up by mid-
1998, including more than 3,300 self-employed workers. The target for 2002 is 800,000
affiliates, based on attracting the half-million workers of registered companies who were not
contributing to the old system. The changes done through the new Law on PCP have left these
features unchanged.



4
12. Distribution of Benefits of Capitalization. An important link of the capitalization program
with the pension reform was the transfer of the capitalized shares to the new pension system.
The first step in this process was the transfer of capitalized shares to a trustee selected through an
international bidding process even before the enterprises were capitalized. This step has been
credited with facilitating the capitalization process and arguably increased the total amount of
resources received. After the enactment of the pension law the shares were transferred to a
custodian and put under the management of the two selected AFPs. Probably the most important
way that capitalization differed from traditional privatization was that it generated no revenues
for the Treasury but attracted substantial new foreign investment into the country and priority
sectors. Bolivia chose to give directly to its adult population the benefits of capitalization, the 50
percent ownership of the capitalized companies, rather than rely on the public sector to spend on
behalf of its citizens. After considering various options for distribution, the Government decided
to grant the benefit in the form of an annuity paid upon retirement, the Bonosol. The first
annuity of US$248 (28 percent of per capita GDP) was distributed in 1997 to some 364,000
Bolivians aged 65 and older.
13. The advantages of this method of distribution included its universality that replaced the
need to include minimum pension guarantees in the new pension system, thus, eliminating a
contingent liability existing in most pension systems. Also, administrative costs were kept low
because the Bonosol did not require management of individual accounts; the AFPs required fees
of only 22 basis points on funds under management. For the designers of the program, another
advantage of the Bonosol was that it favored the old, those whose taxes had supported the SOEs
longest. The Bonosol would in effect have acted as a minimum pension until about 2040, but
with the advantage of being universal, and therefore progressive compared to the usual
guaranteed minimum pension schemes which generally fail to cover the poorest.
14. A disadvantage was that the deferral of distribution until age 65 made the Bonosol
regressive, in so far as the wealthier live longer. But the equal payment is clearly progressive,
and given poverty levels in Bolivia the majority of beneficiaries would have been poor. The
Bonosol was also criticized for limiting benefits to a defined population, those who had turned
21 by 1995, meaning that no one born after 1974 would benefit directly. Nevertheless,
household economics suggests that even this population would have benefited indirectly.
15. The merits of the Bonosol were however undermined by the manner of its implementation.
It was rushed, with payments beginning in May 1997, one month before general elections,, when
some of the basic elements needed for correct distribution were not yet in place. Most important
of these was the question of the shares' value. Until the shares begin trading, their exact value
remains uncertain, yet there is no time-bound requirement on the capitalized companies to list
them. Government efforts to register citizens were abandoned when it became clear that the
registration would not be completed before the elections. The result appears to have been
widespread fraud, as many more 65-year olds presented themselves than were expected.
Although regular recalculations of the annuity amount were envisaged to deal with these issues,
the extent of the uncertainty about basic parameters left the Bonosol open to challenge, as did its
timing, which politicized it.



5
16. To a large extent the problems of the Bonosol arose from the problems of setting up a
national registry of citizens (RUN) in a quick and satisfactory way. Repeated delays in
launching the work on the registry because of changes in approach, legal concerns about the
procedures, and competing sources of financing made it impossible to finish the work before the
change in Government. This difficulties led the previous Government to launch a revised
universal benefit based on assumptions about the performance of the capitalized shares, the
number of beneficiaries, and the institutional capacity of financial and capital markets.
17. The new Government has suspended the Bonosol, introducing a Property and Popular
Credit Law which allocates 70 percent of the capitalization funds to Acciones Populares
(Popular Shares), mutual fund shares, ownership of which will be given to all Bolivians aged 21
through 49 in 1995. Share titles will be freely transferable, and may be used as collateral for
credit. While this gives most Bolivians earlier access to the benefits of capitalization and
expands the pool of potential beneficiaries relative to the Bonosol, the administration of the
Popular Shares will be complicated, and costs will accordingly absorb a larger portion of the
funds. A public information effort will also be necessary to explain clearly the benefits of
mutual fund participation to a population with no paper assets culture. The remaining 30 percent
of the capitalization funds will finance an annuity for those Bolivians aged 50 and over in 1995,
a Bonosol-type benefit now called a Bolivida. The distribution of these two benefits will not
begin until an updated national identification register is completed, not envisaged before end
2000.
18.  With the pension reform, the need for reform of the insurance sector also became urgent.
The pension reform cedes responsibility for important social insurance programs to the private
sector. Premiums for death, disability and workers' compensation insurance are already being
collected by the AFPs, for transfer later to qualified insurance companies. The pension reform
also contemplates the purchase by retirees of annuity products, yet life insurance in Bolivia is
very underdeveloped, representing only 4 percent of total insurance premiums. A new Insurance
Law was approved in June 1998 and marks the first step towards proper development of the
sector. But regulations are still weak and the supervisory framework must be strengthened
before private insurers take over responsibility for social insurance programs.
19. Institutional Reform. The Pension Law also created a regulatory system for the financial
sector called Sistema de Regulacion Financiero (SIREFI). In 1997, SIREFI consisted of four
sectoral supervisory agencies (Banking, Pensions, Insurance, and Capital Markets) The new
Superintendency of Pensions was set up and had started operations before the new pension
system was launched in May 1997.   The Pension Law replaced almost all the existing
institutions of the pension system with the new superintendency. Only an agency to calculate
and pay pension rights accrued under the old system remained.
20. The Pension Law also created a second-tier supervisory agency, called the General
Superintendency. Between March 1997 and June 1998, the General Superintendent had the
responsibility of monitoring the performance of each sectoral agency and although the
Superintendent did not have direct authority over the other agencies he was an instance of appeal
for their decisions under an administrative law called, Recurso Jerarquico. This structure caused
some controversy and gave rise to a struggle for decision-making autonomy between the



6
respective sectoral regulatory agencies and the General Superintendency. When the PCP Law
was passed in July of 1998, the General Superintendency was replaced with the Superintendencia
de Recursos Jerarquicos (SRJ) to assume the role of court of appeals-thereby eliminating its
function of supervision. The PCP Law also stipulated that each of the supervisory agencies of
Pension, Insurance and Capital Markets merge together under one umbrella Superintendency
(SPVS). It is difficult to assess whether the restructuring of SIREFI was necessary on its own or
if removing the superintendents named by the previous government was an important factor.
21. Securities. With the recent approval of the Securities Law and the PCP Law, which were
both passed in 1998, Bolivia has begun to implement the regulations and operating norms
necessary to provide a sound basis for the development of capital markets. As mentioned, the
PCP Law merged each of the supervisory agencies of Pension, Insurance and Capital Markets
under one umbrella Superintendency. In practice, however, each of these agencies maintains
their same responsibilities. The Law also created the CONFIP (Comite de Normas Financieras
Prudenciales); a body in charge of coordinating the norms that should be applied to the financial
sector. The CONFIP has four members: the President of the Central Bank, the Superintendent of
Banks and Financial Institutions (SBEF), the Superintendent of Pensions, Capital Markets and
Insurance (SPVS) and the Vice-Minister of Financial Affairs of the Ministry of Finance.
22. Currently, the volume of trading in the securities markets has been growing steadily but
remains relatively small (US $3 billion in 1997) and trading is almost entirely in fixed-income
securities (bank term deposits and government paper). Only one capitalized company has listed
its shares so far. However, the Law and its regulations contributed to the strengthening of the
sector and have provided clear and transparent rules that provide the foundation to attract
institutional and international investors.
23. The Capital Markets Supervisory Agency continues to need strengthening in order to be
able to implement the laws and the regulations set forth. The agency may also be challenged by
greater price share volatility, greater opportunities for price manipulation, insider trading and a
shallow secondary market. Other issues include still inadequate custody, clearing and settlement
arrangements, as well as a lack of an adequate way to assess the quality of individual debt
obligations or credit standing of their issues. In response to the need for a credit rating agency,
Duff & Phelps and its Peruvian subsidiary, has applied to operate in La Paz, as it anticipates a
buying spree by AFPs in the near future. The firm has also been contracted to rate five
commercial banks in Bolivia this year. For further development of the sector, regulations to the
law are still needed in areas such as custody, clearing and settlement arrangements. There is also
need for a credit-rating service.
24. The supervisory agency of Capital Markets is currently implementing the regulations of
the Registro del Mercado de Valores (RMV). The RMV was created as part of the new
Securities Law with the objective of registering all financial market participants and securities
transactions. It also plays a crucial role in providing information and promoting transparency to
the public. After the Securities Law, the RMV, is the most important advance in strengthening
capital market development. This norm represents two important concepts: on the one hand it
provides authorization to financial institutions, traders and underwriters to operate in the
Bolivian market, and on the other, it provides a registration system. These two concepts are



7
intimately tied to each other-as financial market participants simply cannot exist without being
registered. All companies registered with the RMV must comply with the provisiori of quarterly
statements, audited financial statements, and any relevant information that may effect the
judicial, economic or financial situation of the company or of the company's securities in the
market place. This information would be accessible to the public. Another important aspect of
the RMV is the regulation of how privileged information should be handled.
25. Banking. Over the last few years, Bolivia has significantly improved the legal and
regulatory framework of the financial sector as well as the institutional quality of the SBEF. The
1993 promulgation of the Bank and Financial Institutions Law and the 1995 Central Bank of
Bolivia Law, have permitted banks to carry out activities such as maintaining accounts in foreign
currencies, issuing bonds and stocks, factoring, leasing, foreign currency hedging and
administering mutual funds, under a clearly defined regulatory framework. These structural and
policy changes made the formation of a liberalized financial market in Bolivia possible;
characteristics included the liberalization of interest rates, the elimination of credit controls and a
drastic reduction of direct intervention by the state in financial intermediation. This environment
has contributed to the rapid expansion of the financial sector, as financial intermediation has
grown from 21.6% of GDP in 1990 to 43.4% in 1997, and the deposit base of banks grew at an
annual average of 50% in real terms.
26. The quality of supervision in Bolivia was notably enhanced during this period. The
supervisory agency (which separated from the Central Bank in late 1987) raised the skill level of
its staff through intensive training and better human resource management policies; introduced
improvements in off-site and on-site supervision (although the latter has remained focused on
assessing credit risk); developed better data collection and reporting systems (including the
establishment of an electronic debtor information network shared with an increasing number of
financial institutions); and protected its independence in the face of harsh criticism mobilized in
Congress and the Judiciary by certain lobbies of banks under liquidation.
27. Despite the improvements in banking supervision, this growth was not accompanied by an
equivalent growth in financial institutions' capital base. Lending was overambitious, carried out
without the necessary prudence and diligence. The result has been periodic and serious crises of
confidence in the sector. While the authorities have been unable to prevent episodes of
deterioration of confidence in the banking system, cumbersome operational and legal
proceedings have prevented the authorities from being able to deal effectively with troubled
banks, i.e., managing their rehabilitation or exit once they have become insolvent
28. Since 1994, the Government has taken measures to deal with troubled or failing financial
intermediaries in an orderly, fast, non-destabilizing manner. Weakness that existed in the
banking system called for the Government to intervene and liquidate two troubled banks in late
1994, Bancosur and Banco de Cochabamba, offering virtually full protection to depositors and
other creditors. These two banks and the serious problems faced in 1995 by at least another five
banks, including the then second largest bank, Banco Boliviano Americano (BBA), led to the
creation (through Supreme Decree) of the Fondo de Desarollo del Sistema Financiero y Apoyo al
Sector Productivo (FONDESIF) which was authorized to provide assistance to financial



8
intermediaries subject to, among other things, the increase of capital by old or new owners pari
passu with the capital injected by FONDESIF. Despite having been a useful tool within the
fragile circumstances, FONDESIF had some basic limitations and was transitional in nature, so
that its authority to engage in operations to assist undercapitalized or structurally illiquid banks
expired at the end of March 1998. The decision of authorities to liquidate the bank BIDESA in
December of 1997 and the recent liquidation of BBA this month, has again pushed to the surface
the weakness and vulnerability of the Bolivian Banking system to sudden episodes of confidence
erosion.
29. When the General Superintendency of SIREFI was replaced by the Superintendency of
Recursos Jeraquicos, SBEF was empowered to draft and implement regulations. In 1998, SBEF
passed a series of regulations and statutory requirements that has significantly improved the
solvency and efficiency and further strengthened the banking system  in Bolivia.  These
regulations have: (i) increased the capital and reserve requirements for banks; (ii) increased the
reserve requirements for the provision of delinquent loans; and designed new regulations for (iii)
microcredit operations, (iv) subordinated debt, (v) the evaluation of loan portfolios and (vi)
consumer credit operations. With regard to the Banking sector, Bolivia has significantly
improved the legal and regulatory framework of the financial sector as well as the institutional
quality of the Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions (SBEF). These improvements
have placed it closer to international best practices. These changes have been reflected in new
regulations directed at banks and the financial institutions which increased reserves, better
regulated the guarantees for loans, the evaluation and qualification of portfolio and others (see
table A). The SBEF also has plans to create a failure resolution institution (a Deposit Guarantee
Fund-DGF) to protect depositors from troubled or failing financial intermediaries.
30. The SBEF created a Financial Information System (SIF) with the purpose of improving the
flow of information between itself and financial institutions. With this new system, the financial
institutions send information on a daily basis electronically making it possible for the
Superintendecy to have the most up-to-date information possible. In addition the SBEF is
drafting a regulation for the creation of rating agencies. Measures have also been implemented
to ensure fully qualified staff trained in commercial risk assessment, valuation techniques,
interest rate and liquidity risk assessment.



9
Table A: Significant changes in norms forfinancial prudence
*  In accordance with the Resolution of the BCB, the SBEF
approved the Reglamento de Control del Encaje Legal
Resolution. This substituted the minimum and additional
Reglamento de Control del Encaje Legal            reserve requirements for reserve requirements of cash and
securities; and provided new prudential guidelines to
existing Savings and Loans Funds.
*  In order to implement a new information system for the
Central Credit Bureau (SIRC), Resolution SB/061/98 of
June 1998, will be enforced to monitor services provided;
Regulation Regarding Central Credit Bureau     *  SIRC will monitor the electronic transfers of information
to financial entities/investors, validate data of given entity,
consolidate information into one database, generate
internal products and provide access via Internet to clients.
*  Regarding non-banking financial institutions, the SBEF
approved regulations for micro-credit operations taking
Regulation of adequately guaranteed micro-credit  into account characteristics and conditions of loans that are
operations                                        inherent to micro enterprise in order to define and
differentiate micro-credit from other types of transactions.
*  SBEF has created a resolution that regulates the use of
Regulation on the use of subordinated obligations as  subordinated obligations as part of capital of banks and
part of the capital of banks and other financial  financial institutions.
entities
*  SBEF approved and applied the regulation for the
Regulation for the evaluation and qualification of  evaluation and qualification of loan portfolio in view of
loan portfolio                                    the fact that loan portfolios are the most important assets
that fmancial institutions have and their evaluation and
qualification constitutes main indicators of solvency,
income generating potential and quality of portfolio
administration.
*  Incorporates the evaluation of the repayment capacity of
the debtors instead of the guarantees; establishes the
classification by type of loan/credit instead of
classification by amount; establishes the constitution of
reserves on the basis of the balance of the debt without
taking into account the guarantees and it gives the
financial institutions up to the year 2003 to cover the
deficits in reserves for credit.
Regulation for consumer credit operations      *  In order to reduce the global and individual risk for
adequately guaranteed                             financial institutions associated with consumer credit, the
SBEF issued a resolution that regulates consumer credit
operations
Regulation for mergers of cooperatives, and savings  *  Within the process of granting operating licenses to Saving
and loans institutions                            and Loan Cooperatives, the SBEF approved a regulation
governing the merger of these entities with the objective to
harmonize the present norms on this subject in the
commercial code.



10
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
31. Ownership of the Reform. Implementation of major policy and institutional reform was
possible in Bolivia because there was full ownership by the Government of the reform program -
- even for politically difficult aspects of the capitalization program and the reform of the pension
system.
32. The Project Implementation Unit, which was originally based out of the Ministry of
Capitalization (MOC), faced many challenges towards the end of the previous Government. In
May of 1997, the Government proceeded to close the MOC and the Unit was unable to carry out
the project's activities fdr approximately eight months while the old Government ended and the
new one took power, until a decision was made to move the PIU to the General Superintendency
of SIREFI. When the PCP Law passed in July of 1998, the General Superintendency was
transformed into the Superintendecy of Recursos Jerarquicos, and the Implementation Unit was
moved once again. This caused complications in budgetary execution and further threatened
project execution.
33. Changes in the final design of the pension reform between the time the project was
approved and passage of the new Pension Law made a number of the project activities
redundant. For example development of norms for existing funds, and all the activities related to
the institutional development of INASEP and FOPEBA for a total credit of over US$1 million
were not required anymore. Another important component of the project that didn't require IDA
financing was the acceleration of the Registry System that obtained concessional financing from
other international agencies and a bilateral donor. These reductions in project expenditures were
partially compensated by higher than estimated expenditures for the international bidding
process for the trustee and the pension fund managers.
34. Change of Government. The transition from the old pension and social insurance system
to the new privately managed system which included the management and distribution of
capitalization shares, did face some challenges in implementation, however.  The two
overlapping administrations disagreed upon the type of distribution method to use (Bonosol vs.
Bolivida) and have used these programs as more political platforms. With regard to the Bonosol
program, the government rushed to implement the method of distribution only a month before
holding general elections.
E. PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY
35. The sustainability of the program components appears solidly grounded. Although it has
been difficult to restore confidence in an economy that has suffered hyper-inflation in the past
and delays and shortcomings in the extent of structural reforms, as well as very weak
institutional capacity, which has constrained private sector development, the recent reforms to
the financial sector have stabilized the system as a whole and improvements in the operations of
the pension system, insurance, and capital market have begun to gain public support encouraging
their long-term viability.
36. The pension reform program has proved to be quite robust and has weathered some
important challenges. The establishment of new pensions system should encourage a progressive



11
increase in the domestic savings rate from an extremely low base, and the development of a
domestic capital market.
37. Macroeconomic issues are of particular relevance for the sustainability of the reform. The
speed at which the pension reform was carried out was certainly in the benefit of the country.
However, this approach requires a substantial fiscal effort (in excess of 3% of GDP during 1998
and 1999) in the short term, an effort that was magnified by the decision of not using
privatization revenue to finance the transition. The new Government has been put under pressure
by those affected by the revenue and expenditure measures that became necessary during a time
that has subjected Bolivia to external economic shocks. The Government appears to have
withstood the worst of the problems and the reform program is continuing.
38. The requirement of investing a minimum amount per year in treasury bonds to help finance
the transition is questionable. This requirement could lower the impact of the pension reform
through lower returns on worker's pension accounts and could discourage affiliation. The
requirement is not only an implicit tax on retirement savings of affiliated workers but it also
creates a bad precedent for mandatory uses of the portfolio. If the removal of this requirement is
not achievable in the near term because of financial concerns, the government should strive to
develop an efficient bond market in which it could trade its bonds and document a substantial
part of its liabilities. Due to inadequate legislation and regulation of securities market, AFPs
have faced substantial constraints to trade the capitalized shares, mostly because the shares were
not readily transferable into a diversified portfolio or considered liquid assets. These problems
will be addressed as the new regulatory framework for the securities market advances and is put
to practice, but currently there continues to be inadequate custody, clearing and settlement
arrangements, as well as a lack of an adequate way to assess the quality of individual debt
obligations or credit standing of their issuers. It will also be imperative that clear rules are
established well in advance of the end of the exclusivity period in May 2002, with regard to
exactly how the opening of the pension market will be accomplished.
39. As part of the pension reform initiatives and with the objective of increasing management
efficiency, the Government plans to turn over important insurance programs to the private sector.
In fact, the premiums for death, disability and workers' compensation coverage are already being
collected by the AFPs, with the intention that they will transfer the premia for these types of
insurance to qualified private sector insurance companies. Selection and transfer have been
delayed, however, by the weakness of the regulatory and supervisory framework for insurance
companies. Future Bank operations will include strengthening the supervisory agency, including
components to develop new procedures for analysis and financial reporting, recruitment of staff
with the necessary expertise, and program of training to prepare staff to manage a genuine
insurance supervisory system.
40. Regulations pertaining to the Capital Markets continue to need strengthening. Rules on
requirements for equity insurance, capital requirements for issuers, brokerage margin lending,
audit requirements for issuers, mutual fund regulations, rules for risk rating agencies, and
financial instruments and requirements derived from the capitalization and pension reform
process are essential to the sustainability of this sector and IDA support in this area is currently
being implemented.



12
41. Sustaining the institutional reforms will present more of a challenge. Weak institutional
capacity has constrained Bolivia's development for a long time, and will not be remedied in the
short-term. In the case of the regulatory agencies, they are breaking new ground in a country
with no tradition of independent regulation. Recognizing the importance of the judicial system
for private sector development, Bolivia has embarked on a program of judicial reform with the
support of IDA and other donors, but progress has been very slow.
42. One of the major challenges the Government faces in strengthening the legal, regulatory
and supervisory framework for the development of financial markets, is due in part to the lack of
qualified financial sector expertise caused by the restrictions in salary levels set by the Bolivian
budgetary authorities. A lifting of this restriction would strengthen the capacity of each of the
regulatory and supervisory agencies in the medium and long-term. The SPVS would especially
benefit from this reform as the capital markets further develop and the need for cutting-edge
expertise becomes even more essential for the sustainability of the sector.
43. The future of this operation is favorable. As indicated the reforms have proved to be
robust and sustainable. However, further institutional strengthening will be required to fully reap
the benefits of the reforms already undertaken. IDA is supporting further reforms to improve
institutional capacity.
F. IDA PERFORMANCE
44. Overall, IDA performance was satisfactory. The program was well prepared, with sound
emphasis on regulatory reform using key lessons leamed from other Latin American pension
reform programs. Identification, preparation and appraisal work proved satisfactory; supervision
and support to these reforms has continued with the implementation of two new credits designed
to further strengthen the financial sector, including pension and insurance sectors, as well as
support to the legal, regulatory and supervisory frameworks for the emergence of a productive
and transparent financial market.
45. At the identification stage, IDA's sector work correctly emphasized the need for in-depth
structural reform. The cost of this emphasis was that the project team had to become very
involved in the design of the reforms itself and this led to a project preparation that was very
long. Appraisal was well handled, with IDA staff correctly identifying the main risks. IDA's
appraisal of the complementary pension funds, however, was somewhat flawed. Staff should
have anticipated the eventual bailout and identified financing for such a scenario.  The
requirement in Bolivia that all external borrowing, even from IDA, has to be approved by
Congress resulted in a delay of over a year between Board approval of the project and its
effectiveness. The Government, because of the bad experience in the hydrocarbons sector, did
not want to discuss the project in Congress before the draft Pension Law had not been discussed
in Congress. The availability of PHRD and PPF funds allowed for continuation of some project
preparation activities during this time.  A lesson to be drawn from this experience is that



13
although IDA's technical assistance is much appreciated the timing of the project has to be
planned well in advance of the actual reform.
46. Supervision of the program was good and provided continuity across Governnents.
Progress was closely monitored and when regulatory reforms came into question, IDA was able
to explain and safeguard the reforms during a challenging time. IDA was not, however, able to
prevent the new Government from suspending the system for distributing the capitalization
benefits.
47. IDA showed that within the boundaries of the institution's procedures it was possible to
have enough flexibility to quickly adjust to changes in institutions and priorities. An example of
this was how from a minor component for public information and the consultation process the
project managed to provide significant support, although in hindsight still insufficient, in these
areas that proved crucial for the success of the reform.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
48. The overall performance of the borrower was satisfactory and two different governments
have demonstrated a strong commitment to further strengthening the institutional and legal
reforms and preserving the continuity of financial market deepening. Collaboration with the
Bank Group was satisfactory, and an effective dialogue during supervision between IDA staff
and Borrower contributed to the timely resolution of most problems. It is noteworthy that the
good performance of the borrower was maintained across a change in government.
49. It has to be emphasized that the last three Governments of Bolivia have supported what
proved quite an extraordinary pension reform. Bolivia's pension reform went far beyond
previous reform experiences and is being widely observed by other reforming countries
50. The most serious lapses in borrower performance came in: (i) the rushed introduction of
the Bonosol, the now suspended program of distribution; (ii) weakness in the communication
effort to explain the benefits of the reform; and (iii) instability and budgetary implications to the
Project Implementation Unit due to the fact that it was forced to relocate two times.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
51. The project outcome is rated satisfactory. The objectives of strengthening -the financial
markets and reforming the pension system, through a combination of policy and regulatory
reforms, as well as support toward capacity building of the various supervisory agencies
involved, were achieved. It will be important to continue to provide technical assistance and
support where applicable to preserve the measures taken by the two overlapping administrations.
There has been a dramatic reform of the countries contractual savings system, bolder than reform
efforts of higher-income countries with more developed infrastructures. Due to the fact that
these reforms will continue to target institutional-building measures, the supervisory agencies
will slowly graduate from needed technical assistance.



14
52. Impact on investment and growth of the financial markets and pension reforms are
expected to be substantial but can not be assessed because of the brief period of time since the
reforms have been passed. It is estimated that as a consequence of the pension reform private
savings would increase from 11.7% of GDP in 1997 to 12.8% of GDP in 1999. Pension fund
accumulation reached 1.8% of GDP in 1998. The availability of funds is expected to have a
positive impact on investment and growth.
Table B. Bolivia: Savings-Investment Balance 1995-99
Projection
1995 1996 1997 1998 1999
(Percent of GDP)
Investment               15.7 17.0 19.4 20.4 20.0
Non-financial public sector   8.2  8.0  6.9  6.5  6.5
Private Sector            7.4  9.0  12.5 13.8 13.5
Savings                  15.7 17.0 19.4 20.4 20.0
External Savings         5.0   5.1  7.5  7.5  5.7
National Savings         10.7  11.9 12.0 12.8 14.3
Public Sector          4.1   3.7  0.3  0.7  1.5
Nonpension            4.6   4.8  3.0  4.0  4.5
Pension           -0.6  -1.1 -2.7 -3.3 -3.0
Private Sector         6.6   8.3 11.7  12.1 12.8
Nonpension funds      6.6   8.7 10.5  10.3 11.0
Pension funds         0.0  -0.4  1.2  1.8  1.8
Sources: National Institute of Statistics and IMF estimates
53. The most common criticism of the pension reform is about the distributional effects of the
reform, that through individual accounts high-income workers gain at the expense of low-income
workers cannot be leveled in the Bolivian case. The design of the reform and its link to the
capitalization program is such that all adult Bolivians, as shareholders in the capitalized
companies, benefit directly and it is also a progressive benefit because poorer Bolivians benefits
are higher in proportion to their income. Of course, these benefits will only be enjoyed when
distribution, now suspended, gets underway again sometime after 2000. In addition, because of
the low coverage of the pension system and its mounting deficits a situation was arising that the
poorest workers, those not participating in the pension system, were paying through their



15
consumption taxes for the benefits of those covered by the system. The reform put an end to the
growth of this pension liability and a limit to the required transfers.
54. The individual capitalization side of the Pension Reform Law is not likely to have a strong
social impact, at least in the short run, but the foreseeable impacts are mixed. Since the country is
moving to a fully funded system, workers will now have a greater assurance that they will
receive their benefits upon retirement. However, since the State does not guarantee a minimum
pension under the individual capitalization pillar, nor does it require a minimum return on the
portfolios invested by the pension fund administrators, contributors will bear the risk on those
investments and therefore the amount of their pension is uncertain.
55. On the other hand, the new system opens the possibility to participate in a pension scheme
to independent workers, who are among the lowest income earners of society. Also, the new
system may reduce evasion by formal sector workers, whose employers would previously refuse
to inscribe them to avoid costs. Since these workers will now have their own accounts, it is
expected that they will have a greater incentive to demand participation, but this is by no means
certain. The more controversial issue about the social impact of the reform concerns the
"Bonosol." This benefit has both progressive and regressive features. Since the amount was fixed
in nominal terms, it represented a larger proportion of annual income for poor beneficiaries than
for rich ones. However, if the poor have a lower life expectancy than the rich do, the chances of
ever receiving this benefit are lower and the number of years they would receive the benefit are
also lower. Although it could be expect that this is the case, there is no data on life expectancy by
poverty strata.
56. Future Operation. The future of this operation is favorable. As indicated the reforms
have proved to be robust and sustainable. However, further institutional strengthening will be
required and to fully reap the benefits of the reforms already undertaken the pace of
complementary and new reforms has to continue to be quite rapid. IDA is supporting further
reforms to improve institutional capacity.
57. The Government intends to strengthen the regulatory framework, decrease the liabilities
incurred from the previous system, and improve the investment opportunities for pension funds.
The new reforms will: (i) issue additional regulations related to the PCP, including investment
rules, credit rating requirements, and market access regulations; (ii) liquidate the former
complementary pension funds and their assets to partially finance the cost of the pension reform.
The Government is planning to initiate the liquidation of thirty complementary pension funds in
the next 18 months; and (iii) strengthen the supervisory agency, including development of
operating procedures, training of staff, and improvement of information systems. To improve
investment of pension funds, the Government will provide incentives for a better diversification
of the pension fund portfolio through: (i) establishment of a transitory risk classification
commission as established in Art. 54 of the Pension Law; (ii) regulation of the variable annuity
pension scheme described in Art. 5 of the Pension Law (or establishment of satisfactory
alternative scheme); and allow for better portfolio diversification as soon as alternative funding
to finance the deficit becomes available.



16
58.  It is critical to develop the life insurance industry so as to provide annuity products
complementary to the pension reform process that has been carried out in the past few years.
Thus, the Government will adopt appropriate measures to support the constitution of insurance
companies that provide annuities and coverage of the professional and common risks established
by Arts.37 and 38 of the Pension Law. The Government plans to modernize insurance practices
through passage of regulation for the new Insurance Law, which will allow the full operation of
the disability and survivorship insurance (DSI) and support the life annuity pension mechanism.
Further, to strengthen the supervisory agency, the Government plans to: (i) develop new
procedures for analysis and financial reporting; (ii) recruit staff with the necessary expertise
(particularly actuarial skills); and (iii) train staff to manage a genuine insurance supervisory
system.
59. In support of the new Securities Law the Government intends to strengthen the supervisory
agency's rules and regulations, upgrade supervisory capacity, implement a staff training
program, and improve the computerization of the agency. The Government will also establish a
transitory risk classification commission to classify privately issued securities until private asset
classification agencies are in full operation in the country.
60. The immediate goals of the ongoing banking reform program are to: (i) clarify the
functions and roles of the banking regulatory and supervisory agencies; (ii) strengthen prudential
regulations and the capabilities and autonomy of the supervisory authorities; (iii) strengthen rules
regarding internal and external governance of financial institutions; (iv) develop a
comprehensive failure resolution framework; and (v) strengthen the regulation of savings and
loan institutions commensurate with that of banking institutions.
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
61. Several lessons can be derived from the implementation of this project and from the major
institutional reforns that took place between 1995-1998.
*  It is not enough to pass legislation. To develop an enabling environment for the
emergence of financial sector deepening, it is also necessary to focus a great deal of
attention on strengthening the awareness of the public with regard to the reforms via a
public information campaign.
*  The success of the Financial Markets and Pension Reform had a great deal to do with the
Government's full commitment to the needed reform at the highest levels. Again,
ownership played an important role in making this a success.
*  The interplay between technical assistance and adjustment lending has proved useful and
is being replicated in the Regulatory Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance
Credit (RPTAC) and the Regulatory Reform and Privatization Adjustment Credit
(RPAC). Providing technical assistance well in advance of the project reform date
provides continuity to preserve the momentum of the reform.



17
* It is imperative that the transition period does not drag on for too long, and that those
final adjustments are made in order to move forward. When implementing a gradualist
approach to reform, it is also necessary to keep all active parties concerned abreast of
each change regardless of its impact.
*  Continued financial support for the institutional capacity building is a long term
commitment. However, strengthening and capacity building within the Supervisory
Agencies is key to their sustainability and allow for a decrease of dependence on
multilateral aid.
* Completely closing the old pension system at the start of the new pension system gives a
clear signal about the commitment and the performance of the reform, simplifies the
process of reform, supervision and management, reduces the compliance cost for
enterprises, and is equitable among all sectors of the working population.



18
Statistical Tables
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions



19
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
(00            (V)              (V)               (V)
Macro Policies                      D              [l               0                 E
Sector Policies                    El              0                a                 O
Financial Objectives                 l             C1               O                 E
Institutional Development          [3              E                E                 E
Physical Objectives                 E              E                E                 El
Poverty Reduction                    l             EX               E                 E
Gender Issues                       E              El               0                 E
Other Social Objectives             E              El]              0                 0
Environmental Objectives            E              El               E                 I
Public Sector Management                           El               El                El
Private Sector Development          E                               El                El
Other (specify)                     E              E                E                 E
B. Project Sustainability             Likely                 Unlikely                  Uncertain
(./)                     (1)                       (V)
Highly
C. Bank Performance                    satisfactory         Satisfactory               Deficient
Identification                     EX                       E                         E
Preparation Assistance             IF]                      0                         0
Appraisal                           El                        l                       El
Supervision                         El                      El                        E
Highl
D. Borrower Performance                      satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient
(1')           (1)             (V)
Preparation                                  E                               l O
Implementation                               E              [El             0
Covenant Compliance                         1E              I3              E
Operation (if applicabie)                     l              El             0
Highly                                           Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome             satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
El)            IX]              El)               El)
z      21               [1                [1~~~~~i 



20
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title              Purpose                       Approved      Status
Preceding operations
1. Structural Adjustment Credit  Help to restructure financial sector, public   FY92  Closed
(2289-BO)                   enterprises and public investment.
2. Regulatory Reforn &      Support capitalization and help to establish   FY95  Closed
Capitalization T.A. (2647-BO)  regulatory framework in transport and
telecommunication sectors.
3. Judicial Reforrn (2705-BO)   Modernize justice administration focusing    FY95  Underway
on civil and commercial branches in order
to provide efficient and predictable
framework for enforcement of private
rights.
Following operations
I .Capitalization Program  Support to the legal and regulatory    FY95          Closed
Adjustment Credit (2761-BO)   framework to attract private investment and
support to the capitalization of large public
enterprises.
2. Hydrocarbons Sector      Support capitalization of YPFB and    FY96          Closed
Reformn & Capitalization T.A.   establishment of regulatory framework.
(2762-BO)
3.Regulatory Reform &       Support independence of regulatory    FY98          Underway
Privatization T.A. (3108-BO)   framework, stability of financial sector and
improve key infrastructure services.                            l
Support independence of regulatory    FY98          Underway
l 4. Regulatory Reform     framework, stability of financial sector and
Stru    Adjustment Credit   i
(3143-B0)                   ipoekyifatutr  evcs



21
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                 Date Planned             Date Actual/
l                    I.      Latest Estimate
Concept Review                                                         February 1994
Pre-appraisal                                    March 1994            May 1994
Decision Meeting                                                       September 1994
Appraisal                                        October 1994          October 1994
Negotiations                                     October 1995          October 1995
Board Presentation                               November 1995         November 1995
Signing                                          March 1996            March 28, 1996
Effectiveness                                    January 1996          January 14, 1997
Last Mission                                                           December 12, 1998
Next Mission                                                           March 29, 1999
Closing Date                                     June 30, 1998         December 31, 1998
Project Completion                               December, 1998        December 13, 1998
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ equivalent)
FY 96           FY 97       FY 98         FY 99
Appraisal Estimate                   4,900,000       7,451,881    8,426,000     8,426,000
Actual                                               6,188,498    6,688,704     7,621,233
Actual as % of Estimate                              83           79            90
Date of Final Disbursement                                                      04/01/99
Note: At Board approval of the Credit the SDR6.1 million were equivalent to about US$9 million. Currency
fluctuations reduced this amount to US$8.4 million.



22
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Key
Implementation               Estimated                            Actual
Indicators in SAR/
President's Report
1.Working
Superintendency of                    mid 1996                     Jan. 1997
Pensions
2. Transfer of                        mid 1996                       Jan. 1997
capitalized shares to                 md19                           a.19
AFP management
3. New securities law                 1996                          July 1998
and regulation
4. Efficient banking
supervision as                        1997                            1997
indicated by the                       9
resolution of problem
cases and timely action
on new problem cases
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
n.a.



23
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study             at Appraisal/Redefined           Status             Impact of Study
1. Licensing of AFPs    Ensure quality of managers    Completed            Selection of qualified
managers
2. Operational norms for    Ensure quality of service  Completed            Definition of service
AFPs                                                                        standards for AFP
contracts
3. Organizational       Establishment of viable     Completed               Superintendency
structure, TOR for key  supervisory agency                                  established and working
positions, and accounting
and financial control
system for Pension
Superintendency
4. Hardware, and software  Adequate information     Completed               Superintendencies of
specification for Pension    systems                                        Pensions and Banks
and Banks                                                                   have working
Superintendencies                                                           information system
5. Diagnostic of non-bank   Provide regulation for large    Completed       Regulations are in place
financial institutions  segment of financial sector                         and large number of
entities has been
formalized
6. Audit to              Establish asset liabilityR Itd*Gvrmnl
Complementary Pension    situation of the funds     Completed               Resulted in Government
6.Fundittssalsse                                                            deciding to close all of
Funds                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~them
7.Decisions in Designing                              lpee
7. Decisiof De          AFP search, evaluation, and    Completed            Improved commercial
the Structure of the
System                  structure                                           viability of system
8. Assessment of and    Diagnostic of the banking   Completed               Specific strengthening
Recommendations for the   system and action plan to                         plan for individual
Banking System, and     address issues                                      institutions and
Study of the Bolivian                                                      improved norms
Banking System
Diagnostic of the pension  Completed
9. Principales          system and identify issues                          Supported pension
Caracteristicas del                                                         reform effort
Sistema de Pensines



24
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)              Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local      Foreign      Total          Local     Foreign     Total
Item              Costs       Costs                      Costs      Costs
Refinancing of PPF   600,000   1,400,000    2,000,000    733,000    865,000    1,598,000
A. Ministry of    766,000      8,083,000    8,849,000    490,000    1,380,000   1,870,000
Capitalization
B. Pension Reform   4,397,000    1,655,000    6,052,000  2,560,000   1,960,000   4,520,000
D. Comision       276,000      1,116,000    1,392,000     178,000    280,000    458,000
Nacional de
Valores
F. Superintendency   785,000   1,951,000   2,736,000     495,000    1,850,000   2,345,000
of Banks
G. Min. of        264,000      16,000     280,000        266,000    54,000      320,000
Capitalization-
Project Unft
TOTAL             6,488,000    12,821,000   19,309,000  4722000   6,389,000   11,111,000
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)          Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Local      Foreign       Total       Local       Foreign      Total
Source               Costs       Costs                    Costs        Costs
Govermment of Bolivia  3,021,000    7,368,000  10,309,000   2,431,000    1,059,000  3,490,000
IDA                  3,547,000    5,453,000    9,000,000   2,291,00    5,330,000    7,621,000
TOTAL               6,488,000    12,821,000    19,309,000   4,722,000    6,389,000  11,111,000
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Quoting from the MOP
"Rate of Return:    The project's institution building features make it not amenable to the
calculation of rates of return."
Although most of the benefits are indirect, there are some indications of the substantial benefits of
the project in relation to its costs, including the following:
a) The resolution of the banking crisis that started end 1995 was estimated to cost about US$200
million, the actual cost, achieved in part through TA financed by the project, was about US$60
million;



25
b) the account management fees for the pension system are less than half of those of other
countries. This amounts to a net benefit of at least US$1.5 million a year for all workers
participating in the system;
c) the reduction in the net present value of the liabilities of the Government with the pension
system should be in excess of US$100 million; and
d) the approach of the project to use a large number of specific consultancies instead of a single
overall consultancy proved the most cost efficient approach. The changes in the design of the
reform, elimination of one major component of the project, changes in institutions, and long delays
in project activities because of the change in the location of the PIU would have resulted in
substantially larger problems and in increased cost if a different approach had been followed.



26
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Section  Covenant Present  Original  Revised                  Description of              Comments
type     status  fulfillment fulfilimen            Covenant
date     t date
Credit      4.01       1         C                            The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations,
resources, and expenditures of MOC in
respect of Parts A and B of the Project.
Credit      4.02       1         C                            The Borrower shall cause CNV and SBEF
under the CNV Subsidiary Agreement and
the SBEF Subsidiary Agreement, as the
case may be, to maintain records and
separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources, and
expenditures of CNV and SBEF in respect
of Parts C and D of the Project.
reC 1       .                                               under the CNV Subsidiary Agreementanddit  4.03  5  C  The Borrower shall cause CNV and SBEF
Credit  4.03  5  C                           ~~~~~~~~~under the CNV Su-bsidiary Agreement and
the SBEF Subsidiary Agreement, as the
case may be, to carry out their operations
and conduct their affairs in accordance
with sound technical, financial,
administrative and environmental practices
under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by staff
in adequate nurmbers.
Establish Superintendency of Pensions
Credit       Sch. 1,   3         CD                           with functions and responsibilities
3.(b)                                            satisfactory to the Association.
Credit       Sch. 1,   3         CD                           Establish legal framework for the securities
3.(c)                                            market satisfactory to the Association.
Sch. 1,                                          Legal frameworks for the insurance sector
Credit      3.(d)     3          CD                           and the Central Bank satisfactory to the
Association have been established.
Covenant types.
1. =  Accounts/audits                                8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from   9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                 10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds          11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                   allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing  12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                               regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                        13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



27
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
I           The project complied with all Operational Manual Statements



28
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                      Planned           Actual
Project Cycle                                                       I
Weeks  US$         Weeks   US$
Preparation to Appraisal           18                 31      96,000
Appraisal-Board                    10       27,000    37       117,000
Negotiations through Board Approval   4     20,000    4       20,000
Supervision                        52       150,000   54      147,000
Completion                         5        15,000            3,000
TOTAL                             89       212,000   126     383,000



29
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                     Specialized       Implemen-      Develop-
Stage of         Month/        of         Days in        Staff Skills       tation         ment          Types of
Project Cycle       Year       Persons       Field        Represented         Status       Objectives     Problems
Through Appraisal      4194        2           5             Financial and
Banking
Specialists
5/94       5           10            Financial,
Pension, Capital
markets, and
Banking
Specialists
Financial Analyst
Financial,
Pension, Insurance,
10/94      4           10            and Banking
Specialists
Appraisal through      2/95        4           12            Financial,
Board Approval                                               Pension, Insurance,
and Banking
Specialists
6/95       1           4              Pension Specialist
Financial,
Pension, Capital
11/95      4           5             markets, and
Banking
Specialists
Supervision            07/96      2            14            Financial Analyst       S              S
and Banking
Specialist
Financial
Specialist and
Pension Specialist
061197     2           14            Financial Sector         S             S
Specialist and
Banking Specialist
06/98      2           14              .                      U             S           Changes in
Financial                                        Government
Sector/Pension                                                l
Specialist
07/98      2           14                                     S             S
Completion             12/98       2           5             Pension Specialist      S              S           Closed as
and Financial                                     scheduled
Analyst



30
APPENDIX
A. Aide Memoire
Ayuda Memoria
Hermann von Gersdorff del Banco Mundial visit6 Bolivia del 7 al 12 de diciembre de
1998 para darle seguimiento al proyecto "Reforma de Mercados Financieros y Pensiones"
(Credito 2789-BO). Durante su visita la misi6n cont6 con la excelente y oportuna colaboraci6n
del personal y las autoridades del Ministerio de Hacienda y de las Superintendencias de
Pensiones, Valores y Seguros, Bancos y Entidades Financieras y Superintendencia de Recursos
Jerarquicos.
Con respecto al proyecto "Reforma de Mercados Financieros y Pensiones" se estableci6
que se estan logrando los objetivos del proyecto, pese a que la ejecuci6n del proyecto a resultado
mas lenta que lo planeado. El proyecto se cerrara de acuerdo al convenio de credito el 31 de
diciembre de 1998. Esta visita de seguimiento sera por lo tanto la filtima del proyecto.
Desde la visita de seguimiento de julio, la ejecuci6n del proyecto ha sido expedita. Los
cambios legales creados por la Ley 1864 del 15 de junio de 1998, no afectaron la ejecuci6n. En
Noviembre de 1998 se enmend6 el convenio de credito y se hicieron ajustes a los montos por
categoria de desembolso para facilitar la ejecuci6n del proyecto y lograr un mejor uso de los
recursos. Esta enmienda elimin6 las restricciones a algunos gastos y actividades y los deficits
que existian en algunas categorias. Se estima que alrededor del 5% (algo menos de US$0.5 mn)
del monto del credito no se desembolsara.
En un ayuda memoria separado se presentan una serie de acuerdos administrativos para
continuar con una ejecuci6n expedita hasta el 31 de diciembre y para proceder al cierre ordenado
del proyecto a los que se lleg6 con la Unidad Coordinadora. Entre estos acuerdos se destacan,
por la necesidad de obtener financiamiento ajeno al credito, mantener el contrato del coordinador
del proyecto por 3-4 meses mas para hacer los pagos pendientes, realizar la auditoria final del
proyecto y cerrar el proyecto, ademis hay que cubrir las perdidas cambiarias en las que incurri6
el proyecto ($5,000) y posiblemente pagar la ultima auditoria del proyecto ($4,000).
Como se mencionara mas arriba, se estan logrando los objetivos del proyecto que son:
1. Disefiar la reforma de pensiones y establecer el marco institucional y la capacidad para operar
y regular fondos de pensiones;
2. establecer la regulaci6n y las normas operativas para el mercado de valores; y
3. reforzar la regulaci6n y supervisi6n bancaria.
Cabe destacar que ninguno de los riesgos identificados durante la preparaci6n del proyecto,
inestabilidad macroecon6mica y abandono de las reformas de politica e instituciones, ocurri6
pese a una cargada agenda de reformas y una carga fiscal mayor a la esperada.
Los objetivos en el area de pensiones se estan logrando pese a que el componente no
contributivo de la reforma ha estado sujeto a cambios y a que los requerimientos de
financiamiento de la transici6n de un sistema a otro han resultado ser bastante superiores a las



31
estimaciones iniciales. El nuevo sistema de pensiones de ahorro individual ha funcionado
satisfactoriamente durante sus primeros 20 meses, pero requiere aun de mucho trabajo para
asegurar su exito en el largo plazo. Las normas del sistema aun tienen que ser completadas, la
industria de seguros auin esta lejos de satisfacer las nuevas demandas que enfrenta bajo el nuevo
sistema de pensiones, el mercado financiero requiere de mayor desarrollo para permitirle a las
administradoras de pensiones una mejor inversi6n del ahorro de pensiones y al Gobierno mayor
facilidad para financiar la transici6n.
Un componente que no recibi6 suficiente apoyo por parte del proyecto y que es de suma
importancia para el costo de la transici6n es el calculo y pago de los derechos a pensi6n bajo el
nuevo sistema. Esto incluye por una parte las pensiones a ser otorgadas bajo las antiguas reglas,
un area en que la Direcci6n General de Pensiones (DGP) ha hecho un muy buen trabajo con
pocos recursos y por otra parte el calculo de la compensaci6n por cotizaciones en el sistema
anterior. El trabajo que estan realizando en este segundo aspecto la DGP, el Viceministerio de
Asuntos Financieros y la UDAPE, puede resultar en ahorros muy significativos con una
inversi6n reducida en reconstruir la historia laboral de los participantes en el anterior sistema de
pensiones porque pequefios errores en el calculo o la f6rmula resultan en grandes costos para la
Tesoreria.
Tambien se lograron avances importantes en el area de valores pero es el area de
ejecuci6n menos satisfactoria del proyecto. Si bien se aprob6 una nueva ley, qued6 pendiente
mucho trabajo previsto para el fortalecimiento de la entidad supervisora y el desarrollo de
normas.
La ejecuci6n del proyecto en el area de bancos fue la mejor. Se cumplieron los planes de
trabajo y los desembolsos previstos. No s6lo se cumplieron las metas de desarrollo institucional
sino que tambien la asistencia tecnica al FONDESIF fue muy productiva en la resoluci6n de los
problemas de algunos bancos.
Tambien se discuti6 la preparaci6n del informe de ejecuci6n del proyecto (ICR) requerido
al cierre del proyecto. El Ministerio de Hacienda acord6 coordinar la preparaci6n de los
componentes de responsabilidad del Gobiemo y proveer la informaci6n requerida. La parte del
Banco Mundial sera preparada por Alison Beck.
11 de diciembre de 1998
La Paz, Bolivia
Herbert Muller                               Hermann von Gersdorff
Ministro de Hacienda                         Banco Mundial



32
B. Borrower Evaluation
Financial Markets and Pensions Reform
(Credit 2689-BO)
Implementation Completion Report
GOVERNMENT'S ASSESSMENT
Project Background
The Financial Markets and Pensions Reform was approved in 1995 in response to a request
from the previous administration for technical support to its pension reform program. This
project was designed mainly to provide strength to the financial sector and pension's
system in Bolivia. The program was closed on December 31,1998.
Achievement of Project Objectives
The objectives of the program were consistent with the goals and policies of the
Government towards the improvement of the financial markets and pensions system.
The first steps aiming to strengthen norms and regulations around the Pension Reform and
the Pension Superintendency were well established and the Banking and Capital Markets
Strengthening were achieved, although still underway.
Under this project, the Pension Law was approved (November 1996) and this law
permitted the creation of the regulatory system for activities related to the administration of
retirement, death and disability.
Legal Framework and results
The recently enacted Property and Popular Credit Law (PCP) has established the legal
basis for the Bolivian financial sector to develop. Its highly democratic inspiration will
enable the implementation of a distribution policy of benefits derived from the
capitalization and privatization scheme that has a high potential social impact.
With respect to the financial sector, the PCP Law has two major objectives. The first one
involves the equitable distribution of the Collective Capitalization Fund (FCC) to benefit
the beneficiaries of the capitalization program (i.e. the Bolivian population twenty-one
year old an over as of December 31, 1995). The FCC is currently composed of shares of
the former public enterprises and services. The second looks forward to using the financial
market to benefit a larger proportion of the population and to consolidate the financial
sector as a way to make productive activities more dynamic.



33
Concerning the first objective, the Law permitted the replacement of the regressive benefit
known as "BONOSOL", a lifetime yearly pension for citizens over the age of 65, with two
alternative benefits. The first of these alternatives involves the distribution of investment
fund shares (i.e.FCC shares) known as "Popular Shares", to all Bolivian citizens over the
age of 21 and younger than fifty year old as of December 31, 1995. The second alternative
benefit, "BOLIVIDA", is a lifetime pension for citizens who were over the age of fifty as
of the same date payable from the date they turn sixty-five.
In order to distribute these benefits, the Government and the Pension Fund Administration
(AFP's), responsible of managing the FCC, have modified the contractual agreement
which establishes the responsibilities of the AFP's in the management and distribution of
the AP's and Bolivian benefits. The Government has also approved a Supreme Decree and
named a Director responsible of a National Identification Registry (RIN). The RIN will
provide all citizens with a unique and trustworthy identification document that will
guarantee transparency in the distribution of the benefits derived from the capitalization
scheme.
Financial Regulation System
Within the framework of the Financial Regulation System (SIREFI), the Government's
objective has been the improvement of the efficiency of the financial regulation system, the
strengthening of banking regulation in accordance with international standards, and the
adoption of mechanisms to protect public deposits, while strengthening the independence
of regulatory entities.
After adjusting the regulatory framework for the financial sector, the Hierarchical
Resources Superintendency (SRJ) and the Pensions, Securities and Insurance
Superintendency (SPVS) were set up. These, together with the Banks and Financial
Institutions Superintendency (SBEF), are the sector's regulatory bodies.
As part of the PCP Law's application, the Financial Prudent Norms Committee (CONFIP)
was created. The members of this committee are the President of the Central Bank, the
SBEF, SPVS and the Vice-Ministry for Financial Affairs. Among other standards, the
committee has approved regulations for the Assessment and Arbitration of Loan Portfolios
and Consumer Operations, which are now properly guaranteed.
In summary, the PCP Law introduced four major changes in the system:
I. It merges of the three superintendencies of Pensions, Insurance and Capital Markets
into one (SPVS). The main purpose of this merge was to establish the foundations for
a homogeneous regulation and fiscalization of long term savings in the economy.
2. It creates the CONFIP, composed by representantives from the Ministry of Finance,
Central Bank of Bolivia (BCB), Superintendency of Pensions, Insurance and Capital
Markets (SPVS) and Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions (SBEF). Its



34
objective is to approve all relevant regulations regarding the financial system, mostly in
terms of solvency, liquidity and assets' quality.
3. It allows each single share to have the right to one vote in a bank property. Previously,
this right had caps according to the Banking Law of 1488, which could cause trouble in
case of a bank acquisition. This aspect permitted the successful intervention of the
BBA (Banco Boliviano Americano).
4. It facilitates intervention of a financial institution previous to its default, thus protecting
the depositors of suffering potential bigger losses.
With regard to the drafting of norms for banks and other financial institutions, the bill for a
Financial System Strengthening Law is currently being revised and is due to be presented
to Congress in the next few months. This bill provides for the implementation of a Deposit
Guarantee System. It also proposes to modify the Banks and Financial Institutions Law
regarding financial prudent norms, liquidation procedures, and the regulation of financial
institutions other than banks.
As the SIREFI's highest authority for administrative justice, the SRI has investigated ten
cases since its inception. Eight of these cases relate to the banks and financial institutions
sector and two to the insurance sector.
Banking System
The Financial Markets and Pension Reform Project also supported the strengthening of the
SBEF with the objective of designing plans to face and solve any banking crisis, and
attract foreign capital. This objective permitted the creation of a regulatory framework that
has strengthened the financial system. As a result, this new framework permitted the
increase of capital and reserve requirements.
The banking system has also been strengthened with the promulgation of the Bank and
Financial Institutions Law and the Law of the Central Bank of Bolivia that permitted to
foster and improve financial activities and liberalize the Bolivian financial market.
Despite these efforts, people's confidence in the banking system remained weak after the
intervention and liquidation of the Banco Sur, Banco de Cochabamba and BIDESA. The
last intervention took place on May 1999 to the BBA. The difference with the others has
been that is this case, the authorities managed to quickly operate the whole action without
creating instability among the population.
Pensions, Insurance and Capital Market System
The Pension Law not only created the SIREFI but replaced also all the former pension
institutions with the new Superintendency of Pensions, Insurance and Capital Markets



35
(SPVS). Furthermore, the law permitted the merge of the supervisory agencies of Pension,
Insurance and Capital Markets under the supervision of the SPVS.
At the moment, a Supreme Decree to determine the compensation arrangements (Article
63 of the Pensions Law) is in the process of being approved. A Ministerial Resolution that
will establish the specific operational and administrative procedures for this process is also
forthcoming. In addition, general norms have been approved for calculating the amount of
Lifetime Variable Monthly Payments and Life Insurance payments, as well as for the
organization and functioning of the SPVS.
With regard to insurance, an Obligatory Traffic Accident Insurance bill has been drawn up
and regulations for Pre-Paid Health Insurance are being prepared. Regulations have been
approved to design norms for the securities to be used by risk advisors. Proposed
regulations for the SPVS register and Stock Market Regulation Rates have been finalized.
Regulations for the Share Titles and Investment Funds, Societies bill, Securitization and
Rating Agencies are currently under review.
Sustainabiity
Actions to be taken in the future will concentrate on the strengthening of the regulation
systems (SIRESE, SIREFI and SIRENARE) in order to bring them up to date. With this in
mind, the remaining laws and regulations will be approved to complete the regulatory
framework and fortify the Superintendencies' independence and administrative
capabilities. It is important to stress that the actions to be taken are aimed at improving the
current legal framework with the purpose of attracting greater private investment into the
country.
Characteristics of the BONOSOL
After the Capitalization Program (Credit N2647-BO), Bolivia transferred the capitalized
shares to the new pension system. This situation provoked the closure of the former
pension system and the transfer of the shares to a custodian which was in charge of the
designation of two Pension Funds Managers (AFP's), the core of the new pension system.
Through this new pension system, it has been established the "BONOSOL", a benefit in
favor of old age people. The resources of the BONOSOL came from the shares of
the new capitalized companies and it has been split among all the population older than
sixty-five years in bonuses of US$ 250 per capita. Its launching took place shortly before
general elections and as a result, it provoked susceptibility because of the political
implications.
However, despite its objectives, the BONOSOL did not reach necessarily the poorest ones
because it attained more easily those living in the cities rather than those living in the
countryside who hardly reach the minimum age required to receive the bonus.



36
Additionally, the process resulted in more beneficiaries than expected due to some fraud
and amounted to three years of the annual public investment program.
At the moment, regulation and legislation still needs to be studied in order to permit an
adequate functioning of the whole system and not to discourage further affiliation.
Lessons Learned
The pension's system reform has been a costly experience for Bolivia, because the country
had to assume on its own the whole effort of the reform. This has become an important
and heavy financial burden that generated a deficit in the fiscal budget of the Nation.
Final Considerations of the project
The pension system shows sustainability in the long term and the commitment of the
Government and Superintendencies to the correct application of this system is total. In this
sense, the institutional framework is also in process to be further developed to strengthen
the capacity of the system as a whole.
Concerning the requirement of investing US$180 million per year in Treasury bonds to
help the transition, the GQvernment is aware of the consequences of the action in future
affiliations and it currently analyzes the possibilities to lower this requirement.
At the moment, the Governments' objective is to continue to develop the local bond
market and to improve management efficiency though the private sector.



