Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6412-BO
TECHNICAL ANNEX
BOLIVIA
FINANCIAL MARKETS AND PENSION REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
NOVEMBER 7, 1995
Public Sector Modernization and Private Sector Development Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 1995)
Currency Unit = Boliviano (Bs)
US$1.00 = Bs 4.86
Bs 1.00 = US$0.21
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFPs    -  Pension Fund Administrators
BCB      -  Central Bank of Bolivia
CAS      -  Country Assistance Strategy
CIF      -  Cost, Insurance and Freight
CNV      -  Comisi6n Nacional de Valores - Securities & Exchange Commission
CPAC    -  Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit
EU       -  European Union
ESAF    -  Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FOPEBA  -  Basic Pension Fund
FC       -  Complementary Pension Fund
FSAC    -  Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GDP      -  Gross Domestic Product
ICB      -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA      -  International Development Association
IDB      -  Inter-American Development Bank
IMF      -  International Monetary Fund
INASEP  -  Institutto Nacional de Seguros de Pensiones - National Institute of Pensions
PPF      -  Project Preparation Facility
RUN      -  Registro Unico Nacional - National Registry System
SAC      -  Structural Adjustment Credit
SDR      -  Special Drawing Rights
SBEF    -  Superintendency of Banks & Financial Entities
SIREFI  -  Financial Sector Regulatory System
SNSR    -  Superintendency of Insurance and Reinsurance
TGN      -  Tesoreria General de la Nacion - Treasury of the Nation
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



BOLIVIA
FINANCIAL MARKETS AND PENSION REFORM
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Bolivia
Implementing
Agency:             Ministry of Capitalization, Superintendency of Banks, Comisi6n Nacional de
Valores
Beneficiaries:      Ministry of Capitalization, Superintendency of Banks, Comisi6n Nacional de
Valores, and Superintendency of Pensions
Poverty Category:  Not applicable
Amount:             SDR 6.1 million (US$ 9 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA terms of 40 years maturity with 10 years grace period, and
0.75% service charge, less any waivers
Commitment Fee:  0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less any
waivers
Financing Plan:    See Schedule A.
Rate of Return:     The project's institution building features make it not amenable to the
calculation of rates of return. Measurement of benefits would be through
assessment of: (i) the efficiency and transparency of the financial markets
regulated; (ii) the solvency of financial intermediaries; and (iii) the growth of the
depth of markets.
Staff Appraisal
Report:             n.a.
Project Identification
Number:             BO-PA-34606
Map:                IBRD 20516



I



BOLIVIA - FINANCLAL MARKETS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX - THE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Section A: Detailed Project Description                                            1
1. Pensions and Contractual Savings Reform and Regulation
Background and Sector Strategy                                              1
Technical Assistance                                                        2
A. Secretariat of Pensions                                           3
B. Superintendency of Pensions                                       4
C. Instituto Nacional de Seguros de Pensiones (INASEP)               5
D. FOPEBA                                                            5
Cost Estimate                                                               6
II. Development of the Deferred-Distribution Capitalization Program               6
Background                                                                  6
Technical Assistance Program                                                7
Cost Estimate                                                               8
III. Securities Regulation                                                        8
Background and Sector Strategy                                              8
Technical Assistance Program                                                9
Cost Estimate                                                               11
IV. Superintendency of Banks                                                      11
Background and Sector Strategy                                              11
Technical Assistance                                                        11
Cost Estimate                                                               12
V Credit Administration - Operation of the Project Unit                            13
Section B: Procurement and Disbursement                                            13
Schedules
Schedule 1: Implementation Program and Indicators                           15
Schedule 2: Training Plan                                                   20






BOLIVIA - FINANCIAL MARKETS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX - THE PROJECT
Section A: Detailed Project Description
Pensions and Contractual Savings Reform and Regulation
Background and Sector Strategy
1.    Structure and Regulation. Bolivia's Social Security system is currently a defined-benefit system
providing benefits for retirement, survivorship and disability pensions, and medical insurance. Contributors
account for approximately 22% of the urban economically active population. Of the 304,000 contributors
to the system and 114,000 pensioners, about 65% are public sector employees. Mandatory pension
insurance operates through: (i) a national fund that covers basic pensions (FOPEBA); (ii) 24
complementary funds (FCs) organized on a sectoral or industrial basis; (iii) three insurance schemes that
cover health and pensions for bank employees, police and military, and (iv) eight pension schemes for
university employees. The Instituto Nacional de Seguros de Pensiones (INASEP) supervises the pension
schemes. Effective supervision to date has been extremely weak and registry of individuals has been poor.
2.    Contributions are of 9% of gross salaries to FOPEBA and are mandatory for covered workers.
T'he employer pays 5% of salaries; the employee pays 2.5% and the Government is expected to pay 1.5%.
Until a payment in 1993, no Government contributions were made for 30 years. Contributions to the FCs
average an additional 6.3% of gross salaries. Total contributions amounted to US$173 million in 1994.
FOPEBA receives financial support from the Treasury (TGN), including an estimated US$35 million to
cover its financial deficit in 1994. Two FCs received the support of the TGN in 1993. Given the current
relationship between contributors to retirees, the total contribution rate required only for FOPEBA to be
self-sufficient would be 14.6% if collection would improve strongly. However, currently there are 114
public and private enterprises with more than US$31 million in arrears to FOPEBA.
3.    Benefits. The current system offers modest benefits to begin with, yet they are not indexed to
inflation. The retirement age is low -- 50 and 55 years for women and men, respectively. Pension benefits
increase with years of service. The average pension benefit for the combined FOPEBA and FCs was
US$97 per month in 1993, with a minimum of US$41 and a maximum of US$400. 70% of pensioners
received a pension equal to under 2/3 of the minimum salary in 1989, and in 1992, 81 % of FOPEBA's
retirees had monthly pension benefits below US$56.
4.    Proposed Reforms - Individual Capitalization Scheme. The main objectives of the reform program
are to: (i) improve the services to retirees and affiliates; (ii) provide individual choice of pension
administrators (AFPs); (iii) improve the management and efficiency of long term savings; and (iv) ensure
market rates of return to pension savings. The new system would be characterized by: (i) mandatory
defined contributions from workers; (ii) private administration of contributions; and (iii) strong regulation
and supervision. The new pension system would gradually replace the current one as younger members,
new entrants to the workforce, and voluntary members join the new system. The program for undertaking
the above reforms will entail passing a Pensions Law and the development of a Superintendency of
Pensions. The Pensions Law which is in a draft form that is consistent with the principles agreed on for the
CPAC, has been presented to the President of Bolivia and is expected to be approved by Congress in
March, 1996. Supervision of the AFPs selected by the international bidding process would be performed
by the Superintendency of Pensions, an autonomous regulatory institution which would be established prior
to the opening for business of the first administrator. The Superintendency under the new system would
regulate the system's operations and administrators of investments of pension funds, authorize creation and



2
operation of pension funds, assure solvency and prudent management of administrators, supervise the
management of individual accounts, interpret legislation related to long-term social security and dictate
norms, supervise the validity of investment securities in the market through the Superintendency of
Securities, and authorize entities to act as custodians of financial securities. Contributions would be 10%
of salaries for individual capitalization account (retirement), an estimated 2% for coverage in cases of
general disability and survivorship and an estimated 2% administration fee which would be levied by the
pension fund administrator. Funds would be deposited into an individual capitalization account. Each
individual's account would accrue interest, dividends and capital gains from the investment of the
contributions. Benefits would be according to the level of accumulated contributions and investment
returns. Transition Arrangements wvould be such that workers would have the option to stay with the
FOPEBA or FCs or to elect to become a member in the new system. Workers incorporating into the new
system would receive a Transfer Incentive (Incentivo de Traspaso). Workers electing to remain in the old
system would receive benefits as expected under their basic and supplementary funds. Workers entering
the labor force for the first time would be required to join the new system.
5.     Proposed Reforms for Existing Pension Funds (FOPEBA and FCs). While the detailed reforms to
existing funds are currently being designed based on a series of studies underway, some of the conceptual
objectives of this reform area have been defined. Broadly, the objectives of this portion of the reform
would be to: (i) improve the contribution and benefit formula of the existing funds so as to make the funds
more actuarially solvent and ensure a more equitable benefit; (ii) reduce losses in select funds by
improvements in management, financial control systems and accounting information systems; (iii) improve
the transparency of information so that pension fund members can make more rational labor and retirement
decisions; and (iv) improve regulation and supervision to ensure efficiency, solvency and maintenance of
the public trust. In the latter case, existing funds would come under the regulatory authority of the
INASEP. Reforms to the existing funds are based on studies being undertaken in the following areas:
audits of the existing contributor, retiree and beneficiary base of each; audits of the financial statements;
actuarial audits; evaluations of accounting and management information systems; and evaluations of the
formulas for contributions and benefits based on the overall redesign of objectives.
6.     Proposed Reforms for Deferred Share Distribution Accounts. The Government is inviting new
investors to buy into Bolivia's principal public enterprises. With such investments, the Government would
distribute shares to the new investor and also distribute the Government's shares to the Bolivian population.
The Capitalization Law established the distribution of shares to Bolivians through privately-managed
deferred share distribution accounts (DSDAs). Such accounts would be managed in a way similar to, and
operationally integrated with, the private pension fund accounts indicated above. In this case, each Bolivian
who is an adult by December 1995, would receive a separate DSDA in an AFP. This account would have a
market value equivalent to the value of the shares distributed as well as accumulated dividends, interest and
capital gains. The AFP would have the authority to freely trade these shares in the secondary market,
subject to the prudential limitations imposed by the Superintendency of Pensions. DSDA account holders
would be entitled to the cumulative amount in their account as retirement benefits upon reaching the age of
60, or, in the case of death, the beneficiary would be entitled to the same. The objectives of the distribution
system chosen are primarily efficiency in administration, transparency, and to increase the proportion of the
population which has some coverage for a minimal pension or survivors' benefit.
Technical Assistance
7.     The aim of the technical assistance for contractual savings and pensions is focused in the following
areas: (i) establishment of the regulatory structure for the system of individual capitalization pension and
deferred-distribution accounts; (ii) assisting in the development of regulatory norms, deriving from, and
relating to, the Pensions Law; (iii) design of computerization, regulatory procedures and staffing for the
proposed Superintendency of Pensions; (iv) restructuring institutions of the existing pension system; and (v)
computerization of the proposed Superintendency of Pensions, INASEP and the Government's Pension



3
Fund. Assistance would be provided to the Secretaria de Pensiones, the Superintendency of Pensions, the
INASEP, and FOPEBA.
A. Secretariat of Pensions
Design of the Superintendency of Pensions. Short-term consultants would be contracted to design the
organizational structure of the Superintendency of Pensions, establish a personnel profile and termns of
reference for most positions, draft operating procedures, and draft an accounting and financial control
system on which the development of computerization (below) would draw upon.
Development of Regulatory Norms. The credit would support international short-term consultants,
assisted by long-term local consultants in the development of regulatory norns. Such norms would
include, inter alia, those for: establishing a pension fund (AFP); publicity by AFPs; requirements of
fund sales agents; regulation of new affiliates; amount and treatment of contributions; investmnent
norms; procedures for purchases, sales, custody and transfer of securities; and estimates of contribution
amounts; criteria for permanent disability and procedures for claiming disability and death benefits,
including formulas for distribution of funds to beneficiaries; norms for operational control of AFPs,
including criteria for accounts and cross checking; norns for the disability coverage and insurance
mechanisms; and accounting normns. The Secretariat of Pensions would also start work on the reforms
required by the insurance industry to provide the products required by the new pension system and
identify further work in the sector.
Computerization - Initial Phase.  Development of a computerized tracking, oversight and control
system would proceed in two stages, each supported by the Credit. The first phase would be the
development of a system database and information system to process data in the design phase of the
system and Superintendency. The credit would support the purchase of computers to carry out this
initial phase as well as support select software.
Transfer Incenyive. Assistance would be provided under the Credit to finance an evaluation of the
Transfer Incentive to be undertaken per individual account, to determine the amount to be provided to
the individual capitalization pension fund.
Development of Norms for Eisting Funds. Assistance would be provided by a series of phased visits
by short-term consultants to assist local long-term consultants to develop the following normns: (i)
reaffiliation and control of accounts in relation to transfers to individual capitalization (new system)
accounts; (ii) normns for enforcing employer and employee contributions and payment systems; (iii)
norms to modify the benefit structure of FOPEBA including modifications to benefit levels and
calculations. Such a program would be ultimately instituted through INASEP; (iv) norms for merger;
and (v) investment nonns.
International Bidding Process. Assistance would be provided under the Credit to finance activities to
promote the pension reform process among potential investors suitable to set up AFPs and a law firm to
draft administration contracts.
Assigning of DSDAs and Development of Norms and Procedures. With the support of the Credit
the bidding mechanism for DSDAs by the AFPs would be designed and the accounts would be assigned
to the AFPs. With the assistance of short term consultants the specific norms and requirements, which
are not part of the general norms of the new pension system for the management of DSDAs, would be
designed. In particular the distribution of benefits from the DSDAs will require specific norms and
procedures, and close supervision.



4
Public Information Campaign. Funds would be used under the Credit for a public information
campaign. Such a campaign would have as its focus explaining to current and potential pension system
members the nature of the individual capitalization account reform and explaining the options,
advantages and disadvantages of transfer from the old- to the new-system. A firm with experience in
public information campaigns would be contracted to design and carry out such a campaign.
B. Supenntendency of Pensions
8.     The measures supported below would be undertaken after the Superintendency of Pensions is legally
constituted:
Development       of
Operating                          ------ - ,s-s-s     ------------
Procedures.   Short-.
term      consultants      ti                                Total iCounter- eProposed
would be contracted to                                       Cout   part    iDA
develop     operating                                                Financed    Credit
procedures     which                                          2,164150
would        include  inPt
supervision procedures 1m o710                                            310       1,400
for AFPs, agents and        Sc677                                         277        400
brokers;   procedures
for  affiliation   and for                                    134         735        611
transfer  of  pension   ~j~                                    205                    205
fuind      members,                                            ,5        ,3          ,1
investment procedures                                        6 052      1,3         4,116
and supervision procedures; testing mechanisms; program  and documentation requirements.  In
addition, the consultants would be responsible for developing an accounting and financial control
system on which the development of computerization (below) would draw upon.
Computerization. A second phase in the development of a computerized tracking, oversight and
control system would be financed under the Credit. Principal modules would be control of investments,
benefits, comnissions and costs; cross-checking of the identity of beneficiaries and the internal
accounting system of the Superintendency of Pensions. Other modules would trace data on AFP
management and sales agents. Such a system would have subsystems including those which monitor
pension fuinds' prices, portfolio risk and exposure, monitoring sales agents, as well as an internal
information system  for the Superintendency. Development of these modules will encompass the
development of an entire set of procedures and requirements. The consultants would also establish the
operating procedures for the risk classification commission, if warranted.  Supplementary support
would be financed under the Credit for refining and upgrading the software subsequent to initiation of
its use. A second, separate module would be developed using the same hardware to monitor and
control non-contributory funds.
Development of Regtlatory Norms. The credit would support follow-up visits to review and revise
norms developed in association with the Secretariat of Pensions above as necessary based on the version
of the Pension Law enacted and experience in imnplementation.
Training. Assistance would be provided through short- and long-term consultants providing training
to the Superintendency of Pensions staff in: (i) pension accounting and financial management; (ii)
account tracking, financial reporting and reconciliation procedures; (iii) evaluation of pension fund
solvency and liquidity needs; (iv) review of sales agents' compliance with operating requirements; (v)



5
special training in tracking passive fund pension accounts; and (vii) evaluation of portfolio investments
of pension funds. The most important training modules would be: Investments, management of systems
of prices, calculations of profitability, oversight of contributions, future benefits, valuation systems, and
oversight and scrutiny of indicators. Training mechanisms would be through: (i) on-the-job training by
the consultant(s) developing operating procedures and norms; (ii) select visits by key Superintendency
staff to the Superintendency of Pensions in Chile and the National Social Security Institute, also in
Chile; (iii) select visits to regional conferences on pension reform; (iv) seminars established by
specialist consultants on the topics above; and (v) specific seminars by representatives of the stock
exchanges, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Central Bank.
C. Instituto Nacional de Seguros de Pensiones (INASEP)
Design of the new Structure of INASEP. Short-tern consultants would be contracted to revise the
organizational structure of INASEP, establish a personnel profile and terms of reference for most
positions, guidelines for operating procedures, and norns/guidelines for a control and supervision
system.
Merger of Fondos Complementarios.   The credit will assist the merger of the Fondos
Complementarios into FOPEBA. Specifically, assistance will be provided to create the legal basis for
the merger.
Development of a Database. Assistance would be provided by short- and long-term consultants in the
design of a consolidated data base of demographic, economic and actuarial data by fund member in
order to effect the transition indicated above. The work would entail: (i) design of the data base; (ii)
data collection (from each FC); (iii) data entry; (iv) initiation of data analysis; and (v) data
dissemination to FOPEBA and those select FCs which remain after the merger and liquidation program.
*   Development of Regulatory Procedures. Assistance would be provided by short- and long-term
consultants in the design of supervisory procedures.
*   Training. Assistance would be provided through short- and long-term consultants providing training to
INASEP staff in: (i) pension accounting and financial management; (ii) account tracking, financial
reporting and reconciliation procedures; and (iii) evaluation of portfolio investments of pension funds.
D. FOPEBA
Strengthening the Administration. Assistance would be provided by a series of phased visits by
short-term consultants to review the audits of accounts, management of cash flows, and general
adrninistration systems.
Information Management. Assistance would be provided by a series of phased visits by short-term
consultants to identify hardware and software requirements for the operational and financial
management of FOPEBA. Subsequent assistance would be provided for the purchase of software for
FOPEBA.
Development of a Database - Assistance would be provided by short- and long-term consultants in the
design of a consolidated data base of actuarial data by fund member in order to effect the transition
indicated above. The work would entail: (i) design of the data base; (ii) data collection using existing
FOPEBA forms; (iii) data entry; (iv) initiation of data analysis; and (v) data dissemination.



6
Calculation of the Transfer Incentive.  The Credit would assist this fundamental component of the
reform by financing short-term consultants that will design the system to determine the current pension
system's liabilities with individual affiliates to-date and review the results.
*    Studies of Worker Compensation. An evaluation of the existing workers compensation system  would
be supported by the credit with the intent of developing separate treatment through subsequent
legislation to modify the existing system. A review would be undertaken including: (i) existing
coverage; (ii) contribution and benefit levels; (iii) benefit incidence and distribution; (iv) actuarial
projections of funding needs; and (v) evaluation of benefit incidence and levels against salaries. From
this review, the consultant(s) will develop a proposal for modifications to the existing workers
compensation system in Bolivia.
Cost Estimate
9.       The total estimated cost of the program  outlined in Table 1 above is US$ 6 million of which US$4.1
million would be financed under the Credit.
Development of the Deferred-Distribution Capitalization Program
Background
10.      The development and establishment
of deferred share distribution accounts as                           Description of The Deferred Distribution Program
described in paragraph 6. above and in the
boxcrisba  integral partgraph of th overnm       s        * Participation would be available for all registered Bolivians either 18 years of
box IS an integral part of the Goverment's                  age and married or over 21 years of age (3.2 million people) as of December
reform  and capitalization program. The                     31, 1995;
DSDAs establish the link between the                       Registration would be through the Registro Unico Nacional (RUN), a registry
system for all Bolivians whereby mobile units physically register each
capitalization program  and the pension                     Bolivian and provide for a unique identity card;
reform  by defining that the capitalized                   A Temporary Depository of Shares or Trustee would be established to serve as
the holder of shares between capitalization and distribution. Shares would
shares will be managed by private pension                   then be transferred to the AFPs as citizens are registered and are assigned an
managers. The main steps for the                            AFP;
Private Management and Choice. Participants would be assigned to an AFP
establishment of the DSDAs are to register                  according to the terms of the international bidding and later on would be free
the Bolivian population, capitalization of the              to change AFP;
*Portfolio Mana-gement. AFPs would manage this non-contributory fund
enterprises, setting up a trustee to keep the               portfolioofDSDAs. Portfoliodiversificationrequiremnents would be
shares until they are taken over by the                     established by the Superintendency of Pensions and, over time it is expected
AFPs, and  transfer of the management of                    that gradual turover ofdthe porfolio could achieve such diversification;
*Retirement Benefits. Individuals would receive their accumulated balances at
the shares to the AFPs.                                     age 60. Their survivors would receive such balances in the case of death,
regardless of age. Under consideration is a plan that benefit payments would
be spread out over a number of years;
11.      An important element of the                      AFPs would charge an administrative fee for administration of non-
distribution system  will be the development                contributory fund which would be deducted from the funds' assets, according
to legal ceilings under development;
of a Fiduciary Account and Transfer                        Supervision - Pension Svstem Superintendency. The system would be
System  (indicated above). Once an                          supervised by a Superintendency of Pensions; and
Information on Account Balances. Each individual would be entitled to an
enterprise is capitalized, the resulting shares             update on his or her account balance on a routine basis by visiting an
would be placed in a fiduciary account with                 authorized location. AFPs would be required to report movements on the
accounts of each individual who holds a non-contributory fund every five
a Trustee. Subsequently, once a system  is                  years. Financial reports on the portfolios managed by all AFPs would be
in place whereby such shares can be                         published and publicly reported by the Superintendency of AFPs.
managed by an AFP, these shares would be
transferred out of the Trustee's account to a custodian for safekeeping while the AFP would manage them.
While the conceptualization of such a mechanism has been developed, establishing the actual procedures
for account transfer, reconciliation, cross-check and control will require the assistance of the credit. The
design of the institutional arrangements are of utmost importance both for the success of the capitalization
process and the viability of the pension reform.



7
12.    To be able to distribute the capitalization shares it is necessary to register and provide identification
cards to all Bolivian adults. This National Registry (RUN) and the data base that it will generate will
provide an important instrument for other development endeavors. For instance it could facilitate the
targeting of social programs and broaden electoral participation. It is mainly for these additional benefits
that IDB has agreed to finance most of the cost of the acceleration of the registry process.
13.   In developing the pensions and deferred distribution programs in Bolivia, the authorities have been
cognizant that the success of these programs will hinge, in part, upon effectively communicating both the
costs of maintaining the status quo, and the benefits of reform. A communications strategy is currently
being developed with IDA assistance incorporating this broad message as well as educating various target
audiences about specific aspects of the program, to allay unwarranted fears, and build support among
stakeholders.
Technical Assistance Program
14.    Technical assistance under the Credit would be provided as follows:
Fiduciary Account and Transfer System. Assistance has been  provided for the recruitment of a
Trustee that will keep the shares of the capitalized enterprises in trust and assist the Government im the
capitalization of the enterprises, the reform of the pension system, the distribution of the capitalized shares,
and establish and develop the local custodian capacity. The trustee fees, of about US$250,000 for two
years, would be paid from the dividends of the shares it holds in trust. However, in the event that during
the first two years the dividends are insufficient to cover the fees of the trustee the difference would be covered
from the proceeds of the proposed credit. The project would also finance consultants that would be
expected   to   design   the
supervision  of the  fiduciary      .                                                 -- L
account   system,   including                      capifilization IUS$)
account           verification,   TIE                 Total Cost  Counterpart   Proposed
reconciliation    and    control                                     Financed       IDA
systems; the  transfer system                                                       Credit
(from  the fiduciary account to X    _  Y |         tt   527,000        50,000    477,000
AFP), including mechanisms for    .   )
transfer and amount verification;
and      arrangements     for . IF                       113,000        20,000      93,000
traceability, including financial  A4X  E *>d          8,138,000    7,359,000    779,000
market implications. The output   R        ,t000
of this work would be a detailed   La~t471,000                                      71,000
implementation program in each                         8 .  8 849,000    7,429,000   1,420,000
area.
Supplemental specialized guidance will be needed in the development of a secure Cash Distribution
System both to urban and rural areas. Although the actual costs of distribution of benefits will be borne
by AFPs (deducted from account balance according to a formula under development) the rules for
ensuring a secure and equitable distribution will be developed under the Secretariat of Pensions and
Secretariat of Capitalization. Funding would be provided under the credit for specialized short-term
consultants to assist in developing these rules and in developing a manual of procedures for the
supervision of this facet of the distribution.
* Acceleration of the Registry System. The Registro Unico Nacional (RUN) is charged with the task of
registering and providing an identification to all Bolivian adults. The RUN currently registers individuals
using mobile units (one registrar, one policeman and one clerk) who travel to each village and transcribe



8
the required information for each individual, including photograph and fingerprint. The RUN has
currently registered approximately 450,000 Bolivians and aimns to have completed the registry of all
3,200,000 Bolivians within 18 months. To accomplish this, the existing staff and resources of the RUN
will need to be supplemented by advisors and contracted assistants to amplify and accelerate the process.
The proposed credit would support a portion of the extra advisory services and capital expenditures
estimated to be required to complete the rural registration: a mainframe computer, related hardware and
peripherals for the RUN computer center; and software for issuing the identification cards.
SIREFI. Currently, IDA is assisting the Secretariat of Capitalization in the analysis of the possibility to
establish an overall financial system regulatory entity. The Credit would support the recruitment of local
and international legal consultants, particularly in the areas of administrative law and financial law.
Cost Estimate
15.    As indicated in Table 2 above, the total estimated cost of the program outlined is US$ 8.8 million of
which US$ 1.4 million would be financed under the Credit.
Securities Regulation
Background and Sector Strategy
16.    A regulated securities market has been operating since 1989, with support by USAID until end-
1993. The La Paz stock exchange offers all types of securities and the Santa Cruz exchange has focused
on commodities trading. The La Paz exchange initially traded only in Central Bank time deposits, then
expanded in 1991 to corporate bonds, mandatory convertible bonds of banks, in 1993, to negotiable CDs of
banks and repurchase agreements, and, in 1994, it started trading stocks. Trading volume has been small,
regulation very weak and little transparency through information disclosure.
17.    The existing laws governing securities transactions consists of the commercial code as the
foundation, upon which rests the Organic Law of the Comisi6n Nacional de Valores, CNV (under
Supreme Decree), followed by regulations (circulars) issued by the CNV (promulgated by the Minster of
Finance) and finally the constitution and rulebooks of the two stock exchanges. A 1987 decree which
promulgated the Commercial Code provided legislation governing the workings of a securities market in
Bolivia. A subsequent decree promulgated the Organic Law governing the CNV, charging it with the
responsibility to regulate and supervise stock markets, stock exchanges, and intermediaries in the public
offer of securities. A new Securities Law that has been revised and cleared by IDA has been presented to
the Minister of Finance and is expected to be approved by Congress by late 1995.
18.   The CNV monitors stock exchange trading by receiving and reconciling transaction data received
at the end of each day from stockbrokers, in part by an automated surveillance system. This enables the
CNV to detect, for example, a repurchase agreement involving a security which is past its maturity date.
The CNV also collects, collates and disseminates market statistics for the two exchanges. The La Paz
stock exchange publishes select statistics on market activity so that there is some duplication with data
published by the CNV. Equity trading will become increasingly important as a result of the impact of the
capitalization program. In its regulatory and supervisory functions, the CNV will be challenged by the
greater potential price volatility of shares, the greater opportunities for price manipulation and gains from
insider dealing, and the likely lower liquidity and market depth in share trading than now exist in the
present market for debt obligations. A cause of low morale and weak development of the CNV has been
uncertainty concerning its funding which until the end of 1993, had been provided almost entirely by
USAID. The CNV also receives US$300 per annum from each stockbroking firm. In this context, there
appears to be scope to increase the commnissions levied on transactions and market operators.



9
19.    Of the 18 members of the La Paz exchange, 10 firms are subsidiaries of banks. They are
permitted to trade portfolios on their own account (15 do so) and trade on behalf oftheir clients (11 do so).
Turnover on the La Paz stock exchange in 1993 was of the order of US$ 600 million regaining the level of
1990, after having declined by 50% to a low in 1992. Turnover was over US$1 billion in 1994. The range
of instruments traded in purchase or sale transactions on the La Paz stock exchange has steadily evolved
and diversified since 1990, including both bond, CD and repurchase transactions. The majority of trades
are for short- and medium term debt instruments, and most transactions are in the secondary market for
bank's fixed term time deposits and CDs, with repurchase agreements. Dealing is by open outcry at a call-
over of listed securities. The listing and subsequent trading in shares, whether deriving from the
capitalization program, from direct privatizations, or from existing previously private companies, is likely
to be the next challenge to which the stock exchange will have to adapt.
20.   There are five mutual funds in Bolivia, all of which are invested in US dollar-denominated debt
instruments which provide investors with a high yield by purchasing medium-term maturity instruments,
hedging the liquidity risk with repurchase agreements and capturing the maturity premium. At present
there is no specific regulation of fund managers or fund management as such but that is considered in the
draft Securities Law.
21.   The main activity of the Santa Cruz stock exchange is the physical trading of commodities.
Securities activities consist principally of the purchase or sale of foreign currency denominated bills of
exchange for their clients' account, and negotiable promissory notes for monthly installment payments
spread over two years for equipment and automobiles. Turnover has risen steadily during 1993 from
January's level of US$ 200,000 and is currently running at an average rate of US$ 1 million a month.
There is no link to securities trading sessions at the La Paz stock exchange, since the two stock exchanges
currently trade different instruments. Four stockbroking firns are registered on the Santa Cruz exchange.
22.   There are no custody, clearing and settlement arrangements at present offered by the exchange, and
securities are physically moved between safe boxes. Similarly, clearing and settlement is done on a manual
basis for the securities and through funds transfers from banks to brokers and vice versa. There is
however, a proposal by one company to offer custodial services on a commercial basis and the intention to
establish an electronic stock exchange.
23.   Investors in Bolivia have no convenient way of assessing the quality of individual debt obligations
such as commercial bank CDs or corporate bonds, or the credit standing of their issuers. While there are
several newsletters prepared by brokers, there is no credit rating service available to investors and no credit
rating agency.
Technical Assistance Program
24.    The proposed technical assistance program has three objectives: (i) to establish stronger normative
standards for market participants in securities trading; (ii) to strengthen the capacity and procedures of the
CNV in accordance with the functions of the institution established in the draft Securities Law; and (iii) to
establish a revised information system for continuous oversight of securities transactions.
25.    Assistance will be provided under the Credit for the following:
Review and Improvement of CNV's Rulings and Regulations. Related to improving the legislation,
select implementing regulations need to be drafted and CNVs circulars (nonus) and rulings need to be
strengthened and made compatible with the new law, the latter being the legal framework to be
established as a disbursement condition under this component. Assistance would be provided by
external consultants to: (i) revise existing rulings to strengthen and adapt thern to the new law; (ii) draft
rulings on: requirements for equity issuance, capital requirements for issuers, brokerage margin lending,



lo
audit requirements for issuers, mutual fund regulations and rules for risk rating agencies; (iii) draft
rulings on new financial instruments and requirements derived from the capitalization and pension
reform process and (iv) issue norms for approval and regulation of a central depository and clearing
system.
Institutional Restructuring.   _______
An   international  consultant
would be contracted to do an
assessment  of  the  existing.
structure of the CNV, prjected                               Total Cost  Counter-   Proposed
regulatory   needs  in  the                                               part-      IDA
securities  makers  and  the                                            Financed    Credit
impact of capitalization  and                      _            36,000      6,000     30,000
from  this develop a detailed 2
institutional    restructuring  ,          Ritr2:''ss          242,000     4200      200,000
program. Such a report would                                   246,000     46,000    200,000
include:  (i) an  analysis  of                           ,     541.500     10,500    531,000
current   staff  and   future                                  54,0 ss50             531.,000
requirements; (ii) an assessment s                              75,000     15,000     60,000
of the current organizational  i!t sedw                .
structure and preparation  of       i                          128,000     28,000    100,000
modifications to this structure,
as necessary; (iv) preparation
of job descriptions and salary   Mar            ,sdeit    Swi   73,000     11,000     62,000
structures for key positions; (v)
definition of revised budgetary       .td                       50,000                50,000
projection procedures, including.
frogectlonproedusetti uding lw>E!; and...........................       . (vi) definitn  .......1,391,500    158,500   1,233,000
supervision   objectives   and
criteria. Separate assistance would be contracted for: (i) preparation of offsite analysis procedures and a
manual; (ii) preparation of on-site inspection procedures and a manual; and (iii) revision of the accounts
manual for financial reporting purposes by agents, brokers and issuers.
* Upgrading Supervision and Inspection Procedures. Consultants would be hired to prepare: (i)
manuals for examination procedures of brokerage firms and bourses; (ii) revise charter of accounts for
exchanges and brokerage houses; (iii) a manual for financial analysis of brokerage houses; and (iv)
guidelines to assess quality of issue proposals. A long term consultant would be hired to strengthen the
supervision of issuers and traders of shares and American Depository Receipts (ADRs).
* Information Systems. Support would be provided for significant improvement in the computerized
system for the processing and oversight of securities transactions. An initial study would be undertaken
to review the existing system and develop the design specifications for an on-line, real-time monitoring
system connected to the two securities exchanges and all agents and brokers. Further support would be
provided for the purchase of hardware, software and peripherals and related training for CNV staff in
the use of the system developed. Finally, subsequent support would be provided for refining the
software configurations in order to reflect changes in transactions and oversight needs during the period
supported by the Credit.
* Training. Training would be undertaken in two phases: (i) a training program would be designed for
CNV Staff. Once developed, such a program would be implemented as follows: The program would
seek to develop the CNV staff emphasizing the following areas: (i) identification of the main risks in
securities trading; (ii) financial analysis of issuers, agents and brokers; (iii) examination procedures for



11
securities firms, courses and participants; and (iv) exchanges with international specialists through
participation in seminars and other events. Training would be undertaken through: (i) four international
seminars on selected topics; (ii) four international courses in the examination of securities firms; (iii)
ongoing internal training; and (iv) 24 work assignments in foreign securities supervision authorities.
Market Development and Promotion.  The exchanges and brokerage houses currently lack the
resources to finance a prograrn to develop and promote the securities market. It is believed that the
CNV should take the leading role in these tasks during its embryonic stage. Assistance would therefore
be provided for: (i) support by a consultant to the Economic Studies Department in the CNV in the
gathering, analysis, presentation, and distribution of statistical information, bulletins, etc; and (ii)
organize seminars, conferences and workshops to promote the value of securities markets to both issuers
and investors.
Cost Estimate
26.   As indicated in Table 3 above, the total estimated cost of the program outlined above is US$ 1.4
million of which US$ 1.2 million would be financed under the Credit.
Superintendency of Banks
Background and Sector Strategy
27.   The Government has taken significant measures to improve Banking regulation and supervision
since 1987 when by Supreme Decree it reestablished an independent Banking Superintendency and
strengthened prudential regulations. With decision-making and financial autonomy and support from IDA
technical assistance, the Superintendency of Banks (SBEF) gradually became an institution with a
reputation for objectivity and professionalism. Support was provided in the development of SBEF
resolutions and circulars, on-the-job and external training of inspectors and financial analysts, audits of
banks and computer equipment. In April, 1993, a revised Banking Law was passed. Prudential regulation
provisions proved critical to establishing a stronger regulatory framework for banking supervision.
Establishing minimum loan classification and arrears standards, provisioning guidelines, loan concentration
limits, limits on related-party lending, maximum leverage and minimum capital requirements provided the
basis for a stronger regulatory framework and, ultimately, the basis for stronger banking risk management.
28.   At the same time regulation and supervision has been changing, so too has been the nature and
sophistication of the banking system. The level of capitalization and deposit mobilization in the system has
significantly increased over time, reflecting both capital requirements in relation to a growing asset base as
well as the need to provision loan losses. Non-bank financial institutions, often linked to banks such as
savings and loans, leasing companies, deposit warehouses, and securities dealers have become increasingly
important. Moreover, instruments such as Government and private securities and credit card debt is
becoming increasingly important.
29.   Given the nature of existing changes in the financial markets and expectations for the significant
changes outlined above resulting from Capitalization and contractual savings reforms, banks and other
financial institutions are facing a myriad of new risks that the SBEF needs to have the sophistication to
monitor and ensure adequate control.
Technical Assistance
30.    Support would be provided for:



12
Strengthening     of    Human
Resources. The SBEF is initiating
a program  that will result in new    m. .  E                                      Proposed
human  resources   development                              Total Cost   Counter-   Proposed
policy, staff rules and management                                      Fin arte    foreditA
procedures,     and     traimnng                                        Financed    Credit
guidelines. International and local   l                       301,765    101,765    200,000
consultants would be contracted     *~MW~Wt~~
under the Credit to design an        U   t   Q   .            281,717     86,717    195,000
annual skills updating course and
provide training. New  inspectors     yg 
would be trained in credfit analysis                         1,952        1651       9600
techniques  including  collateral,
cash-flow  and risk concentration  ~~o~d247,672                           67,472    180,000
analysis.      More   seasoned      #~~nM
inspectors would be trained in the                            453,161    283,161    170,000
following areas: (i) the nature of                            4       SE             170,000
commnercial  nrsks  in  specific
business areas, including soya and             X              250,000               250,000
other agriculture, minerals  and    . ....         .....
mnining, select manufacturing and             ::5 i:5eg0.0S>;:egsisgs:g,y5yis:<E 2,736,636    745,636   1,991,000
select services; (ii) the nature of
valuation and assessment of bank investments, including portfolio investments and investments in
subsidiary companies; (iii) assessment of off-balance sheet risks, including securities transactions and
trust activities; (iv) collateral valuation techniques, particularly in real estate markets; and (v) interest
rate and liquidity risk assessment. Training of financial analysts would focus on credit assessment with
special emphasis on financial projection techniques, interest rate risks, refunding (liquidity) risk and
sectoral risks. Training is coordinated with support from GTZ which has provided assistance in the
assessment of institutions that cater to small-sized borrowers. In addition training in informatics would
be provided to improve the staff's understanding of the new informatic system. Support would be
provided for select attendance at specialized overseas courses to provide exposure to financial analysts
and inspectors on analytical techniques not available in Bolivia. The focus of these courses would be on
regional trends (CEMBLA); cross-border, including off-shore risks; off-balance sheet risk valuation,
including derivative risks; and advanced courses in risk assessment offered by the US Federal Reserve.
Development of Norms. The ongoing program to keep banking regulations current with legal changes
and market developments includes activities to: (i) draft regulations to the current Banking Law so as to
make it compatible in word and spirit within the legal framework established for the Central Bank, (ii)
draft similar regulations to ensure the same compatibility with draft Insurance, Securities and Pensions
laws; (iii) draft policies and procedures for financial institutions in critical conditions; and (iv) review
and modify as necessary the policies and procedures applicable to non-bank financial institutions.
Select assistance would be provided for the contracting of international experts for short-term visits to
implement regulations. Such norms will include those on: capital adequacy, lending concentration,
related-party risks, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, and off-balance sheet risks.
Update of Operational Guidelines. The SBEF's procedures and guidelines have allowed an adequate
supervision of Bolivia's banking system. However, they are becoming dated and need to be updated.
The SBEF is planning to renew its internal organization, procedures and rules. It will also review and
update the manuals for inspections, accounts, and financial analysis. Assistance would be provided to
review and evaluate the SBEF's inspections, reports on external audits, financial analysis, and portfolio
evaluation. The expected output would be improved operational guidelines and manuals and a medium-
term program for ongoing updates and improvements.



13
Institutional Development. The SBEF is adjusting to the new Central Bank Law that is expected to be
approved during the last quarter of 1995. This will imply some changes to the institution and its
procedures. IDA will support the design of a strategic medium-term plan to achieve this changes. In
addition, support will also be provided to help the SBEF's staff adjust to the changed institution and its
new rules, systems, and policies. To improve the institution's capacity to identify and solve the new
problems its sector is facing, a new area of studies and statistics would be designed and set up with the
aid of international consultants. The production and dissemination of statistics would also be reviewed
and improved.
Strengthening of Information Systems. The SBEF is acquiring a new mainframe and software.
Support would be provided for the development of a second-generation of software for the stand-alone
and networked system. Support is also needed to expand the scope of inputs and outputs in terms of
institutions and instruments of the risk analysis unit. The desktop computer hardware and software is
increasingly archaic and restricts the analytical techniques employed by inspectors. Also the mainframe
central system has inadequate peripherals to download information to personal computers so as to
permit individualized analysis. Funds are needed for peripherals to link the mainframe to the stand-
alone system.. Finally, funding is needed for computer-related training to facilitate wider-spread access
to mainframe processing techniques.
Cost Estimate
31.    As indicated in Table 4 above, the estimated cost of the program outlined above is US$ 2.7 million
of which US$ 2 million would be financed under the credit.
Credit Administration - Operation of the Project Coordination Unit
32.    A  Project    Coordination  Unit              -          Costi f T4whflital Assist n eto
established in the Ministry of Capitalization          SupporE the Pruject Unit (USS)
will  be  responsible  for  ensuring: (1)
coordination and oversight of counterpart                        Total     Counter-   Proposed
requess forftmdig; (11 thatcountrpartCost                   part       IDA
requests for funding; (ii) that counterpart           ~Financed    Credit
agreements, including counterpart funding
agreements, are complied with; (iii) that  'B     i i*z*mB4 158,000          25,000   133,000
Republic of Bolivia and IDA procurement s Wl i...4
procedures are complied with; (iv) that                           94,600      14,600    80,000
disbursements are effected expeditiously; (v)  14'0 :5,40 
adequate  management  of  the  Special       B       4 0 I t      15,000                15,000
Account; and (vi) that audit and other    toi i  i                12,000                12,000
reporting requirements are complied with  i* -..:'
under the Credit. The Project Unit would be       _              279,600     39,600   240,000
staffed by a coordinator and an assistant and
would work together with the Procurement Unit established in the Ministry of Capitalization by previous credits
to process all procurement requests of the project.
33.    As indicated in Table 5, US$ 240,000 of the Credit would be used to support the operation of this
unit. This would be for office equipment, setting up an audit and procurement system, and providing
assistance in the management, planning, and coordination of the project.



14
Section B: Procurement and Disbursement
34.    Procurement of all project components financed under the proposed Credit will be according to
World Bank Guidelines for Procurement (January 1995). The Credit would finance US$ 9 million
equivalent (47% of total project costs of US$19.3 million), including 43% of foreign exchange costs and
the remaining US$10 million would be financed by Government counterpart resources. IDA's share of
foreign exchange costs has been reduced because of the Borrower's decision to take advantage of the
opportunity to lease and to use other sources of financing for most of the informatic equipment. The Project
Coordination Unit would work together with the Procurement Unit, established in the Ministry of Capitalization
by previous credits, to process all procurement requests of the project. These procurement arrangements comply
with IDA procurement procedures.
35.    Consultant's services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing
Agency" (August 1981). Contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by IDA. Prior IDA review
of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, and contracts shall not apply to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms and individuals estimated to cost less than $30,000
equivalent each. However, all consultants or firms will be subject to Association review of: terms of
references, single source selections, critical nature assignments, and contract amendments raising the value
to $30,000 or above, as well as prior review for all service contracts, and employment of trainers. Foreign
consultants shall not be required to (a) enter into joint agreement ventures with local consultants, (b)
legalize their proposals or related documentation as a prerequisite to participate in the selection procedure,
or (c) register in the National Registry of Consultants or other registries.
Procurement Arrangements
(Estimated Cost in US$)
Expenditure              IDA Financed Procurement           Not IDA               Total
Category                 ICB                 Other          Financed
Consultants                                   7,070,000        1,355,000       8,425,000
(6,345,000)                      (6,345,000)
Training                                       426,000                           426,000
(412,000)                        (412,000)
Services                     417,000            65,000                          482,000
contracts a/                (417,000)          (55,000)                        (472,000)
Goods/Equipment             1,650,000           121,000       8,205,000        9,976,000
(1,650,000)        (121,000)                      (1,771,000)
Total                     2,067,000         7,682,000       9,560,000       19,309,000
(2,067,000)       (6,933,000)                     (9,000,000)
Note:  Figures in parentheses indicate the amounts financed by IDA
a/  For trustee of capitalized shares, legal support, and infornation campaign.
36.    Goods financed under the Credit would be mainly computer equipment and would be procured as
follows: (i) ICB for contracts valued at more than US$25,000, using Bank-issued standard bidding
documents satisfactory to IDA; and (ii) for contracts valued at US$25,000 or less, through national
shopping procedures satisfactory to IDA (not exceeding US$250,000 in the aggregate). Prior review will
be mandatory for all ICB procurement, for service contracts (trustees, legal services, training, information
campaigns) as well as for the first contract procured through shopping.
37.    Disbursements will be administered by the Project Coordination Unit in the Ministry of
Capitalization. A Special Account will be established within the Bolivian Central Bank for the activities to



15
be financed by this Credit. An initial deposit of US$ 500,000 (equivalent to two months of estimated
disbursements) would be made into this account with subsequent deposits equalling the same amount until
cumulative withdrawals reach or exceed $3,500,000, following which, subsequent deposits would amount
to $900,000. Statements of expenditure will be used for disbursements of up to US$25,000 equivalent in
the case of goods with the exception of the first purchase utilizing shopping procedures, US$30,000 in the
case of consulting firms and individual consultants. Disbursements would be made against 100% of the net-
of-tax costs of local and foreign consultants, 100% of the net-of-tax expenses of training, 100% of the CIF cost
of imported goods and of the ex-factory cost of local goods and 84% of the cost of locally-procured goods, and
100% of foreign expenditures and 84% of the cost of locally-procured service contracts. The Project is expected
to be completed by mid 1998. The closing date would be December 31, 1998.
38.    Records and Auditing will be the responsibility of the Project Unit, which will establish separate
accounts for each component and will monitor all expenditures financed by the project. The Bolivian
Central Bank will maintain separate records and accounts for all special account transactions under the
Credit. Project accounts, the special account and statements of expenditures will be audited each year by
auditors satisfactory to IDA and the audit report of the Borrower, CNV and SBEF will be sent to IDA
within 180 days after the end of the fiscal year. In addition to this financial reporting, a full progress report
will be prepared and submitted to IDA every January 31 and July 31, starting in January 1996. This report
will detail all project and related activities, report on progress in relation to agreed schedules, and identify
any problems which may have been encountered and which could adversely affect the overall impact of the
project.
39.    Agreed Actions: During negotiations agreement was reached on (i) consulting, equipment,
training needs, and a financing plan of the project, including financing mechanisms (such as budgetary
transfers) to satisfy counterpart financing requirements for the period of the Credit, for the CNV and the
Superintendency of Pensions, (ii) terms of reference in the form of a matrix of key project activities,
including objectives, outputs, timetables, implementation plan, and performance indicators; and (iii) in
addition to meeting all financial reporting requirements, a full progress report to be prepared and submitted
to IDA every six months.
40.    Credit Effectiveness: Effectiveness will be conditioned on (i) the appointment of a head of the
project unit; and (ii) issuance of a report by the Government providing greater clarity as to the
characteristics of the deferred share distribution system.
41.    Disbursement Conditions: There are no conditions for disbursement for most components of the
credit with the exception of (i) expenditures by the Superintendency of Pensions component, which require
creating that institution; (ii) expenditures for drafting new securities regulations, which require a legal
framework for the securities market, satisfactory to IDA; and (iii) expenditures for drafting new Banking
Law regulations, which require a legal framework for the Central Bank, satisfactory to IDA.



16
SCHEDULE ONE
BOLIVIA - FINANCIAL MARKETS AND PENSION REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM AND INDICATORS
Main         Project Component  Expected Output - 1995                                                           Expected Output - 1996                  Expected Output - 1997
Objectives    Activities
Establish-   Development and    Drafting and review of norms completed for: establishing a pension fund (AFP); publicity    Pensions law passed.         Defined-contribution system
ing and      Implemen-tation of    by AFPs; requirements of fund sales agents; regulation of new affiliates; amount and  Superintendency of Pensions functioning  linked to start of deferred-
Strengtheni   Prudential          treatment of conributions; investment norms; procedures for purchases, sales, custody  with independent staff and budget.  distribution accounts.
ng Pension    Regulationts and     and transfer of securities; limitations on and treatment of investments abroad; benefit  Defined-Contribution pension system  Consultant follow-up visits
Supervision aNorms for New    norms, including criteria for calculation of recognition bonds, and estimates of  begins mid-year.
and Regu-    Individual            contribution amouints; criteria for permanent disability and procedures for claiming  Consultant follow-up visits conducted to  revise procedures based
lation if and   Capitalization     disability and death benefits, including distribution of funds to beneficiaries; norms for  review and revised procedures based on  on experience in
when         (Defined-             operational control of AFPs, including criteria for accounts and cross checking; norms  experience in implementation (late  implementation.
legislation is  Contribution)      for the disability coverage and insurance mechanisms; and accounting norms.      1996).
enacted.     Funds                                                                                               Initial normative circulars issued.
Principal implementing regulations issued
through Supreme Decree.
Development of     Regulations incorporating the following norms drafted: (i) reaffiliation and control of  Regulations issued by Supreme Decree,  FOPEBA fully operational.
Norms for Existing   accounts in relation to transfers to individual capitalization (new system) accounts; (ii)  including those for the functioning of  Consolidation process of
Funds                norms as to enforcing employer and employee contributions and payment systems; (iii)  FOPEBA.                                I
norms for minimum actuarial funding requirements; (iv) norms for merger, and (v)  Strategic objectives of the Govemment for  complementary pension
investment norms.                                                               existing funds announced in conjunction  unds  to      BA
with Supreme Decree.
Implementing norms issued by circular,
and being implemented and monitored.
Consolidation process of complementary
pension funds into FOPEBA begun.
Dev. of Investment   Multi-year transition program for Passive funds from equity to a mixed security portfolio  Supreme Decree issued providing norms  Norms under
Norms for passive    developed.                                                                       for passive funds.                      implementation.
funds                                                                                               Portfolio transition program issued via  Norms subject to review and
circular.                              revision based on
expenence.
Measures to        Audits undertaken for 12 complementary pension funds (based on data to 1986).   Norms issued to liquidate or merge 22    Consolidation process of
Restructure        Administrative restructuring of INASEP completed.                                  complementary pension funds;            complementary pension
Existing Funds                                                                                     Evaluation of Transfer Incentive begun per  funds into FOPEBA
individual account based on guidelines  under way.
issued in Supreme Decree.             Evaluation of Transfer
Begin implementation of program for the   Incentive continuing.
merger and liquidation of FCs into
FOPEBA.
Studies of Workers   Evaluation of existing workers compensation system undertaken.                 Recommendations developed for           Legislaton drafted and



17
Main         Project Component  Expected Output - 1995                                                             Expected Output - 1996                   Expected Output - 1997
Objectives    Activities
Compensation                                                                                         modification to existing legislation, existing   submitted to Congress.
organization of contributions and benefits.
Development of                                                                                       Design study initiated of consolidated data   Initiation of data analysis.
Database for                                                                                           base of demographic, economic and      Data used for regulatory
Management of                                                                                          actuarial data by fund member to effect  over-sight and is
Existing Funds                                                                                         the transition above.                    disseminated to
Data collection (from each FC) and data   complementary funds.
entry begun.
Automation of      Initial study undertaken of hardware and software requirements foT the operational and  Hardware and software purchased and
FOPEBA               financial management of FOPEBA.                                                   installed.
Information                                                                                          Operating procedures designed.
Management
Design and         Definition of                                                                     Superintendency begins functioning under   Ongoing review conducted
Development of     the organizational structure of the Superintendency of Pensions;                    Law.                                   of staffing, accounting and
Superintendency    -required personnel profile;                                                      Supervision of pension funds (operating)  financial control systems
of Pensions        terms of reference for key positions in the Superintendency;                        begins mid-year.                       and operating procedures in
specifications for the accounting and financial control system and design operating  Operating procedures for the risk    order to revise each
procedures;                                                                       classification commission defined.    according to experience.
-data base modules, including an investment module, management module and sales agents   Review conducted of staffing skill profile in
data base.                                                                       relationship to evolving needs.
Review conducted of implementation of
accounting and financial control system
Implementation of operating procedures
and development of procedures manual
begun;
Implementation of data base modules
begun and revised as necessary.
.    .    ~~Design of public infonnation campaign undertaken.
Public Infonmation                                                                                   Intemnational bidding process for public  Completion of public
Campaign                                                                                               information agency begun.             information campaign.
Initiation of execution of public
information campaign.
Computerization    Completion of detailed study to develop the specifications for the hardware, software and  Bidding documents for hardware and  Supplementary support
of Super-            peripherals needs. Output is technical specifications for international competitive bidding  software.                   provided for refining and
intendency of        for equipment.                                                                  Purchase of equipment including          upgrading the software
Pensions                                                                                               installation.,                         subsequent to initiation of
Software provided under agreement       its use.
reached between the Sup. of Pensions
and the Sup. of Pensions of Chile.
Select training of staff in equipment use
begun
Deferred     Trustee             Trustee for safekeeping of capitalized shares contracted.                         Transfer of capitalized shares to Trustee
Share        Arrangements                                                                                           Completed        d
Distribution                     Shares of two capitalized enterprises transfered to Trustee.                       Cusomplnested. sed
Progrrngmnsautoinesalihd



18
Main           Project Component   Expected Output - 1995                                                                      Expected Output - 1996                        Expected Output - 1997
Objectives     Activities
Intemational                                                                                                    AFPs selected by international bidding.
Bidding
Acceleration of the    Registro Unico Nacional RUN begins rural registration campaign using mobile units.       RUN registry underway, with completion       Registry data used to
Registry System.     Design of RUN acceleration program completed, including detailed projections of needs for    aimed at end-1 996.                          facilitate the assignment
increases in operating and capital expenditures.                                                                                       of pension fund managers
Passing of exception law facilitating registry process                                                                                   to each adult bolivian and
Advisors and contracted assistants hired to amplify and accelerate the process.                                                          to assign to each such
Intemational tender specifications for equipment needed including computers, identity                                                     pension fund the shares
card peripherals and data storage equipment.                                                                                           of each such Bolivian.
Design of the        Development of a detailed program for the share distribution program.                      Fiduciary Account system, including          Initiation of passbook
Distribution                                                                                                      account verification, reconciliation and     distrbution
Program                                                                                                           control.                                   Initiation of benefit
Detailed transfer system (from the             distnbution.
fiduciary account to AFP), including      Arrangements for consumer
mechanisms for random selection,              chasms And trang
verification of individual choice, account   mechanisms, and tracing
verification.                                control featires
Implementation plans for the distribution
of passbooks, including verification
mechanisms.
Mechanisms for distribution of benefits,
both urban and rural.
Initiation of the implementation of the
distribution system through the
placement of capitalized shares.
Strength-      Strengthening of      Recommendations for modifications to draft law concluded, including the drafting of       Securities Law passed by Congress.           Review and adoption of
ening Sec-     Legislation             amended language for inclusion.                                                          Implementation of the plan for the issuance   norms in accordance with
urities                              Draft Securities Law presented to Minister of Finance.                                       of norms.                                 market developments.
Regulation.                          Existing rulings reviewed to strengthen and conform them to the draft.                    Review and adoption of norms in
A plan for the issuancc of norms (rulings) established                                       accordance with market developments.
Institutional                                                                                                   Detailed institutional restructuring program    Restructuring plan fully
Restructuring                                                                                                     completed including: (i) assessment of       implemented.
current staff and future requirements. (ii)
preparation ofjob descriptions and
salary structure; (iii) support for budget
preparations (incliding fee setting) and
definition of procedures and manuals;
(iv) definition of supervision objectives
and criteria; (v) determination of
information requirements; (vi)
preparation of analysis procedures; and
(vii) preparation of on-site inspection
procedures.
Information                                                                                                     Design of specifications for hardware,       Implementation ofnew
software and peripherals completed.       systems procedures



19
Main          Project Component  Expected Output - 1995                                                                 Expected Output - 1996                    Expected Output - 1997
Objectives    Activities
Systems                                                                                                  Bidding and installation completed.       completed.
Specialized training initiated to improve
on-line links with exchanges and
brokerage firms.
Upgrading                                                                                                Consultants hired and work begun to       Manuals for examination
Supervision and                                                                                            prepare: (i) manuals for examination      procedures completed and
Inspection                                                                                                 procedures of brokerage firms and         implementation begun.
Procedures                                                                                                 bourses; (ii) revise charter of accounts  Revised charter of accounts
for exchanges and brokerage houses; (iii)    for exchanges and
a manual for financial analysis of        brokerage houses
brokerage houses; and (iv) guidelines to  completed and issued.
assess quality of issue proposals.     Manual for financial
analysis of brokerage
houses issued.
Guidelines issued to assess
quality of issue proposals.
Development of                                                                                           Work initiated to: (i) work with the      Modify charter of accounts
Auditing and                                                                                               accounting profession to develop          in accordance with
Accounting                                                                                                 accounting standards for publicly listed  market developments.
Standards                                                                                                  firms, investment banks, brokerage      Implement revised extemnal
houses, bourses and agents; (ii) establish  audit norms.
through a CNV ruling a standardized
charter of accounts established for
issuers to improve the presentation of
financial data; and (iv) issue revised
extemnal audit norms for publicly-listed
firms, investment banks, brokerage
houses, bourses and agents.
Market              Program begun to: (i) support Economic Studies Department in the CNV to gather, analyze   Capacity of the Economic Studies
Development and       and distribute statistical information, bulletins, etc; and (ii) organize seminars,  Department in the CNV improved to
Promotion             conferences and workshops to promote the value of securities markets to both issuers  gather, process and distribute statistical
and investors.                                                                      information.
Norms issued for approval and regulation
of a central depository and clearing
system.
Central depository and clearing system
established and subject to refinement.
Strength-     Development of      Diagnostic of non-banking financial institutions completed.                          Procedures for liquidation of financial   Regulations for non-
ening of      Norms                                                                                                    institutions approved and in place.       banking financial
Banking                                                                                                                Regulations for non-banking financial     insttutions in place.
Supervision                                                                                                            institutions completed.                   Regulations for financial
Regulations for financial services       servlces Institutions In
institutions completed.                   Rules and procedures for
Rules and procedures for financial       financial institutions in
institutions in crisis completed.         nsis in place.



20
Main          Project Component  Expected Output - 1995                                                            Expected Output - 1996                   Expected Output - 1997
Objectives    Activities
Rules and procedures for supervision of  Rules and procedures for
financial conglomerates completed.       supervision of financial
conglomerates in place.
Regulations for risk
assessment companies
completed.
Norms for new banking
financial instruments
updated and in place.
Improved           Updated inspection and financial analysis manuals.                                Implementation of recommendations of
operational                                                                                            updated manuals.
systems                                                                                              Evaluation of of inspections and external
audits to financial institutions and
implementation of conclusions.
Evaluation of portfolio analysis and
I  implementation of conclusions.
Strengthening of    Technical specifications for second-generation of hardware and software for the stand-  Installation begun.               Installation completed.
Operating            alone and networked system completed.                                           Implementation begun.
Software           Hardware purchased.



21
SCHEDULE TWO
BOLIVIA - FINANCIAL MARKETS AND PENSION REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TRAINING PLAN
Objectives/    Project         Training Mode         Design/Delivery & Monitoring of Training Activities - 1996   Design/Delivery and  Expected Results of Training
Components    Component                                                                                    Monitoring of Training
Activities                                                                                  Activities - 1997
Superinten-    Operations,     Local, On-the-job and   Complete detailed traming in the functioning and financial    Assistance through long  Staff capable of applying the operating procedures ofthe Sup. de
dency of       Monitoring and   overseas short term    operation ofthe pesion's individual capitalization share  and short-term      Pensiones and utilizing computerized monitoring and control
Pensions       Financial       twinning                system in the areas of.() operations, (b) benefits, (c)  consultants in       procedures. Along with the twinning visits, this would result in
Control         arrangements.           investments, and (d) systems development, and         monitoring, fmancial    trained staff in the areas of
implementing short term twinning arrangements with the  control, and analytical
Developing                                             Superintendency of Pensions in Chile.                 techniques.             (i) Operations - management of individual accounts, affiliations,
Institutional                                                                                                                        overdues, transfers, payments, payments due, operational
Capacity for                                                                                                                         accounting, and accounting for the contributory fund. Persons
Pension                                                                                                                              trained would include I analyst and I assistant.
Supervision if
and when                                                                                                                             (ii) Investments - investment limits and guidelines, portfolio
legislation is                                                                                                                       management, duration, rate or retum analysis, valuation of
enacted and                                                                                                                          domestic instruments, and risk classification. Persons trained
training                                                                                                                             would include 2 assistants and I analyst.
implementing                                                                                                                         (iii) Benefits and Insurance - Methodologies to calculate old age
agencies in                                                                                                                          and disability benefits based on legal provisions. Trained staff. 2
distribution                                                                                                                         analysts and 2 assistants.
system and
financial                                                                                                                            (iv) Systems: Training in analysis and utilization of computer
control.                                                                                                                             systems for the control of the individual share capitalization
system. Staff trained: I analyst & I assistant.
Training in     Local, On-the-job,    Design and delivery through the Secretariat of Pensions.                        Staff capable of tracking and detecting risks of AFPs OR funds, to
prudential      attendance at overseas   Assistance through long- and short-term consultants in the implementation of prudential  apply judgements as to violations of the law /regulations, and to
standards       seminars                standards.                                                                   track activities of participants in accordance with the law.
Use of          On-the-job and        Undertake training of specialized systems staff by    Continuation of previous  Systems analysts trained in latest methodologies for modeling of
Mainframe and   overseas short term     intemational experts in the areas of (a) software     system training and     processes under extended relational database systems, as well as
Database        twinning visits.        engineering, (b) database modeling and design, and (c)  adding relational     object oriented programming and expert systems. Trained staff
Computer                                UNIX operating systems for database administration.   database management    include I analyst and I assistant for training in Chile, and 20 staff
Techniques                                                                                    tools including         members on-site.
ORACLE - INFORMIX
for both basic and
advanced levels.
Comnunicatio   Local, on -the-job.    Traiing ofpersonnel inthe areas of control and                                  Have staff fully trained and functional in the areas of(i) design of
ns and Public                          dissemination of information, including a course provided                       standard formats for information distribution, (ii) implementation
Infornation                            by an intemational expert.                                                      of adequate controls for dissemination of infomiation. Staff
trained: I analyst & I assistant.
Marketing of    Overseas trips.       Evaluation of viability of marketing capitalization shares in                   The relevant personnel will posses the knowledge to utilize
capitalization                         the London market and other European markets, including                         established instruments and mechanisms to register the
shares                                 (a) organizing personal interviews in coordination with the                     distribution of shares and to establish marketing mechanisms. 2
British consulate, on (i) directives of the London Stock                       staff would be trained.



22
Objectives/    Project           Training Mode          Design/Delivery & Monitoring of Training Activities - 1996    Design/Delivery and   Expected Results of Training
Components    Component                                                                                          Monitoring of Training
Activities                                                                                       Activities - 1997
Exchange, (ii) potential investors, (iii) intermediaries and
promoters, and (b) contacting the EEC to follow same
agenda.
Basic Pension    On-the-job plus        Training of local staff in new functions after organizational    Training in reform of and  (a) 20 staff to be trained and functional in new modules under
Fund             extemal visits.         restructuring o the institution, in each of the new system  new system of          restructured agency.
(FOPEBA)                                 modules covered through courses on the integrated        professional risks,
information system given by local and internat.         including local courses   (b) 100 staff to be trained and operative in information
consultants.                                            with int. instruction.,   dissemination.
Training in communications and control of information   Training in operation of
dissemination of FOPEBA, to be given by international   the Recognition Bond      (c) 6 staff to be trained and to formulate draft law and
expert.                                                 unit and calculation      implementation on system of professional risks.
thereof.                 (d) 6 staff trained locally and 2 in Chile, on implementation of
Recognition Bond unit and fmnalizing calculations thereof
National         Local, on-the-job.     Training of staff in new functions of institution following                         Trained staff will perform (i) technical uniform operation of the
Institute of                             organizational restructuring, including new modules of the                          system in implementing agencies, (ii) Unifonm management of
Insurance and                            system. To be provided by local and extemal consultants.                            financial information in implementing units, and (iii) operation of
Pensions                                                                                                                     systemic modules. 20 stafftrained.
(INASEP)
Strengthe-     Upgrading        Local, On-the-job,      Development of training       Initiation of on-the-job training programn emphasizing:  Staff capable of tracking and detecting risks of bourses, brokers
ning           Supervision       work assignments at     program for CNV Staff with      (i) identification of main risks in securities trading; anagtscorigothlw,mpenigrgutosad
Securities     and Inspection    other Latinwmerican     CNV management assistance.      (ii) financial analysis of issuers, agents and brokers;  and agents acoding t  o tementi  regulations end
Supervision    Procedures and   regulators, overseas                                     (iii) examtnination procedures; and (iv) exchanges with  judgements as to violations of the intent of the law or
and Regula-    Techniques        seminars                                                international specialists,                           regulations, in terms of required solvency, transparency, safe and
tion if and                                                                                                                                   sound securities practices.
when
legislation is
enacted.
Information      On-the-job             Development of training        Training in use of                                   Staff capable of using automated oversight systems to track market
Systems                                   program with CNV               oversight monitoring                                 movements and monitor behavior of brokers and agents. Staff
management assistance.         systems developed                                    should also be able to use systems in the analysis of issuers,
and use of data                                     bourses, brokers and agents.
processing techniques.
Auditing and     Local, On-the-job      Development of training        Training in accounting standards for issuers, bourses,  Staffcapable of applying accounting standards established and of
Accounting                                program with CNV               agents and brokers in accordance with accounts       using such standards for the sake of prudential assessment.
Standards                                 management assistance.         manual issued and circulars issued.
Market           Local, On-the-job,,    Development of training        Training in the                                      Staff capable of understanding the cause and effect relationships in
Development      work assignments at      program with CNV               economics of market                                  market developments including forecasting. Staff also able to
and Promotion    other Latinamerican      management assistance.         transactions and in the                              foresee evolutions of transactions in a dynamic marketplace.
regulators, overseas                                    dynamics of market
seminars                                                development.
Prudential       Local, On-the-job,,    Development of training        Training in prudential risks in securities transactions;  Staff capable of disceming prudential risks and applying remedial
Norms            work assignments at      program with CNV               application of prudential standards established by   measures. Staff able to discem risks in line with market
other Latinamerican      management assistance.         regulations; early-warning detection techniques; and  development.
regulators, overseas                                    application of preventive and punitive measures.
seminars



23
Objectives/      Project            1raining Mode            Design'Delivery & Monitoring of T raining Activities - 1996    Design/Delivery and           Expected Results of Training
Components       Component                                                                                                  Monitoring of Training
Activities                                                                                                Activities- 1997
Strength-        Training of        Local, Inteniational,    On-the job inspector training in credit analysis techniques, including credit risk
ening of         Inspectors         overseas courses, On-      assessment, cash flow analysis, collateral valuation, assessment of business and
Bancing                             the-job.                   sectoral risks: risks of financial investments.
Supervision
Training of        Local, Intemational,     Course program to be              Training on credit assessment with special emphasis on    Financial Analysts able to forecast financial institution solvencv
Financial         On-the-job,                 developed by SBEF                 financial projections, interest rate risks, refunding      and profitability and discern tendencies so as to effect an
Analysts          attendance at overseas      management in association         (liquidity) risk, sectoral risks, effects of              effective early waning system.
courses.                   with SBEF human resources         macroecotiomic risks on financial institution solvency    Analysts able to discem the risks of increasingly complex
coordinator                       and profitability; risks of financial derivatives;        exposures to capital markets instruments and actors.
interest rate risk, off-shore risks and off-balance sheet
risks.



24
SCHEDULE THREE
BOLIVIA - FINANCIAL MARKETS AND PENSION REFORM
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
BANK STAFF INPUTS FOR PROJECT SUPERVISION TO 1998
Approximate        Activity                        Anticipated               Input
Date                                               Skill Requirements       in staff
weeks
01/96        Supervision Mission/Project Launch
Review contracts underway and project    Financial Analyst      2
unit accounting/reporting systems     Banking Specialist        2
Review consultant TORs/tasks underway
Review legal and regulatory progress
Review institution-building measures to
develop Pensions Superintendency
Review banking system component
01/96-06/96  Headquarters Supervision Work
Review of contracts, implementation   Financial Economist       8
targets,subcomponent budgets,         Financial Analyst         7
performance reports
07/96       Supervision Mission
Review project targets versus         Pensions Specialist       2
implementation plan                   Banking Specialist        2
Review procurement/disbursement
Review draft regulatory provisions for
all financial sector components
Review progress in implementing share
distribution system
Review arrangements for setting up
FOPEBA and status of Pension
Superintendency
Review institution-building measures for
Superintendency of Banks
07/96-12/96  Headquarters Supervision Work
Review of consultant T.A. results     Financial Economist       8
including institutional set up for    Financial Analyst         7
FOPEBA, share distribution system;



25
review of contracts.
01/97       Supervision Mission
Review institutional development of the    Financial Sector Specialist  2
Comisi6n Nacional de Valores         Pensions Specialist       2
Review implementation of regulatory
provisions for pension fund managers
Review bidding for pension fund managers
Review capitalization share distribution
system
Review implementation of FOPEBA and
merger of complementary funds.
01/97-06/97  Headquarters Supervision Work
Review of contracts, implementation  Financial Economist       8
targets,subcomponent budgets,        Financial Analyst         7
performance reports, and disbursement
performance.
07/97-12/97  Headquarters Supervision Work
Review of AFP regulations and imple-  Financial Economist      8
mentation of CNV and Banking regulations Financial Analyst     7
consistent under SIREFI structure; review
of contracts and consultant T.A. results
07/97-07/98  Three Supervision Missions
Review progress in implementation of  Financial Sector Specialist  6
regulatory directives, institution   Banking Specialist       6
building measures, and AFP set-up
01/98-12/98  Headquarters Supervision Work
Review of bidding process and handover   Financial Analyst     15
of pension accounts to private AFPs,  Financial Economist      15
review of documented financial control
measures ensuring security and segregation
of contributory & non-contributory
accounts.
12/98       Final Supervision Mission
Review of pension reform implementation,  Financial Analyst    2
and establishment of AFPs and FOPEBA,  Financial Sector/
targets met under CNV and Banking    Pension Spec.             2
sector






MAP SECTION






IBRD 2051
B  R  A    Z  I L       ,B    L  I V   I A
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To P&a*aaS@cnnr
To Rio 8Ornic          -5ar-----/-6<<--   T-aks
/   7                      GuajordUirim   ars
<'Riber~~~~~~~ItVj~Ri
P E R U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pi r
\ /4       $    , /                                            -Deps~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dprtment Baurdare as  i
ir~~~~ -  7SA 77                       77N 'L                    - _-  -;                            asre:a Bacadar  >X   rn    ,s84s 
01109X~Z   h|nZ0 j 'II>  -2ZI
1~~~~~
A  Sd  Asorrra Rosa 7                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 50  ma'nM  00  250
. ~ ~ ~     ~~~~~         ~~~          ~ ~~         ~ ~~~            ~       ~      ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ so /0  50t+/     .W St
\ r                                            -(ARGENTINA  7
p-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7'
Tont l                                                                                                                 NT      (  S ,,RUG,UAYT-
I                T                 i   l .Ror.>5mrc bP  >   -'  .-. . 
T.~ ~~~~~~~(                    c           n ECA~Oiasocr                         
T, l..4o 8









-3                          !- I_ 
-!      -        ~            -w
. .   II,                    ,.1 
1-t
r I 
-1
I,--
rrl



