Page  1
July 11, 1997
His Excellency 
Fernando Candía Castillo 
Minister of Finance 
Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso 19 
La Paz, Bolivia
Excellency:
Re:
Financial Markets and Persion Reform Technical Assistance Project
 
(Cr. 2789 - BO) - Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Please refer to the Credit Agreement for the above captioned Project.  
I am pleased to advise you that, pursuant to your request and our recent 
discussions of the subject, the Association has agreed to amend the Credit Agreement 
so as to reflect the disappearance of the Ministry of Capitalization and the 
assumption of its executing responsibilities by other agencies or departments of the 
Borrower, as follows:
1.
Section 1.02 (l) is deleted. Consequently, all references to "MOC" are deleted; 
the corresponding sentences are adjusted accordingly so as to preserve the meaning of 
the remaining text.
2.
The following paragraphs are added at the end of Section 1.02:
"(x)
"‘SIREFI’ means the Borrower’s Superintendencia de Regulación del 
Sector Financiero; 
(y)
"SIREFI Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and SIREFI pursuant to the provisions of Section 
3.02 of this Agreement; and
(z)
"SOP Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and SOP pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
this Agreement.".
3.
Section 3.01 (a) is amended to read as follows:
"Section 3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall:
(a)
carry out: 
(i)
Part A of the Project through SOP; and
(ii)
Part B of the Project through SIREFI,
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, 
financial, administrative and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the 
Project;".
4.
Section 3.02 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 3.02.  (a) The Borrower shall transfer to CNV, SOP, SBEF and 
SIREFI, on a grant basis, the portion of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
to Parts C, A, D and B of the Project, respectively, under subsidiary to be 
entered into between the Borrower and CNV, SOP, SBEF and SIREFI, respectively, 
all 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not amend, assign, abrogate, suspend, terminate, waive or fail to 
enforce the CNV Subsidiary Agreement, the SOP Subsidiary Agreement, the SBEF 
Subsidiary Agreement or the SIREFI Subsidiary Agreement or any provision 
Page  2
thereof."
5.
Section 3.04 (a) is amended to read as follows: 
"Section 3.04.  (a) The Borrower shall establish within SIREFI, and 
thereafter operate and maintain during Project implementation, a Project 
coordinating unit with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the 
Association, which shall include, inter alia, the responsibility to assist the 
Borrower in coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Project.".
6.
Section 3.05 is amended to read as follows: 
"Section 3.05.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.06 of 
the General Conditions, not later than July 30 and January 31 of each year 
during Project implementation, starting in 1996, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association, a semiannual report of such scope and in such 
detail 
as the Association may reasonably request with respect to the progress 
made by CNV, 
SOP, SBEF and SIREFI in carrying out the Parts of the Project 
under their 
responsibility during the calendar semester preceding the date of  presentation of the 
report in question.".
7.
Section 4.01 (a) is amended to read as follows:
"Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance 
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for the carrying out of the Project or any part thereof.".
8.
Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 4.02  (a) The Borrower shall cause CNV, SOP, SBEF and SIREFI 
under the CNV Subsidiary Agreement, the SOP Subsidiary Agreement, the SBEF 
Subsidiary Agreement and the SIREFI Agreement, as the case may be, to maintain 
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures of CNV, SOP, 
SBEF and SIREFI, in respect of Parts C, A, D and B of the Project, 
respectively.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause CNV, SOP, SBEF and SIREFI under the CNV 
Subsidiary Agreement, the SOP Subsidiary Agreement, the SBEF Subsidiary 
Agreement and the SIREFI Subsidiary Agreement, as the case may be, to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.".
9.
Section 4.03 is amended to read as follows: 
"Section 4.03.  The Borrower shall cause CNV, SOP, SBEF and SIREFI under 
the CNV Subsidiary Agreement, the SOP Subsidiary Agreement, the SBEF 
Subsidiary Agreement and the SIREFI Subsidiary Agreement, as the case may be, 
to 
carry out their operations and conduct their affairs in accordance with 
sound 
technical, financial, administrative and environmental practices under 
the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff 
in adequate numbers."
10.
Sections 5.01 (a) and (b) are amended to read as follows:
"Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, 
the following additional events are specified:
Page  3
(a)
That CNV, SOP, SBEF or SIREFI shall have failed to comply with 
any of its obligations under the CNV Subsidiary Agreement or the 
SOP 
Subsidiary Agreement or the SBEF Subsidiary Agreement or the SIREFI Subsidiary 
Agreement, or any provision thereof, as the case may be.
(b)
That the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall 
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CNV, SOP, 
SBEF or SIREFI or for the suspension of the operations of any of such 
entities."
11.
The first paragraph of Schedule 2 is amended to read as follows:
"The objective of the Project is to strengthen the institutional 
framework and capacity of CNV, SOP, SBEF and SIREFI to: (a) operate and 
regulate pension funds and securities markets; and (b) regulate and supervise 
banking and financial activities, in Bolivia.".
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter shall be executed in 
two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.  The 
provisions of this amendment letter will become effective as of the date of this 
letter once:
(a)
the Association receives one fully executed original of this amendment 
letter; 
(b)
the SOP Subsidiary Agreement and the SIREFI Subsidiary Agreement have 
been signed by the respective parties as provided in Section 3.02 (a) of the Credit 
Agreement, as amended by this Letter-Agreement; and 
(c)
the Association has received an opinion or opinions, of counsel 
acceptable to the Association, showing that the SOP Subsidiary Agreement and the 
SIREFI Subsidiary Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and 
SOP, and the Borrower and SIREFI, respectively, and that each such agreement is 
legally binding upon the Borrower and SOP, and the Borrower and SIREFI, respectively. 
Because of their interest in this matter I am forwarding copy of this Amendment Letter 
to the Comisión Nacional de Valores, the Superintendent of Banks and Financial 
Entities, the Superintendent of Pensions and the Superintendent of Financial Sector 
Regulation. 
Very truly yours,
Isabel Guerrero
Director 
Country Department Unit for Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru 
Latin America and the Caribbean
CONFIRMED
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By _____________________
Authorized Representative
Date July 30, 1997
