Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2789-BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Financial Markets and Pension Reform
Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 28, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2789-BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 28, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 with the modifications set forth 
below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
Page  2
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.".
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"AFP" means  a private pension fund management entity (Administradora de 
Fondos de Pensiones);
(b)
"Banking Law" means Law No. 1488 (Ley No. 1488) of the Borrower dated 
April 14, 1993 published in the Borrower's Official Gazette (Gaceta Oficial) on May 3, 
1993 as such Law has been amended to the date of this Agreement;
(c)
"BCB" means the Borrower's Central Bank (Banco Central de Bolivia);
 
(d)
"Capitalization Law" means Law No. 1544 (Ley No. 1544) of the Borrower 
dated March 21, 1994 published in the Borrower's Official Gazette (Gaceta Oficial) on 
March 22, 1994 as such Law has been amended to the date of this Agreement;
(e)
"CNV" means the Borrower's Securities and Exchange Commission (Comision 
Nacional de Valores) established pursuant to Decree Law No. 16995 (Decreto Ley No. 
16995) of the Borrower
dated August 2, 1979;
(f)
"CNV Subsidiary Agreement" means the corresponding agreement referred to 
in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(g)
"Contributory Accounts" means the accounts to be managed by the AFPs into 
which the mandatory contributions of eligible contributors to such AFPs will be 
deposited in accordance with the Pension Law;
(h)
"Deferred Share Distribution Accounts" means the accounts into which the 
shares of the six enterprises to be capitalized (in accordance with the Capitalization 
Law - Law No. 1544 of the Borrower dated March 21, 1994 published in the Official 
Gazette (Gaceta Oficial) on March 22, 1994) shall be deposited;
(i)
"FOPEBA" means the Borrower's Basic Pension Fund (Fondo de Pensiones 
Basicas) established pursuant to Decree No. 22407 (Decreto Supremo No. 22407) dated 
January 11, 1990;
(j)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Association setting forth the Project indicators;
(k)
"INASEP" means the Borrower's National Institute of Pensions (Instituto 
Nacional de Seguros de Pensiones) established pursuant to Decree No. 23716 (Decreto 
Supremo No. 23716) of the Borrower dated January 15, 1994;
(l)
"MOC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Capitalization (Ministerio de 
Capitalizacion);
(m)
"PCU" means the unit referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
 
(n)
"Pension Law" means the law, which will, inter alia, establish a private 
pension system, to be enacted (as provided by Part C.3 of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement
entered into between the Borrower and the Association dated July 7, 1995);
(o)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a Letter of Agreement dated 
September 16, 1994 duly countersigned by the Borrower's representative on October 7, 
1994;
(p)
"RUN" means the Borrower's National Registry System (Registro Unico 
Nacional);
(q)
"SBEF" means the Borrower's Superintendency of Banks and Financial 
Page  3
Entities (Superintendencia de Bancos y Entidades Financieras) established pursuant to 
Decree No. 21660 (Decreto Supremo No. 21660) of the Borrower dated August 19, 1987;
(r)
"SBEF Subsidiary Agreement" means the corresponding agreement referred to 
in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(s)
"Sectoral Pension Funds" means pension funds (other than FOPEBA) which 
collect contributions from, and provide benefits to, its members, regulated by Decree 
Law No. 10173
(Decreto Ley No. 10173) of the Borrower dated March 28, 1972;
(t)
"Service Contracts" means expenditures made in connection with: (i) the 
fees of the Trustee mentioned in Part B.1 of the Project; and (ii) the information 
campaign referred to in Part A.9 of the Project;
(u)
"SOP" means the Borrower's Superintendency of Pensions to be created by 
the Pension Law;
(v)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(w)
"Trustee" means a financial entity acceptable to the Borrower which will 
carry out fiduciary duties with respect to the shares of the six enterprises to be 
capitalized in accordance with the Capitalization Law.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01.  The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to six million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 6,100,000).
Section 2.02.  (a)  The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in BCB on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
Page  4
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15 commencing April 15, 2006 and ending October 15, 2035.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on October 15, 2015 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:  (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and 
after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the 
Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment 
of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment 
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under 
the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall:
(a)
carry out Parts A and B of the Project through MOC, with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, financial, administrative 
and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project;
(b)
(i) cause CNV to carry out Part C of the Project; and (ii) cause SBEF to 
carry out Part D of the Project, pursuant to subsidiary agreements (as referred to in 
Section 3.02 of this Agreement), all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate technical, financial, administrative and environmental 
practices, and shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable CNV and SBEF to carry out Parts C and D of the Project, 
respectively, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with the carrying out of such Parts of the Project; and
(c)
without limitation to paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the Borrower shall, 
and shall cause CNV and SBEF to, carry out the Parts of the Project under their 
responsibility in accordance with the Project indicators set forth in the 
Implementation Letter.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall transfer to CNV and SBEF, on a grant basis, 
Page  5
the portion of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Parts C and D, respectively, 
under subsidiary agreements (the CNV Subsidiary Agreement and the SBEF Subsidiary 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and CNV and the Borrower and SBEF, 
all under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
amend, assign, abrogate, suspend, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the CNV 
Subsidiary Agreement and the SBEF Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall establish within MOC, and thereafter 
operate and maintain during Project implementation, a Project coordinating unit (the 
PCU) with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, which shall 
include, inter alia, the  responsibility to assist the Borrower in coordinating and 
monitoring the implementation of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the PCU is at all times headed by a 
Project coordinator assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications 
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.06 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall not later than July 30 and January 31 of each 
year during Project implementation, starting in 1996, prepare and furnish to the 
Association, a semiannual report of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
may reasonably request with respect to the progress made by the Borrower, CNV and SBEF 
in carrying out the Parts of the Project under their responsibility during the 
calendar semester preceding the date of presentation of the report in question.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures of MOC in respect of Parts A and 
B of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
Page  6
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause CNV and SBEF under the CNV Subsidiary 
Agreement and the SBEF Subsidiary Agreement, as the case may be, to maintain records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures of CNV and SBEF in respect of 
Parts C and D of the Project, respectively.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause CNV and SBEF under the CNV Subsidiary Agreement 
and the SBEF Subsidiary Agreement, as the case may be, to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause CNV and SBEF under the CNV Subsidiary 
Agreement and the SBEF Subsidiary Agreement, as the case may be, to carry out their 
operations and conduct their affairs in accordance with sound technical, financial, 
administrative and environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
That CNV or SBEF shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations 
under the CNV Subsidiary Agreement or the SBEF Subsidiary Agreement, as the case may 
be.
(b)
That the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have 
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CNV or SBEF or for the 
suspension of the operations of any of such entities.
(c)
That the Pension Law or the Banking Law or any provision thereof or the 
legal frameworks to be established pursuant to paragraph 3 (c) and (d) of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or 
not enforced in such a manner so as to affect, in the opinion of the Association, the 
achievement of the objectives of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
Page  7
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
that the PCU has been duly established and its coordinator has been 
appointed, as provided in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(b)
that the CNV Subsidiary Agreement and the SBEF Subsidiary Agreement have 
been signed by the respective parties as provided in Section 3.02 (a) of this 
Agreement; and
(c)
that the Borrower has furnished to the Association a report, satisfactory 
to the Association, describing the operation of the system established pursuant to 
Article 7 of the Capitalization Law.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the CNV Subsidiary 
Agreement and the SBEF Subsidiary Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and CNV, and the Borrower and SBEF, respectively, and that each such 
agreement is legally binding upon the Borrower and CNV, and the Borrower and SBEF, 
respectively.
Section 6.03. The date June 26, 1996 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and 
determine on the date on which this Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty 
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier. 
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Ministerio de Hacienda
Centro de Comunicaciones Piso 19
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
Casilla Postal No. 9917
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANZA
2617 (FINANZA BV)
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
Page  8
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Fernando Cossio
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Paul Isenman
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                  Amount of the
                                     Credit               % of
                                    Allocated         Expenditures
                                  (Expressed in           to be
          Category               SDR Equivalent)        Financed
(1)   Goods under:                                    100% of foreign
                                                      expenditures,
      (a) Part A.4 of               260,000           100% of local
          the Project                                 expenditures
                                                      (ex-factory cost)
      (b) the other Parts           710,000           and 84% of local
          of the Project                              expenditures for
                                                      other items
                                                      procured locally
(2)   Consultants'                                    100%
      Services under:
      (a) Parts A.2                 700,000
          and A.10 of
          the Project
      (b) Part C.1 of                30,000
          the Project
      (c) Part D.2 of                50,000
          the Project
      (d) the Project             2,120,000
          other than under
          Parts A.2, A.10,
          C.1 and D.2 of the
          Project
(3)   Training under:                                 100%
Page  9
      (a) Part A.11 of               30,000
          the Project
      (b) the other                 270,000
          Parts of
          the Project
(4)   Service Contracts             320,000           100% of foreign
                                                      expenditures and
                                                      84% of local
                                                      expenditures
(5)   Refunding of                1,340,000           Amounts due
      Project                                         pursuant to
      Preparation                                     Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                         of this Agreement
(6)   Unallocated                   270,000
             TOTAL                6,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Training" means expenditures made in connection with the 
training activities under the Project, including the per diems and travel costs of the 
trainees and the cost of the training materials required therefor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
 
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (a), (2) (a) and (3) 
(a) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the SOP has been established 
with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Category (2) (b) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless a legal framework for the securities market, 
satisfactory to the Association, has been established; and
(d)
payments made for expenditures under Category (2) (c) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless: (i) the Borrower has met the conditions referred 
to in paragraph 3 (b) and (c) of this Schedule; and (ii) legal frameworks for the 
insurance sector and BCB, satisfactory to the Association, have been established.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods 
not exceeding $25,000 equivalent to be awarded under Part C.1 of Section I of Schedule 
3 to this Agreement with the exception of the first contract to be awarded under such 
Part; (b) contracts for the employment of consulting firms costing less than $30,000 
equivalent; (c) contracts for the employment of individual consultants costing less 
than $30,000 equivalent; and (d) Training (excluding expenditures for the employment 
of trainers), all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the institutional framework and 
capacity of MOC, CNV and SBEF to: (a) operate and regulate pension funds and 
securities markets; and (b) regulate and supervise banking and financial activities, 
in Bolivia.
Page  10
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Pensions Reform
 
1.
Design of an organizational structure for SOP.
 
2.
Drafting of regulations for the Pension Law.
 
3.
Design of a computerized system to enable SOP to carry out its functions and 
responsibilities.
4.
Acquisition and utilization of goods required to implement the system referred 
to in Part A.3 above.
5.
Drafting of norms and regulations to enable INASEP to carry out its control 
functions with respect to Sectoral Pension Funds and FOPEBA.
6.
Redefinition of the structure of benefits provided by FOPEBA.
 
7.
Drafting of norms to enable the carrying out of a merger between FOPEBA and the 
Sectoral Pension Funds.
8.
Design of bidding procedures for the selection of AFPs in order that such AFPs 
manage the Deferred Share Distribution Accounts and the Contributory Accounts, 
including the design of norms and procedures to manage such accounts.
9.
Design and carrying out of a campaign in Bolivia to inform the population with 
respect to the changes in the legislation resulting from the enactment of the Pension 
Law.
10.
Design of procedures for SOP in order to enable SOP to carry out its functions 
in accordance with the organizational structure referred to in Part A.1 above, 
including, inter alia, the design of guidelines to implement the system referred to in 
Part A.3 above.
11.
Provision of training to the personnel of SOP with respect to the functions and 
responsibilities of SOP.
12.
Design of a new organizational structure for INASEP, including the design of 
procedures to enable INASEP to carry out its functions.
13.
Provision of technical assistance to FOPEBA in the carrying out of its merger 
with the Sectoral Pension Funds.
14.
Design of a computerized data base for FOPEBA to enable FOPEBA to carry out its 
functions.
15.
Provision of training to the personnel of INASEP with respect to: (a) the 
functions and responsibilities of INASEP; and (b) the new organizational structure 
referred to in Part A.12 above.
16.
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of FOPEBA through the provision of 
technical assistance and training required therefor.
17.
Design of a system to determine the current pension liabilities of FOPEBA and 
the Sectoral Pension Funds.
18.
Carrying out of a review of Bolivia's workers compensation system, including the 
development of proposals to improve such system.
Part B:
Capitalization Program
 
1.
Design and implementation of mechanisms to administer the shares of the six 
enterprises to be capitalized in accordance with the Capitalization Law and which will 
be deposited with the Trustee until such shares have been assigned to the AFPs.
2.
Design of rules and procedures to implement a cash distribution system for the 
benefits resulting from the administration of the Deferred Share Distribution 
Accounts, including the design and distribution of a manual which would set forth such 
rules and procedures.
Page  11
3.
Acquisition and utilization of the equipment for RUN to carry out its functions.
 
4.
Carrying out of a study on the possibility of creating an entity that would, 
inter alia, coordinate the activities of the entities that regulate the financial 
system in Bolivia.
Part C:
Securities Regulation
 
1.
Provision of technical assistance to CNV to assist CNV in the drafting and 
issuance of the required CNV's circulars and rulings in accordance with the legal 
framework to be established pursuant to paragraph 3(c) of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
2.
Carrying out of an institutional restructuring of CNV. 
 
3.
Design of procedures to enable CNV to carry out its functions.
 
4.
Design and implementation of an information system in order to enable CNV to 
carry out its monitoring functions, including the acquisition and utilization of the 
necessary equipment and the provision of training required therefor.
5.
Provision of training to CNV's personnel with respect to the functions and 
responsibilities of CNV.
6.
Design of a program to develop and promote the securities market in Bolivia.
 
Part D:
Institutional Strengthening of SBEF
 
1.
Provision of training to SBEF's personnel with respect to the functions and 
responsibilities of SBEF.
2.
Carrying out of a review of the regulations to the Banking Law in order to 
propose changes to such regulations, such changes to be based on the Pension Law and 
the legal frameworks to be established pursuant to paragraph 3(c) and (d) of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement.
3.
Carrying out of a review and modification, if needed, of the policies and 
procedures applicable to: (a) financial institutions which are in a critical financial 
situation; and (b) non-banking financial institutions.
4.
Carrying out of a review of SBEF's internal organization and policies and 
procedures and modification, if needed, of such internal organization, policies and 
procedures.
5.
Design of a plan to improve SBEF's institutional capacity. 
 
6.
Strengthening of SBEF's information system to enable SBEF to carry out its 
functions.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30,1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Page  12
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of contracts
 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $25,000 each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $250,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods to be awarded under Part B.1 of 
this Section; and (b) the first contract to be awarded under Part C.1 of this Section, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services (including Service Contracts and the employment of 
trainers under the Project) shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such  
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $30,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Association review 
shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source 
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms raising the contract value to $30,000 equivalent or above; (e) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
contract value to $30,000 equivalent or above; (f) Service Contracts; or (g) the 
employment of trainers under the Project.
Page  13
Section III.    Special Provisions for the Employment of Consultants
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines,the following principles and rules of 
procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of consultants's services referred 
to in Section II of this Schedule:
1.
Foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for participating in the selection 
process,be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local consultants.
2.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to legalize their proposals or any 
documentation related to such proposals with Bolivian authorities as a prerequisite 
for participating in the selection procedure.
3.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered in the Registro 
Nacional de Consultoria (National Registry of Consultants) or any other registry as a 
prerequisite for participating in the selection procedure.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories, in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $900,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals [from the Credit Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions] shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $3,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
Page  14
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
