Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H507-GW 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Economic Governance Reform Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 13, 2009 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H507-GW 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated July 13, 2009, entered into between the REPUBLIC OF 
GUINEA-BISSAU (
“Recipient”) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the Recipient’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association 
therefore hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to five 
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,400,000) 
(“Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
Page  3
2
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any 
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6. 01. 
The Recipient
’s Representative is the Minister for Economy, Plan and Regional 
Integration. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Av. Amilcar Cabral no. 37  
Caixa Postal No. 6 
Bissau 
Republica da Guinea-Bissau 
 
Facsimile: 245-320-48-46 
Page  4
3
6.03. The 
Association
’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
AGREED at Dakar, Senegal, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU 
 
By: /s/ 
M. Fali Embaló 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By: /s/ Habib M. Fetini 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under 
 
the Program include the following: 
1. 
Improvement of Public Financial Management
(a) 
The Recipient’s Council of Ministers has adopted the draft Organic 
Decree-Law for Budget and Public Accounting Decree as reflected in the 
Minutes of the Council of Ministers’ meetings (
Comunicado do 
Governo)
 on
April 2, 2009 and May 8, 2009 respectively. 
(b) 
The elaboration and execution modules of the SIGFIP have been 
installed in the budget units of the central administration, as reflected in 
the 2009 Recipient’s Budget to improve efficiency and transparency in 
budget execution. 
(c) 
The 2009 Budget using the WAEMU-based budget classification has 
been approved by the Recipient’s Parliament on April 9, 2009, as 
reflected in the  Recipient’s  2009  Budget  Law  to  improve  and  make 
more transparent the presentation of budget allocations among sectors, 
administrative units, and public  functions. 
(d) 
The General Finance Inspectorate of the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance 
has undertaken control missions for the payment of civil service wages 
over sectoral ministries’ personnel data for at least half of all the 
Recipient’s ministries, as reflected in the Report of the General Finance 
Inspectorate dated March 27, 2009. 
2. 
Fostering of Private Sector Development
(e) 
The Recipient’s Council of Ministers has adopted nine OHADA acts of 
business law as reflected in the Minutes of the Council of Ministers’ 
meeting (
Comunicado do Governo)
 on
April 3, 2009. 
(f) 
The Recipient’s Council of Ministers has adopted a draft Investment 
Code consistent with good international practices, as reflected in the 
Comunicado do Governo
 of September 18, 2008 to promote a level-
playing field among private investors and remove discretion in the 
granting of fiscal privileges for  investment. 
Page  6
5
(g) 
The Recipient’s Council of Ministers has adopted a draft Public-Private 
Partnership Law, as reflected in the Minutes of the Council of Ministers’ 
meeting (
Comunicado do Governo) 
on
April 3, 2009. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a 
single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set 
out in the table below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Tranche 
                                5,400,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
                                5,400,000                      
C. Deposits 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise 
agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into a dedicated account designated by the Recipient and acceptable 
to the Association; and 
2. 
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
D. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
1. 
have the account and the recording of amounts of the Grant into the Recipient’s 
budget management system referred to in Part C of this Section audited by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association; 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and  
Page  7
6
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the said account 
and recording of Grant amounts into the budget management system, and their 
audit, as the Association shall reasonably request. 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures.
 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an  amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled. 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2009. 
Page  8
7
APPENDIX 
Section I. Definitions 
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, unworked 
or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 
Page  9
8
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
2. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
3. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated May 15, 2009 from the Recipient to the Association 
declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
4. “SIGFIP” 
or 
“
Sistema Integrado de Gestao de Finanças Publicas
”
means 
integrated public financial management system. 
5. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
6. 
“WAEMU” means West-African Economic and Monetary Union. 
 
Page  10
9
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the 
“International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 
2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
“Section 2.05.
 Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of 
the proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the
 
Association or 
the Bank (“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the 
Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and 
outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal 
from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if 
any, on the advance as at such date.  The Association shall pay the 
amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
Page  11
10 
 
7. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
(a) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” 
and its definition is modified to read as follows:  
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.
”
Page  12
11 
 
