Dociat of
The World Bank
FORt OFFCIAL USE ONlY
Report No. 12038
PROJECT CO WPLWN NOM
PANAMA
SEVERT POWER PROJECT
(WOA 2506-PAN)
JUNE 21, 1993
NICROWICHE COPY
Report No. :12038 PAN   Type: (PCR)
Title: SEVENTH POWER PROJECT - PANA14A
Author: BARBU, ALAIN
Ext. :31'710 Room:T 9102 Dept. :OEDD3
Infrastructure and Energy Division
Country Departmet II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Ths docment hs a resicted disibution and mny be used by reies only In te perfomance of
teir officil dties. Its contets may not otberwis be discosed witout World Bank autorIzatio



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washngton, D.C. 20
U.SA
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 219 1993
EORANDUM TO THE EECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRBSID>NT
SUBJECTs    Project Completion Note on Panama
Seventh Power Pro1ect tLoan 2506-PAN)
Attached is the "Project Completion Note on Panama - Seventh Power
Project (Loan 2506-PAN)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional
Office.
The main objective of the project ws the raising of the Fortuna dam
(financed under the Fourth Power Loan) to provide additional generation capacity.
The project was initially delayed by the Bank's decision, in 1987, to suspend
disbursements on all loans to Panama (due to mounting arrears). Subsequently,
a disagreement arose between the Government and the Bank on the terms of
renegotiation of the main civil works contract. Accordingly, the bulk (97.52)
of the loan amount of US$ 51 million was canceled. The project was ultimately
completed under local financing (at a cost significantly higher than the original
contract price).
Since most of the loan was canceled, the project is not rated. No audit
is planned.
Attacbment
This document has a restricted distribution and my be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. its contents my not otherise be disctosed without World .t* authorizatian.



SEVENTH EQW-IrowP ROJBCr QPAi 2SPAt
1.   Ibis Project Completion Note (PCN) has been prepared for Panama's Seventh Power
Project, in lieu of a Project Completion Report, as no disbursements were made to finance
the main component of the project, Le., raising the height of the Fortuna dam, and 97.5% of
the proceeds of the loan was cancelled. The PCN was prepared by the Infrastructure and
Energy Division, Department IL of the Latin American and Canrbbean Region a(A2IE),
based on information in Bank files, discussions with and comments from Bank staf and
recent information provided by the Borrower and the civil works contractor.
2.    The Bank approved a lan for US$51.0 mfflion to the Instituto de Recursos
idric   Electroifcac  (IRHE, the Borrower) on March 19, 1985. FoHlowing a period of
poNc turmoil, the parayzation of construction work for a long period of time, and the
Bank-'s subsequent objection to a new "cost-plus-fee' contract negotiated betveen IRHE and
the Contractor, at the request of the Borrower, the unused balance of US$49.7 milion was
cancelled on September 9, 1991. However, work on the dam has oontinued under the "cost-
plus-fee contract, with IRHE financing, and is scheduled for completion by December, 1993,
at a cost slightly higher than the original SAR cost estimates, but substantially higher than the
originally contracted amount.
3.    The Project included three main components: (a) construction work to raise the
height of the Fortuna dam by 40 meters; (b) a survey of ten medium-ized hydroelectric
proects, pre-feasibility studies of three of them, and feasibility studies of two; and (c) a study
of the current value of the Borrowers asses The total project cost estimated in the SAR
was US$79.1 milion, 64% of which was to be financed by the Bank loan, and 36% from
IRHEs own funds The purpose of the loan was to increase the amount of electricity
generated by hydropower to enable Panama to reduce its dependence on imported fuels and
to make the Fortuna dam permanently safe, and to identify additional hydro resources for
future development.



-2-
4.    Since 1962, the Bank has nade sven loans to IRE, for a total of US$255.4
million, for investments in the power sctor. ITe first four loans patially financed new
hydro and thermal plants (533 MW) and assiated trznsmsion. Bank partIcipati
aimed to ime sector orniation and plaming and the ut's   nani sitadon
through the introduction of tarffs based on long-run margin  cost and incresed
operati aad efilciency. The firs thue loans were completed sucessfuly, despi some
delays and cost overus. The Fourth Power Project (cAostucton of the Potua I dam)
was delyed 16 months. The Bank and the Ihter-American Deelopment Bank (1DB)
helped face a cost overun of 106% 1 thrugh   lmentl lons. Commercial
opeton of the Fona plant started in 1984. ITh FiMh Power Project, a
subtansision and distribution project, was completed with a delay of three months and
a cost overrnm of about 55%.' The Sixth Power Project, also a sub sson and
disibution project, was not completed as odginally planned, due to polticda unrest in
Pama between 1987 and 1989, to pr eent problems, and to intenal maa t
.aad finacial problems at IRE  The udsursed balance of the lomn (58%) was
ancelled in August, 1989.
5.   In 1972 IRHE began buldling major hydroeectric power plant to offset the
increasng cost of oi import that begn with the shap price increases of the eady 1970s
Between 1976 and 1984, it spent US$770 million to add 540 MW of hydro powe to the
power system, and was thus able to reduce thrmal generaio fom 94% in 1975 to 3%
in 1984, though at the cost of a substial debt service incease. Bocause of this and the
increase of opertg costs other than fuel, IRHE's finanal problems incread despt a
Goverment tarff poliy t allowed rate inreases from an average of US cent 5.6/kWh
in 1976 to US cent 12.0/kWh in 1992, Le. above the leve of long-run marinal cosL
6.    The Project's main objective was to incease  e geng ting capacty of the
Frttna Hydroeectic Power Plant (F a I), which was constucted under the Fourth
Power Prject (Loan 1470-PAN). Under ths eadier loan, a 60 m high rock-fid,
concte-lined dam was constructed, as wel as a    yteory spillway for 2,325 m'/sec, a
6.0 km pressure tnnd, an 8.3 km tailrace tunnel, and an underou  power pln with
a capacy of 300 MW and an averag geneaton of 1,240 GWblyear. Th resevoir
sra  capaty, however, was small, at 8.4 milion m. Th power plant state
opeati  in Febuary 1984.
1. Cost ovemu awe  dyd in dh PCR No. 8376 of Feiuy 6, 1990 for th Fouil Pw  Pijcot id
PCR No, 114S6 dutd Dacnbw 21, l992 for do FIh Powe Prjec.



-3 -
7.    Under thw Sevaeth Power Project, the second stage of the Portuna Hydectric
Pwer Plant (Founa II) was t be built The dam was to be raised by 40 meers to Its
final depn helight of 100 meters at an elevation of 1,50 meters above sea lael. It
would have a permanent spiliway, with a capaity of 5,300 nm/sec. The final reW voir
stoge capacity would be 158.4 million ne, and the average annual geneation would be
1,490 Gwh, a gain of 250 GWh/year over th first stage; this incased generating
capacty would add about 540 C}Wh o firm capcity to RHE's integated power system.
At the tme of appraisal, the eonomic rate of return of the project was es_mated at 18%.
The loan also pvided for field inve on of ten medium-sized hydreectric projects
slctd from a list of about 28 projects located near Panama City, pie-fasibility sti
of tree of them, and fasibility suies of two; and a study of the currt value of
lREs assets in operation.
8.             project costs at the tm  of appraisal wee 2:
(US$ million)
of th Forn dam, incudig
physia and price contngeci  and
ownes engineering and adm    on.                     73.10
SuWi  under tie Proect                                64
Toad SAR estimated cost eDember 1988
prces)                                               79.10
9.    The following execution schedule was agreed wi IRth     at appraisal:
Iiation of sbtdies for hydroeectric plans  October 1984
Initiation of dam constucto              May 1986
Completion of studi                      September 1987
Complon of dam conuction                 December 1988
10.   STe O                              jrf    i was successfuly
in Januay 1986, the consat firm Iav    In ona of Canada was contacted to
perform the study, wich was carried out in tee stages:
I.    Site reconssance of 15 potential projects and detiled evaluaton of 10;
EL    Pro-fesibility sdi of the folowing site, slected as tie most attactve
in sage I: La Soledad, San Pablo and Chagres; and
2.     de and phydm          hav,bm  ean prorded among *o tw mim   co_ect



-4-
m.   Feasibility studies of two projects with th fo ing       :
So  Ue 11Solw
taLled Capacity, MW            39          31
Plant fctor, %                 48          52
Aver ageenergy, GWh            159         140
Cost in 1988 pces,           2,300       2,400
incudig uC, US$2,W
11.  Ih cost of the consultant's sewces reached US$1.93 millon, of which the Bank
financed TJS$1.30 milion. The method IR    used to select and contrct the conultant
i worth meadting because it helped IRHE to control the cost of consutant services: a
short list was prepared following Bank guidelines, and the selected firms we- invited to
present proposls; in the invitato letter the fm  were inormed of IR s oveall
budget for the contract. As the financial proposal (envelope No. 2) of the rm sected
on technical merits oceeded IRHE's budget, tie consutant agreed to negotiate  the
contrct amount to acommodate he budget without significant cuts in the oiginal scope
Of services.
12.  Th revuation of aI    's ae was not done. Altwugh the consultt was
seected, a contct was not dgned, mainly because: (a) the Goverment delayed
approval of th slected consulant; (b) several    executves of IRHE doubted the need
to perform what the consdered an expensive study; and (c) loan disbure tents were
suspendedand tde lon was canceled before these poblems wer resolved.
13.     i of the ForEa=  Dam. Although a single civil works cotr  was awardod
aw constuio began in December 1987, due to economic and debt service problems,
which led to the suspension of all Bank loans to Panama in November 1987, this project
component was not       under Bank fiancing. Howee, the origina Contactor is
complting the work under a cost-plus-lbe contract, with fll fnancing from nDEs
own fimds. Consuon  is advancg well, and project completon is scduled for
Dwember, 1993. Under this conta  modality, the Cnactor is exewuting the works
and billing the owner at cost, plus a fixed fee on all bild amounts below a "tet cost;
tee are incentives or penalties if the na costs are bow or above the tge  coil.
Acding to recent iftion from IRE and the Contactor, the project would be
at tie folowing costs:



I..~~ 10}  }0i  ' I3  
u    8  g U      iiI{1 11 liIiit 
g ,  ,,,t}It{R



-6-
15.   Beau  of the uspension of ists of al Bank loans to Panama in
November 1987, MM had no access to the funds from the Bans loan to kep-up with
ctractual payments and the Contat, with IlHs agreemet suspended activities in
August, 1988. However, in the epeti  of reming       ucton afte a short delay,
the Contractor mainaied the necessary constrcton equipment on-site. Dudng tis
perod of  pes   of ctivites, the Conta, Il, and ithe Govemment made
several attempts to restart work and to secur alternative financing; the Bank was kept
informed of these effot  Eventually, MM and the Contactor agred in princple,
wihout Bank apprval, to cancel   orinal conuct and to sin a new contrat on a
cot-plus-fie basis. This decision was taken becase the Contactor refused to contine
workng under the original "unit-coa' contact, claing that local conditons had
chanpd substantially, that the negotiated 'unit-costs" were obsolete, and that no adequate
prvion had been made for price adjustments during the long ie interal between bid
propals and the period of construcion.
16.  The above dedsion was taken by IRM  based on the advise given by a US
cnsultant (Rarm E eering Co, the Consultant), hired by the Goverment with
USAID fnncing, to advise on the best course of action to cary out the project, which
was urgenty needed; the terms of refce  of the Consultant were known to the Bank.
The Cnsultt considered tee opto: (1) re-negotion of the ousting wunit-cost"
contct; (ii) negotation of a 'cost-plus-fee cntct with the same Conacto, or
(ih) re-bidding. The Consutans analysis of the options took into       in
addition to contracta costs, the tm  estmaed to pros each alteve and cost
associed to any delays aing from increased fel costs. The ConsLant conduded that
the most economic and most exedio  opton was for nRE to eecut a new 'cost-
plus-fe  contract with the Conrtium, and that the secnd-best opton was to enforce
the edstng onct with unit co  updated for infatios The least deiable and most
eopt  was redding. The Conultant esimated that these las two optons
would cost 26% and 124% respecdvely more than the reco eded solution. Based on
the Consutant's        daton, RH  asked for the Banks no-objeton to the alrdy
negotiated 'cost-plus-fee cntct After lengy disussions and two visits by Bank
staff and consultants to Panama, ane one visit by IR's odcials to Washngton, this
reques was denied by the Bank.
17.  ITe cost-plus-fee' modality was rejected becae the Bank conidered that the
odginal conhc between MM and the Consortum, though suspended, was sill valid
and binding, and that the best opton for MI     was to update the units costs of the
existing contract for iafi  and to compnsa  the Coortum for te costs it had
inmred durig the perod of nactit. Any other ateative would allow the
Contrtor to corrct, what at dme of award was pereived by the Bank and lMME as a
S. It =ms be neat o de C  8 epu d  mtm  tA th opta of a -coaph-
ee" cotra my ot be apsa_ b tlo teBu. une ils   _   ui ilse



-7-
very low bid price; in fict, the contract bad boe signed for US$ 23.4 millon, wbl the
second lowest bdder quotd US$29.4 millon, and IR s the ofiial etate bad bee
US$49 milion.
18.    A furh  reason for reecting IR s proposal was that a   ac-plus-fle
con        negotiaed direty with one contactor wihout competiti  bidding wold nm
agains Bank prueme  polcie  ad woud not have been equitable to othe bdders.
The co-plus-e contoa negoaed between I          d t  Consordum requd t*or
chages to the conditions oinally se in te  d docment, and placed the Contct
in the pdvfleged posin of not acing the commercial rL  Furthore, in the absen
of compewtve bidding, te was no objecte yardstk upon whh to as    the
reasonableness of t  agreed price.
19.   hne peroMac of the consultants that crrd out t  fesibilty ste  or t
medium-sized hydroelectric proecwasyoftheContractor
for the cil wor  was td first by submit  an eady clim, dsry aft  id awad,
for work ht thefy argued wer not in fth origina spMmiains h Bank supported
MMHE  in jectig t    aim. Subsey, question may be raied on their inssten
n           subsially te ums of a   ned con , awae  at the Bower was
pressed to complet fth proect due to system needs.
20.    The Borro,er was affected by politi  and econo    evew outside Its coto.
The Govement's failure to see Bank debt was tiggered by these event  These also
led to a very detrorted financial siton as elccity sales dropped, clecns
deterird and nH  was reqired to transfer its cash to th Govement As a result
of tee acons, DH  and tie Goverment were in non-compiac  with cmien
under the loaL
21.    nEs decision on the cvi work contract is harder to assess, as thir
contention was that, if the Consortium pulled out an d thy had to rebid, fth costs of the
ensuing delay would have been very high. Indeed, give the unusua political and
eoonomic  dme ! lpas  iling at that dme, he outme of a leg  dipute with t
Conortum,requiring it to abide, by the terms of the original contrac was not
predicabl. iHowever, Bank staff agree d  on bale the course          by the
Ban at the tme was apprprate, not ady to ese comice with Its own
procurmetgudein  but, more impoany, to ensure              and to best sev
Paama's long-tem interes.



-8-
22.    Dudr  the initial phases of project executio, pdri to suqension, the Bank
displayed c   bl   s         , and did not prs for immedte complac with
inanciaiasl ommit    ait was evident that I 's perfmance was being affected by
etal events, outside its col. The Bank asssted  EM to deend its posit  when
the civil work contactor sbmitted its fis caim (par  19). When the renegotation of
the conta ise aros, tie Bank amined it troughly. The AC regional
procurement advisor and the civil wr   advisor in the Banles Cena  Procement Unit
were etnvely consulted, and misin visied Panama to a_empt to wock out a
souin. From ths perspectve, the performa   of th Bank was fiuless. Them is a
queston, however, whether if the Bank had reacted more forcefy the ist momet t
the option of a ,cost plu' cotact was suggested, it might hae prvted evns fom
taking the tu  that dty did. Some J b staff apparently ft tat the Banks seeming
wilingness to consder opo  sggsted tat  x      was fble  Indeed, ntHErs
positon to this day is that the Bankrs intrpettion of its prouement giddellnes wastoo
lieral, and filed to atta  adequ wight o economic          on O  balancem the
performance of the Bank was satsctory and the decisions tk  wer based an an
elhusve    d       on   a the reevant fctor. Indeed, in the Ht of the concers
rsed in te Wapenbans Repot on the Baks rluctn  to invokm its remeies in
suati  of non-compliance, this project stands out as an cxmple to the contay which
is all the more Ce given the dicult country diWlogue at the time  d atn
from third par_t  to Ifniuence the Baks deciion4
23.   On September 9, 1991, fo   g upon the Ba's reusal to amce the new
'cost-plus-fee contract, nE        cancelation of the baloe of the lan, and th
baance of US$49,722,000 was cancelled. Th funds used by J     were distributed as
-US Dollars
5am                 Per Loan    Actu  Amount
(1) Civil wor           46,000,000      -0-
(2) C   lantes servies    3,5,000      1,278,000
(3) Unae LA                              -o-
TOrAL                um



.9
24.   Lng deays in poject iplemnion, and political and economic unceraties,
led to dites wihi the Contactor that were seted by nIR  In a mner cosdered
unaeptble by the B1k Th deays and uncer es were compounded by
Government Interfernce in IRE's daily  aons, and by financial and m  anag t
problemswithn DM. The lessons to be laned f*om the proect pdmaly fou on the
pr       lisue; ote problems that arose wese so much due to pol  t -cac
that it wod have been impossible to foree them or to coider ops to pct from
thm beo  Board appuml. It sms partculry impora  to emphasize tha Oi du
proect prpation and p sal,   e should be cear aeement and                 asn& n
to wha constitus  qapropriate pcuwreet procedure, (ii) these prcdur  may not be
chaged withu th Bans concunce, an (iii) lar  constuin contas shud
alwa  include appiate pdre adjustment provisions to anipate ufoeseen proj
deays. Hower, perhaps th main lesson is ta the Bank may bae  see the intere  of
its borowrs by protecting the iegt of thdr pement poces.



- 10 -
TRANSLATION                         Page 1 of 2
Instituto de Recursos Hidraulicos y
Electrificacion
TO:                 Mr. iawo Halpein,
Opeation Division
Iatrcr ad Enr
Wodd Bank
PROM:               Gozao Cordoba C.
Director Gene, IRH
LOAN 2506-PAN
Proct Comei M
DATE:               Janury 21, 1993
We bh   reeved the document Paraant Seenth Power Project - Poject
Completion Meznorndum", and have the following comments:
-    Mmie data shw  in the doement i aWrriae.
-    With regards to the Consi er ations why EHE decided to contiu the
constucon of the Portna dam under a new contac wih
SKANSKA, th foilowing addiona reasons should be added:
(a)   the un neod of DIE to complet the second stagp of the Fortimua
dam, In view of the problem we had to meet the power demands of
the country;
(b)   bori  reatio  with tie Wodd Bank codtued dirpted and It
was difficult to pret when they would be norm  ai;
(c)   th ection of SKANSKA to continue work for the Pona dam
under he "unit-Cost  contract as recommended by the Wodd Bak;
and
(d)   the IpoSilIty D call for a ne  bid boca   of he etremely long
proess reWred.
Sincerely,
Gonzao Cordoba C
Dfet Gerad



- 11 -
MISlTUO BE MECLRSOS              LICOS V EECrRI FPCA   N
leERJZE    PANAMlA  1POL.I(07)
N _______ Il       TELEX: 2158 IRHE PA           62-9117
f319 D I.RIRHPA       "
?AW"       Seftx RLicardo A. M8algerz
Divs.da de Operaoioos do
Iaflesraecuruz sw  y bri
Fa: (202) 674-1821
n5*       Glmaalo Cdiabe C.
Di4eCttor 6m1A, 1951
NrEAdi de r?enahuidn del Pr@yc*  .
Am:        21 de oseo de@ 1"3
h  ase.i6  e1 docemmio titzddo "Paam  S.            power   et      je
Cploetaoa  _ewade  recibid. pore aueustr rei a
-    Cowideraou at4sufosiase las eifra reflojeds.
-    5.t ousaf a la deacripoi6a de alpine, ateoled..s.    en jo  .ereuidee a
1le ramo. per lea eneleel         two qam    omatiuw, .1 prroyeos  do 1.
Pro.  Alt. bajo .1 oeau_m  d  ce trweeeidu fialuete .oeado pew ia
euw,l SOMM. debebtn mnLaira lea alawi emCe co.afUr.eieu.:
(a)  La oee..ided ursace del 1M  de emr 1.f Pree  Alto, oe vista do
lee proWbe   pare  J     Jmil wa 1e mae ds&  per el pas.
(b)ToavIa no se hobabian wuede 1. lele  eaw  r  it,   -  .
'eo Sundial jr ra difioil predoejr eubdob Be uemUaewta.
(c)  5U mbas. de &Ul= do ooat&nr m  e1 preoeo de Prm Also de
*  Fortwe bei 1 modauda de do  is dwctI', Sdamp gm _
per* . MW ag.. udial.
Alregeo ol eo l-
(41)  La LqpesibiUdad do d£ree    win aw   lioLaoLd dol pr¢ete peo
le  pia   dade lar., ru.idoe zemaoe abe.
At.eme,
peA



