FILE COpy
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 2 7 8a-ME
MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF A
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
January 21, 1974
Latin America and the Ca-ribbean
Projects Department
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                  = Peso (Ps)
US$1.O0                        = Ps 12.5
Ps 1                           = US$0.08
Ps 1 million                   = US$80,000
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
System of Weights and Measures
Metric                           British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                    = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)               = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)       = 0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)           = 2,204 pounds (lb)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADT                            - Average Daily Traffic
AU                             - Animal Units
GNP                            - Gross National Product
IDB                            - Inter-American Development Bank
SCT                            - Secretaria de Comunicaciones y
Transportes
SOP                            - Secretaria de Obras Publicas
vpd                            - Vehicles per day



MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF A SEVENTH HICHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ........          ......................   i - ii
1.    INTRODUCTION        .................... .....................
2.    TiE TRANSPORT SECTOR  ...............................                2
A.   General   .........................................             2
B.    The Transport Modes  .............................    2
C.   Transport Policy and Coordination ............          ...     5
3.   THE HIGHWAYS ..........................................               6
A.   Highway Network ......           ...........................    6
B.    Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic ......              7
C.   Highway Planning and Financing ..................               8
D.   Highway Administration .....           .....................   10
E.   Highway Engineering .....           ........................   11
F.   Highway Construction .....           .......................   11
G.   Highway Maintenance .....           ........................   12
4 .   THE PROJECT           ..........................................    13
A.   General Description ............ ..           ...............   13
B.    Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursement  ......   13
C.   Execution .......................................   16
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION .............. ..            ..................    18
A.   General .........................................   18
B.   Widening of Four Roads from Two to Four Lanes  ...   19
C.   Construction of New Links between Important Areas    20
D.   Agricultural Development Roads ....             ..............   23
E.    Sensitivity Analysis ............................   26
6.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................   26
This appraisal report has been prepared by Messrs. J. Bazo (Agriculturist),
B. Chatelin (Economist) and R. Paraud (Engineer) and has been edited by
Ms. V. Foster.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
TABLES
1.  Railway Statistics 1960-1972
2.  Air Traffic-Passenger Kilometers 1960-1972
3.  Transport Investments 1965-1972
4.  Length of Highways 1960-1972
5.  Densities of the Highway Network 1972
6.  Number of Motor Vehicles Registered 1960-1972
7.  Consumption of Gasoline and Diesel.1960-1972
8.  Highway Expenditures 1960-1972
9.  Road User Charges 1969-1972
10.  Design Standards
11.  Project Highways:  Length, Type and Surface
12.  Cost Estimate of Project Highways
13.  Analysis of Construction Cost Estimates by Items; Costs per km
14.  Schedule of Individual Contracts or Packages of Contracts
15.  Traffic Forecasts
16.  Vehicle Operating Cost - Paved Road
17.  Vehicle Operating Cost - Earth Road
18.  Roads Justified on Agricultural Development - Agricultural
Investments - Phasing, Type and Source of Financing
19.  Economic Return (Sensitivity Analysis)
ANNEXES
1.   Bank's Participation in the Transportation Sector
2.   The Project Roads
3.   Schedule of Disbursements
4.   Economic Benefits from Roads Justified on Agricultural Development
CHARTS
I   Organization Chart of the Secretariat of Public Works
II   Organization Chart of the General Directorate for Federal Highways
MAPS
lbZ' t 0549R -  Main Highway Network
IBRD 10621 -   Playa Azul-Coahuayana Road - Area of Influence
IBRD 10623 -   Sayula-Rlo IJapanapa Road - Area of Influence
IBRD 10622 -   Pochutla-Salina Cruz Road - Area of Influence
IBRD 10620 -   Guerrero-Nuevo Laredo Road - Area of Influence



MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF A SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The various mountain ranges that cross Mexico, creating deep valleys
and high Dlateaus, have fostered an uneven location of population and a need
for the development of transport means to connect population centers with the
ports of entry and with the capital of the country, Mexico City. Highways
have played an important role in this development, and the length of the road
network has been steadily increasing from about 44,900 km in 1960 to about
124,400 kcn in 1972. The road network, however, should be extended to open up
new areas for production and should be improved and expanded to keep up with
growing traffic needs. The proposed project will help in obtaining the two
abovementioned objectives. The railways have also contributed to the develop-
ment of the country with a total present track length of about 24,500 km serving
the most important production centers. Due to the rugged topography of the
country, its impressive area (about two million square kilometers) and the
scattered location of the population centers, aviation has become increasingly
important for passenger transport.
ii.       The proposed project is aimed toward improving or further expand-
ing the Federal highway system. It comprises the widening of four heavily
trafficked roads (about 200 km) from two to four lanes and the construction
of 12 roads (about 1,670 km), eight of which will reduce distance or connect
existing routes or will fill missing links within the Federal highway system;
the remaining four roads will open new areas for agricultural development.
The estimated cost of the project is US$241.4 million equivalent, including
contingencies and supervision of construction. The Bank loan of US$90.0 mil-
lion equivalent will finance the foreign exchange component of the project;
the Government will finance the balance of US$151.4 million equivalent out
of its budget.
iii.      The main benefits from the four roads to be widened and eight of
the roads to be constructed will be road user savings from improved riding
surfaces and shorter routes, while major developmental benefits will accrue
from the construction of the four agricultural roads by facilitating access
to potentially rich agricultural areas. The economic returns of the proposed
roads range from 10% to 41% with a weighted average of 23%.
iv.       This will be the seventh Bank loan for highways in Mtexico.  From
1960 to 1970, four loans totaling US$114.3 million were made for Federal
highways (Loans 268-ME, 354-ME, 528-ME and 695-ME), including US$8.5 mil-
lion for the purchase of maintenance equipment; in 1962 and 1963, two loans
(317-ME and 401-ME) totaling US$62.5 were made for toll facilities includ-
ing the purchase of a ferry boat. The quality of works executed was satis-
factory, but cost increases and delays were encountered (except for Loan



528-ME), mainly because of insufficient engineering preparation at the time
of appraisal. For Loan 528-ME, the engineering was well advanced for ap-
praisal, and cost increases and delays have been minimized; likewise, for
Loan 695-ME, progress, so far, is sarisractory. However, due to the Govern-
ment's urgent need to continue its highway development program, the project
was appraised prior to finalization of detailed engineering, which has been
completed for ten project roads only and is at various stages of progress
for the remaining roads. To minimize the problems encountered in previous
projects, the Bank will review the cost estimates upon completion of the
engineering, and disbursements will be conditional upon confirmation of eco-
nomic justification based on cost estimates resulting from completed detailed
engineering; if the economic justification is not confirmed, the Government
will be permitted to propose other roads for inclusion in the project.
v.        Execution of the project is expected to take four years (mid-1974 to
mid-1978) and will be the responsibility of the Secretaria de Obras Publicas
(SOP). Construction will be performed under contracts awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding, in accordance with the Bank's guidelines;
however, for some bridges and minor or specialized works, totaling about 10% of
project costs, contracts may be awarded through locally advertised competitive
bidding. Construction will be supervised by SOP staff, as in previous projects.
vi.       The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$90.0
million equivalent; a term of 25 years, including a grace period of five
years, would be appropriate.



iIEXICO
APPRAISAL OF A SEVENTH IIIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Mexico has requested the Bank to help finance a
project consisting of (a) widening and paving of four roads totaling 201 km;
and (b) the construction, including paving, of 12 roads totaling 1,674 km.
1.02      This will be the seventh Bank higlhway project in Mexico and the
fifth of the seven for the improvement and extension of the Federal highway
system. Annex 1 gives details of the previous six highway projects as well
as of other Bank projects in the transportation sector (railways and ports);
the total amount of the loans is US$332.8 million. The Inter-American Devel-
opment Bank (IDB) has also assisted in the development of the Mexican trans-
portation system through eight loans totaling US$181.0 million: five for
feeder roads (US$101.0 million), one for Federal highways (US$33.5), one for
purchase of maintenance equipment (US$25.0 million) and one for construction
of an airport as part of a tourism project (US$21.5 million).
1.03      The total Bank participation of about US$177.0 million for the devel-
opment of the Mexican highway network has had a great impact on the improve-
ment of the transportation system; out of a total length of about 35,200 km
of Federal and toll highways, the Bank has assisted, or is assisting, in the
improvement or construction of about 13,100 km, approximately 37% of the total
length. Although the quality of works executed is satisfactory, cost increases
and construction delays were encountered on works under Loans 268-ME, 317-ME,
354-ME and 401-ME. Problems developed, mainly because of insufficient engin-
eering preparation, which led to design changes and increased quantities.
1.04      Consequently, starting with Project 528-ME, the Bank insisted on
having the engineering fully or substantially completed for appraisal. This
showed satisfactory results, and cost increases and delays for works under
Loan 528-ME have been minimized; the same results are expected for works under
Loan 695-ME. For the proposed project, progress of completion of the detailed
engineering is expected to be 80% for roads and 60% for bridges before Board
presentation; however, the disbursement for roads on which detailed engineer-
ing will not be completed at that time will be conditional upon confirmation
of economic justification, based on cost estimates resulting from completed
detailed engineering. If the economic justification is not confirmed, the
Government will be permitted to propose other roads for inclusion in the
project, and such roads will be subject to the same evaluation criteria
(para. 4.11).
1.05      The proposed project is a followup of the previous highway projects
and will further expand the Bank's role in the extension and improvement of
the Mexican highway network. Some of the project roads are extensions of



-2-
Bank-financed roads; they will fill missing links within the system or will
provide cross connections among existing trunk routes.
1.06      The appraisal of the present project is based on the technical and
economic studies prepared by the Secretariat of Public Works (SOP) and on the
findings of the appraisal mission, comprising Messrs. Bazo (Agriculturist),
Paraud (Engineer), and Chatelin (Economist), which visited Mexico in May-June
1973. Ms. V. Foster edited the appraisal report.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
2.01      Mexico covers an area of nearly two million square kilometers.  Much of
the country is sparsely populated because of its difficult topography and inad-
equate rainfall, and, although extensive schemes for agricultural development
have increased the areas under irrigation, the population is urbanizing rapidly.
Close to 60% of the population of 54 million is now urban; this proportion
was 52% in 1960 and 43% in 1950. In 1972, about 18% of Mexico's population
lived in the Federal district centered on Mexico City.
2.02      Although overall population growth has been 3.5% per annum since
1960 - one of the highest rates in the world - urban population growth was
higher than 5% per annum, while rural growth was only about 1.5% per annum.
2.03      Since 1960, the growth rate of the Mexican gross national product
(GNP) has been about 6.7% per annum, one of the highest in Latin America.
GNP per capita was estimated to be US$744 for 1972.
B.   The Transport Modes
2.04      The Mexican transport sector in its inception was designed primarily
to link, by road and rail, the major ports with the industrial and urban centers
of the interior; secondly, an intricate network of roads and railways was con-
structed within the central plateau to link Mexico City with the main surround-
ing centers; and, finally, road and rail connections were provided for foreign
trade with the US through a dozen border points along the frontier. Most of
the major towns and cities also have commercial airports. As a result, Mexico
nas a comprehensive and strongly competitive land transport infrastructure,
with port and airport facilities to complement the other modes. The main
traffic flows for agricultural products are located between the northeastern
area principal centers of production, the main cities and the US border.  The
raw materials move from all over the country to the industrial centers of
Monterrey, San Luis Potosi, Guadalajara and Mexico City, where finished in-
dustrial products originate, in turn, and are destined for local consumption or
for export, mainly to the US. Although the railways have a clear-cut advan-
tage over road transport for the carriage of bulk over medium and long distances,
road transport is carrying about half of international transport and a much



-3-
more substantial part of national transport. Passenger traffic is mainly
carried by roads.
(i) Railways
2.05      Mexican railways have played an important role in the process of
economic growth; in recent years, however, there has been only a marginal
expansion of the rail network, which now extends to 24,508 km. Freight traf-
fic, neverthe'less, has been growing at an annual rate of 5.2% since 1960 to
reach about 24 billion ton-km in 1972 (Table 1). Passenger traffic has
practically been stagnant during the same period at about 4.5 billion pass-km.
Other aspects of recent change include the replacement of steam by diesel
locomotives, renewal or upgrading of the rail network, and increase and
modernization of rolling stock. The Bank is participating in these improve-
ments (para. 2.06).
2.06      Despite growing freLgnt traft:Lc and improved efficiency and pro-
ductivity, the financial situation of the railways has gradually deteriorated,
and increasingly large Federal Government transfers have been required to
cover current account deficits, debt amortizations and new investments. In
1971, the net annual deficit was about 1.9 billion pesos (about US$150 mil-
lion). The major problems of the railways are financial, because tariffs
have been held constant since 1958 while costs have steadily increased at a
pace which has not been compensated by increasing revenues or by economies in
operations. Significant improvement could probably be achieved through greater
efficiency of management and operations, including reduction of certain operat-
ing costs and the closure of certa::n branch lines. The fundamental problems,
however, are related to the pricing of freight and passenger services. After
the financing of a first railway project in 1954 for "Ferrocarriles del
Pacifico" (Loan 103-ME, US$61 million), the Bank is now financing a second
railway project for "Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico" (Loan 825-ME, US$75
million), which comprises a plan of action and the railways' 1972-1973 invest-
ment plan. The project is intended to start a drive toward improved performance
and financial viability after the Government, having accepted recommendations
regarding the transport sector made by the Bank, declared as policy that the
railways should be run on a commercial basis. Despite recent changes in manage-
ment of the railways which have postponed some of the ongoing reforms, a tariff
increase has been proposed by the railways and, if adopted by the Government,
should substantially improve the financial position of the railways.
(ii)  Highways
2.07      The highway system and its administration are described in Chapter 3.
(iii)  Civil Aviation
2.08      Air transport has become increasingly important for passenger
traffic.  The two principal airlines, the State-owned Aeronaves de Mexico
(renamed AEROMEXICO in 1972) and the privately owned Mexicana de Aviacion,
jointly increased the number of pass-km from 1.0 billion to 4.5 billion



-4-
between 1962 and 1972 (Table 2). Freight transport is not yet of great im-
portance (about 40,000 tons a year). The improvement program for the air-
port network, which started in 1965, includes 85 airports; there are pres-
ently 11 airports capable of accommodating long-range aircraft, 34 airports
suitable for medium-range aircraft, and 40 airports limited to short-range
aircraft.
2.09      The Government's aviation policy is based on the premise that air
transport plays an important role in national development, particularly in
the expansion of the tourism sector.  Civil aviation in Mexico is well
advanced and is characterized by greater technical efficiency than in most
developing countries. A major shortcoming, however, was the fact that there
was no single well defined entity with full authority and responsibility for
coordinating the activities of the main agencies and enterprises concerned
with aviation. When the Mexican Government recently requested Bank financing
for the construction and improvement of eight airports, 1/ the Bank urged a
restructuring and centralizing of the aviation responsibility.  To solve the
problem, the Mexicans have recently created an ad-hoc coordination committee
involving all agencies responsible for air transport.
(iv) Ports
2.10      The growth of the Mexican economy has not depended to any signifi-
cant extent on sea trade because about two-thirds of total imports in goods
have been shipped across the land frontier with the USA. Seaborne exports
are relatively more important than seaborne imports but account for less than
half of total merchandise export value. The country's ports do, however, play
a significant role in domestic trade, which now provides about 55% of all port
activity.
2.11      Mexico has 36 deep water ports of which five - Veracruz, Tampico,
Guaymas, Mazatlan and Manzanillo - handle 80% of the general and dry bulk
cargo.  Total traffic was 15.6 million tons in 1970.  In January 1970, the
Government created under the Secretariat of the Presidency a "National Com-
mittee for Ports Coordination", which has established in the main ports the
so-called "Enterprises for Port Services" to handle cargo; this system has
proved to be satisfactory.
2.12      The Bank is financing a port project (Loan 820-ME, US$20 million)
signed in May 1972. The project will: (a) improve efficiency of operations
-n the five major ports by the provision of high priority installations and
equipment and (b) establish an institutional basis for dealing with ports
efficiently. The project is progressing satisfactorily, although behind
schedule. The establishment of the Department of Ports Operations in the
Ministry of Marine ( a condition of the Loan Agreement for the port project)
has been accomplished, and staffing has been completed.
1/   This project was appraised in October 1973.



-5-
(v) Pipelines
2.13      Petroleos Mexicanos (PEMEX), the Government agency responsible for
oil exploitation in Mexico, is operating about 3,000 km of oil pipeline and
about 3,800 km of gas pipeline. All of these lines are operating at near
capacity, and new traffic has been shifted to other modes of transport in recent
years.
C.   Transport Policy and Coordination
2.14      Legally, the Secretariat of Communications and Transport (SCT) is
responsible for advising on transport coordination issues; in practice, how-
ever, the work is spread among a number of Secretariats and other Government
agencies, without formal coordination of the work of these agencies. The 1970
Bank sector mission issued a list of recommendations after discussion with
those responsible for the transport sector. One important recommendation,
the merger of all the departments dealing with transport under one Secretariat,
was not accepted by the incoming Government because it was not consistent with
its desired allocation of responsibilities. The creation in 1972 of a
Directorate for Transport Coordination within SOP has not resolved the problem
since the other agencies are reluctant to accept SOP's leadership in these
matters.
2.15      Three Secretariats are directly involved in transport policy and
planning: SOP, SCT and the Secretariat of the Presidency. SOP is responsible
for building the transport infrastructure except for ports and pipelines and
for maintaining the road network; it deals directly with the Secretariat of
the Presidency and has very few official contacts with SCT. SCT controls the
operation of the system by fixing tariffs, delivering licenses, etc. SCT also
deals directly with the Presidency. The Presidency approves all transport
investment and is also involved in many other transport matters such as tariffs.
2.16      These three Secretariats have recognized the lack of transport co-
ordination and have elaborated proposals to coordinate and program the transport
sector. During negotiations for the Second Railway Project (Loan 825-ME), the
Government agreed to strengthen the Planning Department of SCT, and a new
structure for this Department, including better staffing, has recently been
approved by the Secretariat of the Presidency but has not yet been implemented.
The new organization will have a much larger staff than the present one, and,
with the help of external consultants, SCT will prepare a long-term transport
program. The proposed new structure has been reviewed by the Bank and judged
acceptable. Very recently, the Secretariat of the Presidency created a
Transport Coordination Committee responsible for planning and coordinating
investments, including all the entities dealing with transport. The Government
is in the process of determining the responsibilities of each of the above
organizations and, during negotiations, ic submitted proposals acceptable to
the Bank on the steps that it will take for effective planning in the transport
sector.
2.17      Since 1965, about 23% of total public investment has been devoted
to the transport sector, about 31% of which has been financed by internal
credits and 20% by international credits. During the same period, interna-



-6-
tional credit lhas financed 14% of road construction and about 28% of the
railways' investment. Of the total transport investment, 56% has been devoted
to roads, 26% to railways and 18% to other transport modes (Table 3). Al-
though we have no transport data indicating the share of each transport
mode, road transport is by far the most important, and the allocation of the
transport investments among modes seems reasonable.
2.18      All infrastructure investments for roads, railways and airports
are programmed and carried out by SOP, which has just updated a six-year
investment program for 1971-1976. The revised program for the last four
years (1973-1976) totals 36.8 billion pesos (about US$2.9 billion), of which
7.1% is for railway construction, 19.3% for Federal highways, 14.4% for state
highways, 52.3% for feeder roads and rural development programs and 6.9% for
airports. Each investment was to be economically justified individually, but
the total program is not based on a comprehensive transport survey. As
mentioned earlier (para. 2.16), the Mexican Government is preparing a long-term
transport program which would permit SOP to carry out the most appropriate
infrastructure construction.
3. THE HIGHWAYS
A.  Highway Network
3.01     Mlexican highways have developed rapidly in the past 10 years, as
shown by the following and Table 4:
km                Increase
1962      1972
Federal and Toll Highways                    24,137    35,218           46%
State Roads                                  27,093    35,069           29%
Local Roads                                   3,310    54,104 /1      1530%
/1   Including roads built by hand labor.
In addition, there has been a substantial improvement in quality, the length
of paved roads having increased from about 28,900 km in 1961 to about 46,000
ho in 1972.
3.02      The highway network in Mexico  has 0.038 km per km2 and 1.42 km
of road per thousand inhabitants (Table 5). The system is characterized by
its high quality and uneven distribution.  An analysis of the distribution of
the highway network indicates that about 25% of the network is concentrated on
only 9% of the country's area and that another 50% of the network is located
on about 40% of the area; the remaining 25% of the network serves about half
of the country. However, a major portion of the country is underpopulated and
the density of kilometers of road per thousand inhabitants is higher in the



-7 -
underpopulated areas than in the heavily populated ones. The Government of
Mexico is looking at the underpopulated areas (such as Baia California,
Chihuahua and Sonora) and is trying to determine if the very small density of
population is due to the lack of roads or if the reverse is true. It is con-
sidering a general program of development for these areas including, inter
alia, road construction, especially feeder roads.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.03      The road transport fleet has grown rapidly during the last 10 years,
and the vehicle fleet has been increasing by about 9% per annum (private cars
10.7% per annum, buses 3.2% per annum and trucks 6.1% per annum) to reach
some 2,150,000 vehicles in 1972 (Table 6). The size of the fleet is commensu-
rate with the present demand of road transport. During the same period, the
consumption of diesel has been increasing by 9.5% per annum and consumption
of gasoline by 6.2% per annum (Table 7).
3.04      From 1965 to 1970, traffic counts were carried out on a satisfactory
basis by the Directorate of Planning and Programming of SOP, and good informa-
tion is available for the period, showing that the traffic increased by about
10% per annum. Since 1971, the Department of Traffic Engineering has been
in charge of traffic counts; it has carried out some specific counts since
then but is now reconsidering the whole methodology and, next year, will begin
a general traffic count, using autnmatic devices. The Department expects to
analyze 30,000 km of roads during the first year and to extend the accounting
to the total network in the following years.
3.05      Except for some sections of the network where traffic is particularly
heavy and which will need to be strengthened, the network is basically adequate.
In 1971, the distribution of traffic was as follows:
Roads with ADT                Percent of the Network /1
< 200                             49
201 -   500                             17
501 - 1,000                             14
1,001 - 1,500                              8
1,501 - 2,000                              5
2,001 - 2,500                               2
2,501 - 3,500                               2
3,501 - 4,500                               1
4,501 - 5,500                               1
? 5,500                              1
/1 Federal Highway network excluding toll roads.
3.06      SCT is responsible for controlling road transport on the Federal
network. This transport is largely in the hands of individual owner drivers,
and competition among them is keen despite very strong regulations. Each



truck recuires a permit indicating the road on which to operate and the
freight and weight being transported. After a period of weakness (in 1972,
about 80,000 trucks were operating without a permit), SCT is reexerting
its control, and soon all trucks operating on the Federal network will
have a permit issued regularly by SCT. SCT is also fixing the road tariffs.
The present tariff system for goods is old (1954) and is under review. Goods
are classified into five categories, the tariffs for which vary with the
distances. The truckers must apply the tariff, and they can increase it only
by 25% when they are operating on a non-paved road.  In practice, the Direc-
torate of Tariffs within SCT does not have sufficient personnel to control
the application of tariffs, and often the rates payed by users are lower than
the official tariff. When SCT decided to enforce regulations at the begin-
ning of 1973, it started collecting data to analyze the economic effect of
the road transport regulation in order to determine the usefulness of main-
taining such a strong regulation. Some authorities within the Mexican Govern-
ment favor road transport regulation and will certainly be very reluctant to
reduce it. Undoubtedly, road transport will be regulated to a greater or
lesser extent for some time to come; however, the economic advantages and
disadvantages of the road regulation should be carefully analyzed. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that it will
undertake a study of the economic consequences of the road transport regula-
tions; the details and conclusions of the study will be discussed with the
Bank.
C.   Highway Planning and Financing
3.07      Table 8 gives a breakdown of expenditures on highways for the 1960-
1972 period, showing the great importance given to the development and main-
tenance of the highway system. Expenditures increased from Ps 941.0 million
in 1960 to Ps 4,894 million in 1972, or by about 520% (390% in real terms).
3.08      SOP prepared a six-year highway program (1971-1976) as part of the
general transport investment program (para. 2.18). This program was approved
by the Secretariat of the Presidency after discussion by a subcommittee com-
prising SOP, SCT, the Secretariat of Finance and the Secretariat of the
Presidency. SOP has presently updated the six-year program (1971-1976) and
has just published a program for the years 1973-1976. This program is main-
ly used as a guideline for preparing the yearly budget and is not supported
by any general transport survey. In the preparation of the highway program,
SOP    using the following order of priorities:
(a)  maintaining the existing network satisfactorily.
(b) Building rural infrastructure to incorporate the small
villages into the political, economic and social life of
the nation.
(c) Implementing feeder road construction to increase production
and to obtain a better utilization of the main network; and



- 9 -
(d) Constructing the missing links of the main network to con-
nect all the capital cities of the states and all the main
ports and to link the main municipalities with the capital
cities of the states.
3.09      The updated four-year program (1973-1976) is mainly oriented toward
feeder and tertiary road construction as follows:
Millions of Pesos       Percentages
Federal Highways                    7,066                 22.3%
State Roads                         5,330                 16.8%
Local and Rural Roads                5,000                15.8%
Roads Built by Hand Labor           14,260                45.1%
31,656               100.0%
This program assumes that 44% of Federal highway construction and 53% of
state roads would be partially financed by international lending institu-
tions.
3.10      SOP intends to improve or build, in four years, about 330,000 km of
low standard roads all over the country by the use of hand labor.  This is a
part of a program of public works being carried out by hand labor, which, in
1973, employed about 300,000 laborers and is expected to employ an average of
about 500,000 during the next few years.  The Government has given a very high
priority to this program and has already approved a Ps 2.5 billion allocation
for 1973. It is too early to evaluate the results of the program.
3.11      Road user charges in Mexico are a combination of (a) charges levied
by the Federal Government on the manufacture of vehicles and tires, (b)
licenses and minor taxes levied by the State Governments, (c) revenue from
toll roads and bridges, and (d) taxes on fuel and lubricants collected by the
national oil company (PEMEX) which amount to 12% of the value of PEMEX's
total sales. With the exception of toll revenues, none of the charges are
earmarked for roads. Federal and state taxes go to the general budget while
PEMEX retains part of the taxes on fuel and lubricants for the financing of
its investment, with the remainder going to the general budget.
3.12      ITp to 1971, the revenues from road user charges were more than suf-
ficient to cover the total construction and maintenance outlay of the road
system (Table 9). In 1972, the total road outlays (about Ps 4.9 billion)
were not covered by the road user charges (Ps 4.6 billion). This is mainly
explained by the large program of roads built by hand labor that began during
that year (about Ps 720 million).
3.13      While users of gasoline carried the main burden of taxation, diesel
fuel is, in fact, being subsidized. The difference between retail prices
and total cost of diesel fuel does not cover the 12% sales tax (para. 3.11).



- 10 -
The deficit is mainly covered by revenues from gasoline sales. This imbalance
has implications for road/rail competition in Mexico. The problem will be
studied in detail: a road user charges study, put as one of the conditions
of the Second Railway Loan to Mexico (Loan 825-ME), will start soon. A con-
tract will be signed shortly between the Government and a joint venture of
consulting firms for carrying out the study.
3.14      The position for toll road traiffic is easier to assess since toll
facilities are financed and operated by Caminos, 1/ which is required to be
self-supporting financially and to generate capital resources. Its financial
situation, after a deteriorating period in recent years, mainly caused by
delays and cost overruns in the construction of toll facilities, is now
acceptable, the last balance sheet showing a net profit for 1972.
D.   Highway Administration
3.15      Since the Federal Government pays either wholly or partly for all
highways in Mexico, SOP is concerned, directly or indirectly, in the planning
and construction of all highways. The responsibilities for the highway system
are divided among various authorities as follows:
(a) Federal Highways - SOP is directly responsible for the
planning, construction and maintenance of all Federal
highways. These are financed 100% from Federal funds.
(b) State Highways - Planning, construction and maintenance
of state highways are the responsibility of State Highway
Boards which include an SOP representative assisted by an
adequate staff. The annual state highway programs are
submitted to SOP for review and approval because 50% of
the cost of all works, including maintenance, is borne
by the Federal Government.
(c) Local Roads - Planning and construction of local roads are
the responsibility of SOP. On completion, such roads are
transferred to the corresponding State Highway Board for
maintenance with Board funds. Construction is financed
from one-third Federal, one-third state and one-third local
(either municipalities or private enterprise) funds.
(d)  Rural Roads - SOP recently started constructing rural roads
to join small towns and villages with the nearest main road.
These are planned and constructed by SOP and are financed
entirely with Federal funds. Maintenance will be carried
out by the towns assisted by SOP.
(e) Roads Built by Hand Labor - This is another recent development
aimed at building low standard roads and upgrading existing
1/   Caminos y Puentes Federales de Ingresos y Servicios Conexos, the autono-
mous agency in charge of operating and maintaining toll facilities.



- 11 -
trails and, at the same time, providing income to the poorer
level of the population. SOP finances and manages the program,
and maintenance is carried out with the assistance of nearby
dwellers (para. 3.10).
(f)  Toll Facilities - While SOP plans and constructs toll roads and
bridges, they are operated and maintained by Caminos. Funds
for financing these facilities are provided from tolls levied
on users.
3.16      While the above division of responsibility could lead to confusion
or duplication of functions, the system works adequately because of the over-
riding authority of SOP.
3.17      Early in 1972, SOP was reorganized to improve efficiency and to in-
clude new activities such as hand-labor works and social assistance. A new
Under-Secretariat was created and the General Directorates are now self-
contained units. The new organization and staffing of SOP appear satisfactory,
with clearly established lines of authority (Chart I).
3.18      The Secretariat of Communications and Transport (SCT) is responsible
for control of traffic and road transport using the Federal network. The law
is enforced by SCT's Federal Highway Police. SCT's Traffic Engineering and
Vehicle Control Department is responsible for the control of axle loading and
vehicle size as well as for compliance with the requirements of the operating
permits (para. 3.06). Spot checks are carried out by means of portable scales.
SCT plans to construct freight terminals on the outskirts of the main cities
along the trunk routes.
E.   Highway Engineerin
3.19     Highways and bridges are well engineered by the Directorate of
Federal Highways in the SOP, using up-to-date techniques. The same Directorate
is responsible for construction of Federal highways and supervises construc-
tion with its own staff. The Directorate is well staffed and organized (Chart
II). SOP has satisfactory design standards for the Federal highway network
(Table 10).
F.   Highway Construction
3.20      Highway constrtction is carried out under unit price contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding. Supervision of construction is
carried out satisfactorily by SOP staff.
3.21      The local construction industry is strong, well equipped and well
organized. The National Chamber of the Construction Industry has a member-
ship of about 4,200 contracting firms, 700 of which specialize in highway
works. There is a wide range of work capacity among these specialized firms,
which include about seven firms able to execute highway works amounting to



- 12 -
US$10 to 15 million annually, and 10 to 15 firms in the US$4 to 6 million
range. Competition is intense, and this may have discouraged foreign
firms from bidding for highway contracts in Mexico.
3.22      In 1967, the Government enacted a law establishing uniform procedures
for the registration of contracting firms and for the supervision of public
works. A permanent conmmittee carries out studies and makes recommendations
concerning contract awards, unit prices, specifications and similar matters.
In addition, SOP has an office where contracting firms must be registered.
About 2,000 firms have been registered, and they are obliged to update
registration information annually. Foreign contractors need register only
if awarded a contract; the procedure takes between two and three months.
3.23      Foreign contractors may import their equipment in Mexico under a
temporary admission regime in compliance with the Government's legislation
and administrative procedures.
C. Highway Maintenance
3.24      SOP, through its Directorate for Maintenance of Federal Highways,
is responsible for the maintenance of the Federal highway system. Routine
maintenance is carried out by the Government's own forces and, in general,
is satisfactory. Only major betterment is carried out by contract. The
Directorate, which is well organized and staffed, operates through 16 main-
tenance divisions, each headed by a chief engineer.
3.25      The maintenance, operation and allocation of SOP equipment are
controlled by the Directorate of Equipment and Transportation, which operates
in close cooneration with the Directorate for Maintenance of Federal Highways.
The total estimated depreciated value of the maintenance equipment is US$4n
million, but part of this eouipment needs replacing.
3.26      SOP yearly budzetary allocations are not sufficient to cover the
purchase and replacement of maintenance equipment, and the shortfall has been
covered with foreign loans. In 1963, for instance, the Bank (under Loan
354-?T) financed maintenance equipment worth about US$8 million: in 1969, the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) made a loan which included US$5 million
for maintenance equipment; and, in February 1972, IDB provided US$25.0 million
for the purchase of maintenance and workshop equipment as well as for con-
sti-Ircion of divisional workshops and offices.  However, to bring the pace of
exuipment replacement up to the required level, SOP intends to seek additional
budgetary allocations.
3.27      The growth of the highway network creates the need for a commensurate
growth in maintenance effort. Maintenance expenditures on Federal highways
increased from Ps 259 million (US$20.7 million equivalent) in 1960 to Ps 978
million (US$78.2 million equivalent) in 1972 (Table 8). These amounts covered
some betterment work and the purchase of equipment, but still enabled a satis-
factory level of maintenance to be achieved. During loan negotiations, the
Government confirmed that it will continue to maintain the Federal highway
system adequately.



- 13 -
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Ceneral Description
4.01      The proposed project consists of:
(a)  The widening (including paving) of the following four highways
totaling 201 km:
(1) Monterrey-Linares
(2) Coatzacoalcos-?{inatitlan
(3) Mazatlan-Aeropuerto
(4) Los Reyes-Texcoco-Lecheria
(b)  The construction (including paving) of the following 12
highways totaling 1,674 km:
(5)  Tepalcatepec-Tecalitlan
(6)  Miahuatlan-Santa Elena
(7)  Temascaltepec-Zihuatanejo
(8)  Huixtla-Motozintla-Comalapa
(9)  Maravatio-Zinapecuaro
(10)  Ameca-Puerto Vallarta
(11)  Tlapa-Huamuxtitlan-Tecomatlan
(12)  Naucalpan-Atlacomulco
(13)  Playa Azul-Coahuayana
(14)  Sayula-Rio Uspanapa
(15)  Pochutla-Salina Cruz
(16)  Cuerrero-Nuevo Laredo
4.02      The project highways (Map No. IBRD 10549R) have been selected by the
Oovernment in agreement with the Bank as having high priority within the
Federal highway system. Some of the highways (Nos. (1), (2), (5), (7), (9),
(10), (12), (13), and (16)) are extensions of highways financed under previous
Bank loans and others are connections between such highways. The project will
constitute about 40% of SOP's Federal highway construction program for the
1973-1976 period.
4.03      Design standards generally are shown in Table 10 and specifically
for each road in Table 11. They are similar to those used for previous highway
projects and are satisfactory. The project roads are described in detail in
Chapter 5 and in Annex 2.
B.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursement
4.04      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$241.4 million in-
cluding contingency allowances. Table 12 shows the cost estimates for each



- 14 -
highway and Table 13 the breakdown of construction cost by major items (earth-
works, drainage, etc.) as well as the construction cost per km. A sumnary of
project cost and the foreign exchange component (which the loan will finance)
follows:
Ps millions               US$ millions        Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total Exchange
a. Highways
(i) To be widened    276.2   184.2   460.4    22.1    14.7    36.8   40
(ii) To be
constructed   1,109.7   739.8 1,849.5    88.8    59.2   148.n   40
Sub-total      1,385.9   924.0 2,309.9   110.9    73.9   184.8
b. Contingencies
(i) Physical 10%      138.6    92.4   231.0    11.0        7.5    18.5   40
(ii) Escalation 11.6% 160.8   107.2   268.0    12.8         8.6    21.4   40
Sub-total        299.4   199.6   499.0    23.8    16.1    39.9
Total Construction Cost
(a+b)             1,685.3 1,123.6 2,808.9   134.7    90.0   224.7   40
c. Supervision of
Construction          168.5      -      168.5    13.5      -       13.5   1/
(6% of a + b)
d.  Right-of-Wiay           40.0     -       40.0      3.2     -        3.2   1/
Sub-total           208.5      -     208.5    16.7       -       16.7
Total Project
Cost (a+b+c)          1,893.8 1,123.6 3,017.4   151.4   90.0    241.4
1/   Not financed under the project
4.05      Engineering for the proposed nroject is being carried out by SOP
and local consultants and has been completed for only ten roads.  For the
remaining roads, SOP expects detailed engineering to be completed by various
dates through July 1974. Bridge design is complete for only two roads; for
the remaining roads, it is also expected to be completed by various dates
through Julv 1974. Costs have been estimated by SOP on the basis of completed



- 15 -
detailed engineering for ten roads, on the available engineering information
for the remaining six roads, and on unit prices used for recently awarded con-
tracts for similar works. These estimates are considered reasonable.
4.06      As in previous Bank-financed highway projects, supervision of con-
struction will be carried out by SOP staff, which is well experienced and
competent. The cost of supervision has been estimated at 6% of the construc-
tion cost. Contingency allowances of 10% for quantity increases have been
included as well as an additional 11.6% for price increases; the latter has
been estimated on the basis of a 6.5% average annual increase for local costs
and 7.5% for foreign costs from the time of bidding until completion of con-
struction. These contingency allowances are considered adequate.
4.07      Right-of-way costs amounting to Ps 40 million (US$3.2 million
equivalent) will not be financed by the loan. SOP does not foresee any
difficulties or delays in acquiring the right-of-way for the project roads.
4.08      The foreign exchange component of the construction cost has been
estimated at 40% on the basis of an analysis prepared by SOP. The analysis
has been checked by the Bank and is acceptable. It assumes that the works
will be carried out by firms established in Mexico, as a result of experience
with previous Bank-financed highway projects. The foreign exchange component
for some of the previous Federal highway projects (Loans 268 HE and 354-IE)
was 36%; for the two toll road projects (Loans 317-ME and 401-ME), it was 36.7%
while, for the last Federal highway project (Loan 695-ME), it was reduced to
33%.  The reasons for an increase from 33% to 40% are as follows:
(a) "Second order" foreign exchange costs have been taken into
account. 1/
(b) The cost of fuel and lubricants has been taken as foreign
exchange cost, since, for the last two years, Mexico has
been a net importer of hydrocarbons and petroleum products.
(c) The higher design standards and better specifications in
Bank-financed projects lead to the use of additional and
more sophisticated (imported) equipment. Between 1968 and
1971, imports of highway construction equipment by contractors
increased by 10% of the 1968 figure.
(d) Ten of the roads proposed for construction cross mountainous
and rocky terrain as opposed to only two roads under Loan
695-ME, thus entailing more equipment-intensive work and,
consequently, additional imports of specialized equipment,
tires, spare parts, steel and explosives.
1/   Estimated depreciation of imported capital assets and imported components
of equipment and materials used in local manufacture of light equipment,
cement, tires, and petroleum products.



- 16 -
4.09      The local costs will be met by the Government from budgetary ap-
propriations; recent experience with previous highway projects has shown
that, except for a few months in 1971 when a review of the Government's in-
vestment policies slowed down the pace of works, enough funds have been made
available on a timely basis for execution of project works. The average
yearly investment of about Ps 480 million to cover local costs of project
works would not be a problem for the Government, which is planning outlays
for highways for 1973-1976 in the amount of about Ps 31.7 billion (para. 3.09).
However, the Bank obtained assurances during negotiations that, for the pres-
ent project, adequate funds will be made available promptly as needed.
4.10      SOP has staff competent to supervise the construction of project
wqorks; thus, as for previous Bank loans for roads in Mexico, consultants
will not be employed for supervision; supervision costs will be entirely
financed by SOP.
4.11      Disbursements will be made on the basis of 40% of the expenditures
for civil works contracts (representing the foreign exchange component).
However, since detailed engineering of some project roads is still incomplete,
the disbursement for works on such roads will be conditional upon confirmation
of economic justification, based on the cost estimates that would become avail-
able as the detailed engineering is eventually completed. If the economic
justification is not confirmed, the Government will be permitted to propose
other roads for inclusion in the project, and such roads will be subject to
the same evaluation criteria. Assurances were obtained regarding this matter
during negotiations. Based on the above-mentioned foreign exchange component
and on the proposed execution schedule, an estimated disbursement schedule
has been prepared (Annex 3). Surplus funds remaining in the loan account on
completion of the project will be cancelled.
C.   Execution
4.12      Execution of project works will be the responsibility of SOP through
the Directorate of Federal Highways, which is well organized and staffed
(para. 3.19). In addition, the Control Office (now under the Directorate
General for Programming), which was established in 1967 to ensure that Bank
projects are carried out according to the agreed detailed engineering and
construction schedule, will continue its function for works under the pres-
ent project. The office has, so far, shown satisfactory results in keeping
cost ncreases and construction delays to a minimum.
4.13      Unit price contracts for civil works will he awarded through interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. So far,
foreign participation for highway works in Mexico has been very limited. For
example, the only contract ever awarded to a foreign contractor for all the
Bank's highway projects in Mexico was eight years ago under the second toll
transport project (Loan 401-ME). Nevertheless, to encourage foreign participa-
tion and to maximize competition, several measures were agreed with Govern-
ment for works under Loans 528-ME and 695-ME, mainly:



- 17 -
(a) Contracts will be awarded separately:
(i)  for the major bridges and minor or specialized
works (para. 4.15);
(ii)  for the remaining road works; contracts will be
for complete road sections, i.e., earthworks,
pavement and drainage (in earlier projects, road
wrorks had been contracted "horizontally", i.e.,
separate contracts for earthworks and drainage and
for pavement).
(b) Contracts will be awarded for the total bid amount,
instead of for the annual budgetary allocations.
4.14      It is likely that project works will he carried out by local contractors
(para. 4.08). However, in order to attract foreign bidders, invitations to bid
will he issued on the basis of "packaging" of contracts, wTherebv contractors
can bid for one or several sections of a road as a package. Contracts will be
awarded to the lowest evaluated bid for the package or to the lowest evaluated
combination of bids for its sections. Table 14 shows the breakdown of sec-
tions on which each road has been subdivided. The amount of the contracts
varies from about US$1.2 million to about US$7.2 million. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that bidding will be carried out on the basis
of "packaging" of contracts.
4.15      As for previous Bank projects, construction of bridges over 15 m
span, and traffic signals and other minor or specialized works will not be
included in the highway contracts, since !Yexico's experience is that, because
of the existence of firms specializing in bridge works, major bridge construc-
tion tends to be cheaper if bid directly rather than as part of a road contract.
Fence, contracts for these works, together accounting for about 10% of the
project cost (about Ps 303 million, or US$24 million equivalent), will be
bid separately from the road contracts. Because these works are tmlikely
to attract firms not already established in the country, the bids will be
advertised locally onlv.  This procedure would not, of course, exclude par-
ticipation by foreign bidders although it is unlikely that they would show
interest.
4.16      Notwithstanding a high unemnloyment rate, labor intensive techniques
have not been used for the civil works design because the Government does not
favor substitution of labor for equipment in works of this magnitude. This
has been confirmed by SOP on the basis of the likely effects of higher financial
costs and, possibly, loxwer quality work. In light of the above, the designs
and detailed engineering for the proposed prolect were nrenared by the Govern-
ment on the basis of normal eouipment usage by contractors. To cope at least
in part with the unemnloyment problem, the Government is conducting a program
of public works which incltldes a heavy component of feeder roads to be carried
out bv hand labor (para. 3.10).



- 18 -
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
5.01      The Mexican Government is facing various problems in extending
or improving the Federal highway network: (a) a few roads already operating
at, or nearly at, canacitv should he widened from two to four lanes (in 1971,
more than 2% of the Federal highway network had an ADT higher than 4,500 vehi-
cles (para. 3.05); (b) new roads should be built to reduce distance, when
justified by the traffic demand, between two areas or two cities; develop-
ment will be accelerated in the areas crossed by the new roads; and (c) new
roads should be constructed to open up new areas in order to increase agri-
cultural production, more precisely in areas where water supply is easily
available at acceptable cost, and to help reduce the demand in the center
plateau of the country where water is scarce.
5.02      The proposed project represents about 40% of the total Federal
highway construction program during the period 1973-1976; it comprises
construction of the three categories of roads described above, and, despite
not having been selected from a highway master plan, the roads included in
the proposed project have evident high priority. Four roads totaling 201 km
(total cost US$44.8 million equivalent) will be widened from two to four
lanes; eight new roads totaling 1,035 km (total cost US$113.7 million) will
link major areas, and four roads totaling 639 km (total cost US$66.2 million
equivalent) will open new agricultural areas.
5.03      For the first two categories of roads described above, the bene-
fits have been computed by considering the savings in vehicle operating
cost.  Time savings for passengers have been included in the economic eval-
uation of the roads to be widened from two to four lanes, such improvement
resulting in much higher speed. This time element is not significant for the
other roads and has not been taken into account in the computation of the
benefits. The economic evaluation of the third category of road construc-
tion has been computed by considering the agricultural development and the
savings in vehicle operating cost for the transit traffic. The traffic
forecast for the 12 roads of categories (a) and (b) described in paragraph
5.01 (Table 15) has been computed by considering the average yearly increase
on the existing roads during the last 10 years, the normal yearly traffic
increase observed in the already paved roads in the same region as the
projected road, and the economic potential of the area served by the pro-
posed road. The annual growth of traffic ranges between 8% and 12%. The
economic return of the pronosed roads ranges from 10% to 41% with a weighted
average of about 23% (if passenger time savings are excluded, the weighted
average is 20%).
5.04      In the case of widening from two to four lanes, the direct bene-
fits resulting from the project should go mainly to the vehicle owners, in
particular to the truckers, because the present official tariff does not allow



- 19 -
any reduction when the quality of the road is improved (para. 3.06); neverthe-
less, keen competition among truckers might result in some of the benefits
being passed on to the users. The detailed analysis of the economic impact
of the present road regulations in Mexico (para. 3.06) should clarify the problem
and give adequate recommendations for obtaining a more equitable distribution
of the benefits, if necessary. The direct benefits of the construction of the
other roads will be split between the vehicle owners, the users and the local
workers (by raising the minimum wage actually paid in the regions crossed by
the new roads, see paragraph 5.11).
B. Widening of Four Roads from Two to Four Lanes
5.05      As already mentioned (para. 5.01), some roads are operating at capa-
city or close to that condition, particularly near the big cities. The roads
included in the proposed project have been selected because of their heavy
traffic volumes. The improvement of these four roads will, by increasing the
average speed of the vehicles and decreasing congestion, reduce vehicle oper-
ating costs and traveling time (Table 16). For each road, the average speed
was computed for each year with and without the project, taking into consider-
ation the traffic forecast and the characteristics of the road and using the
speed/flow tables based on the Highway Capacity MAnual.
(1) Monterrey-Linares - 101 km
5.06      This road links Mexico's first industrial center, Monterrey, to
Linares, also an important industrial center, and crosses two areas of
citrus production (Allende and Montemorelos). The first section of the
Monterrey-Montemorelos road, 53 km, with about 4,500 vehicles per day, is
already saturated, with an average car speed of about 57 km. The traffic,
which is increasing very quickly (about 14% a year since 1964), is forecast
to reach 38,000 vehicles by 1996. This section needs to be widened from
two to four lanes in order not to delay the industrial development of
Monterrey.  The Government had initially planned to widen the second sec-
tion of the road also (Montemorelos-Linares, 48 km), but the present traf-
fic (only 1,850 vpd) does not justify the widening, and it was subsequently
agreed only to improve the existing two-lane road. The economic return of
the widening of the first section is 32% and that for the improvement of the
second section is about 17%. The economic return of the whole project is
about 28%. Without considering passenger time savings, the economic return
is about 23% for the first section and about 11% for the second section.
(2) Coatzacoalcos-Minatitlan - 22 km
5.07      This road links the important industrial center of Minatitlan with
the port of Coatzacoalcos on the Gulf of Mexico. Various petroleum indus-
tries set up in Coatzacoalcos use the fuel production of the important
refinery (175,000 barrels per day) of Minatitlan.  More than 40% of the
active population living in the area of the proposed road work in the petro-
leum sector, and the traffic between Coatzacoalcos and Minatitlan (7,600



- 20 -
vehicles per day in 1973) is increasing very rapidly (about 12% per year
since 1964). It is vital that this road be widened from two to four lanes
in order not to hinder the economic development of the area. The economic
return of the road, considering only the vehicle operating cost and the pas-
senger time saving, is about 41%. Without considering passenger time savings,
the economic return is about 25%.
(3) Mazatlan-Aeropuerto - 14 km
5.08      This road links the airport of Mazatlan with the city.  The traf-
fic from the airport is mixed with the traffic from Durango, an important
industrial center about 300 km east of Mazatlan. Mazatlan is an important
touristic center (about 60,000 foreign tourists in 1972), and the traffic
from the airnort has been increasing rapidly to reach about 3,400 vehicles
per day in 1973.  The road is nearly saturated and has to be widened from
two to four lanes in order to support the forecast traffic of about 24,000
vehicles per day by 1996. Even though the present traffic seems rather
low, the widening of this road is economically justifiable, with first
vear benefits of about 15% and an economic return of about 31%. Without
considering passenger time savings, the economic return is about 21%.
(4) Los Reves-Texcoco-Lecheria - 64 km
5.09      This road links two Federal highways, Indios Verdes-Piramides-
Tulancingo and Mexico-Zacatepec-Jalapa, and constitutes a half-beltway around
Mexico City. In a poor condition, the existing road is nearly saturated,
particularly between Los Reyes and Texcoco (21 km) where the ADT reached
11,500 vehicles in 1973 (the traffic averaged 7,600 vpd in the Texcoco-Lecheria
section). This traffic is increasing very quickly (more than 12% per annum
since 1964) and, with a reasonable annual rate of growth of about 9% per year
during the 20-vear life of the project, will reach more than 83,000 and
67,000 vpd on each of the above-mentioned sections. Without the project,
the average speed for cars will be reduced from 51 km per hour in 1973 to
34 km by 1996; meanwhile, with the project, the average speed (70 km at the
opening of the road) will only be reduced to 43 km per hour by 1996. The
project will help to develop milk production in the Texcoco area. The
economic return of the road improvement, considering reduction in vehicle
operating cost and time savings, is about 36%. IWithout considering passenger
time savings, the economic return is about 22%.
C.  Construction of New Links between Important Areas
5.10      The origin-destination survey carried out by SOP since 1969 shows
that the traffic between numerous cities of the country is increasing in
such a way as to justify either paving existing earth or gravel roads or
building new direct links between the cities. These new roads will have
two series of benefits: (a) by reducing the transport cost between the
two terminal points, the economic interchanges between them will be increased;



-21- -
and (b) by opening new areas, substantial social benefits will be created,
although these social benefits have not been included in the economic justifi-
cation (para. 5.11). Eight roads in this category have been included in the
proiect and the economic evaluations computed by considering only the quantif-
iable benefits resulting from reduced vehicle operating cost without consider-
ing passenger time saving (Tables 16 and 17). The traffic forecasts include
generated traffic to take care of the developmental impact of the new
roads. This generated traffic is due to reduction in the vehicle operating
cost between the two terminals and the economic development of the area crossed
by the road (mainly agricultural development).
5.11      The benefits resulting from the new roads will largely be trans-
ferred to the local workers indirectly, particularly by permitting an
increase of the minimum wage actually paid. Studies carried out by SOP show
that, in an area not served by an all-weather road, the minimum wage actually
paid is between 75 and 80% of the official minimum wage of the area. The
eight linking roads included in the proposed project will serve about 1.1
million people, of which a minimum of 100,000 receive the minimum salary and
may have a salary increase of up to 20%. The total increase in salary may
equal about 25% of the total benefits resulting from reduced vehicle operat-
ing cost. This represents only a transfer of benefits to local workers and
therefore has not been included in the economic justification of the roads.
(5) Tepalcatepec-Tecalitlan - 96 km
5.12      The proposed road will link together the three important areas
of Tepalcatepec, Jilotlan and Tecalitlan. Already 280 vehicles per day are
circulating on a very poor earth road. The new link will permit a sub-
stantial increase in agricultural production in the area of Jilotlan and
wqill reduce the distance of transport between Morelia east of Tepalcatepec
and the port of Manzanillo. Despite the very bad condition of the road,
its traffic has been increasing by about 10% per year since 1964. Traffic
should increase at the same rate to reach about 4,000 vehicles per day by
1996. The economic return of the road improvement is about 19%.
(6) 'fiahuatlan-Santa Elena - 111 km
5.13      This road, together with the Puerto Escondido-Pochutla road
presentlv under construction along the Pacific coast, will link the impor-
tant center of Oaxaca with the two touristic centers of Puerto Escondido
and Puerto Angel; the Government is planning to build an international
airport in Santa Elena. The existing earth road between Oaxaca and Puerto
Escondido and the g'ravel road between Miahuatlan and Puerto Angel are in
very poor condition. Traffic between Oaxaca and Puerto Escondido (about
93 vehicles per dav) and Oaxaca and Puerto Angel (about 186 vehicles per
day), although not very important, is increasing rapidly and is expected
to reach 875 vehicles and 1,750 vehicles, respectively, bv 1996. Presently,
there are about 20,000 inhabitants in the area to be crossed by the road
who will benefit directly from the road. The economic return of the
proDosed road construction is about 25%.



- 22 -
(7)  Temascaltepec-Zihuatanejo - 306 km
5.14      This proposed road will link the capital, Mexico City, with the
new touristic area of Zihuatanejo, where a tourism project is being financed
bv the Bank under Loan 793-MF. The proposed road would reduce the distance
of transport between Mlexico City and Zihuatanejo by about 215 km (the present
traffic from Mexico City must go through Acanulco), and thus, by reducing the
cost of transport, the road would increase the importance of local tourism.
The proposed road will cross a fertile valley around Ciudad Altamirano and
the forest center of Vicente Guerrero in Sierra Madre del Sur where the
National Program of Forest Development forecasts the production of 1.5 mil-
lion cubic meters of pine timber and the creation of 6,000 jobs. This road
might also be considered as an additional facility for the transportation of
the production ef the Las Truchas steel factory. Traffic, estimated at 185
vehicles per day in 1973, will reach 3,300 vehicles by 1996. The economic
return of the construction of the proposed road is about 21%.
(8) Huixtla-Motozintla-Comalapa - 111 km
5.15      This proposed road will link the coastal highway along the Pacific
with the Ciudad Cuauhtemoc-Tuxtla Gutierrez highway and will run along
the Guatemalan border, crossing the richest coffee-producing land in Mexico.
Coffee export is very important in Mexico; the proposed road will permit
utilization of fertilizer, better seed and mechanical equipment and will
thus considerably improve the productivity per hectare of the Comalapa
area, which it partly crosses. In 1972, this region contributed about 30%
of the national coffee production. The proposed road will also facilitate
control along the Guatemalan border and will help to reduce smuggling.
About 300 vehicles per day are now traveling on a very poor earth road,
and the traffic is expected to reach 2,800 vehicles per day by 1996. The
economic return of the road construction is about 21,%.
(9 and 12)     Maravatio-Zinapecuaro and Naucalpan-Atlacomulco - 144 km
5.16      The construjction of these two proposed roads will reduce the
length between the two important cities of Morelia and Mtexico City from
313 km to 272 kin.  Part of the traffic of the already saturated Toluca-
Mexico road will be transferred to the new proposed roads. The proposed
project will also constitute a direct access to Mexico City for the agri-
culr-T'ral production of the area crossed by the two sections, more sreci-
fically for the dairy products.  The traffic between Morelia and ?fexico City
has been increasing at about 11%' per annum to reach 890 vehicles per day
in 1973.  All this traffic is supposed to be transferred to the new align-
ment and is supposed to reach 8,000 vehicles per day by 1996.  The economic
return of the construction of the two roads is about 327.



- 23 -
(1) Anieca-Puerto Vallarta - 180 knT
5.17      The proposed road is a section of the Guadalajara-Puerto Vallarta
road and will connect with the Puerto Vallarta-Barra de Navidad road
(financed bv the Bank under Loans 354-1FW (construction) and 695-TF (paving)).
The road will assist in developing tourism in the Puerto Vallarta area by
reducinP the distance between Guada'aJara and Puerto Vallarta from. 340 km
to ahout 25n km..  The touristic development of the area sustained bv the
Covernment will nermit the local population to narticipatp directlv (a) by
sharing the ownership of the touristic exploitation once the money lent bv
n Covernment Bank is reimbursed and (h) by working in the tourism industries
aftpr training, also financed by the Government.  Present traffic between
Guadalniara an(d Puerto V'allarta is about 4,r000 vehicles per day.  A larRe
part of this will be transferred to the new road, and traffic is forecast
to reach about 13,900 vehicles Der dav bv 1996.  The economic return of the
proposed road construction is about 27%.
(11) Tlpa-Puamuxtitlan-Tecomatlan - 87 km
5.18      The proposed road will link Tlapa with Las Penas, located on the
Oaxaca-Mexico road. At the present time, all production of the area to
be served by the road is transported to Acapulco. The new road will pro-
vide access to the very important market of Mexico City. Traffic on the
existing, pravel road (about 125 vehicles per day) has been increasing by
about 11.95% ner annun since 1964 and, with a reasonahle increase of about
9% per annum, will reach 1,450 vehicles by 1996. The economic return of
the road construction is about 15%,.
D.  Apricultural Development Roads
5.19      Four of the 16 roads to be financed under the project are par-
tiallv or entirely justified on the basis of the agricultural development
of the area of influence of the roads. The proposed roads will basically
benefit some 10,000 to 12,000 small independent farmers, ejidatarios 1/ and
comnuneros 2/ who possess most of the land in the areas of influence of the
roads, as well as some 85,000 inhabitants of the nronosed roads' areas of
influence.  This component of the project would complement the efforts of the
Mexican Government and international lendinp institutions, including the Bank,
to provide credit and technical. services to rural low-income producers. As
indicated in the anrraisal report of the 7ank's Pourth Livestock and Agri-
cultural Develonment Project for MTexico (T.oan No. qi10-MF), there are now
many institutions and resources dedicated to this obiective; thLe proDosed
roads would facilitate their action and the marketing of the increased pro-
diction.
1/   Peasant farmers with usufruct rights to a parcel of Government land.
2/  M"embers of a group of peasants who occupy and work land on a communal
basis. Their claim to the land is based on tradition respected by
agrarian reform laws since 1917.



- 24 -
j.? 21)   For the economic evaluation of the roads, the benefits taken into
accoutrt arc: (a) the benefits from savings in vehicle operating cost of the
transit traffic, and (b) the value added accruing from incremental production
attributalble to the construction of the roads. The agricultural production
has been comnuted with and without the project by assuming that, without the
propose(I roads and the associated small irrigation works, the local farmers
~Tould not be motivated to increase their production, which would therefore
remain practically constant, as has been the situation during the last few
vears.  The investments taken into account include both road construction
and acricultural investments (on farm investments plus small irrigation
works).
5.21      Total copl,Tmentary agricultural investments should amount to
12SS33.6 million equivalent (Table 13).  They include the following irriga-
tion wrorks to he financed directly hy the Government and on-farm. investments:
(a)  Abtout 13,200 hectares (ha) of land are sunposed to
he irrigated alonF three of the project roads 1/ with
a total cost of about PIS85.1 million to be directly
financed by the rovernment. The worl will begin
after opening of the roads and is prolected to be
fully completed in five or six years (Table 18).
(b)  On-farm investment will amount to about UISS2q.5 million,
including, inter alia, crops and pasture estahlishment,
purchase of breeding animals, fencing, land shaping
installations on farm roads, etc. About 85% of the
investments will be financed through the Mexican
Development Banks, with the remainder being financed
directly by the farmers. These farm investments
wqould take place during the first 13 years of the life
of the roads (see detail of agricultural investments
iTI Table 18).
5.22      The on-farm investments are very small. comnared4 to the agricultural
program presently financed by the Ye.xican Development Banks (more than US$725
millions in 1971, considering only the public banks). Financing for these
investments wqill. be easily availah1.e if drastic change does not occur in the
agricultural development policy presentlv followed by the Covernment; how-
evrr. during nevotiations, the Government provided an adenuate statement that
the irrtication works associated with the project roads are included in its
lonrg terni progranm and that it intends to carry out such works in due time.
(13) Plava Aztil-Coabuayana - 203 km
5.23      This proposed road will run along the Pacifir Coast and, with the
proposed Pochutla-Salina Cruz road (para. 5.25) will complete the Pacific
1/   About 4,000 ha along the Playa Azul-Coahuayana road, about 4,000 ha
along the Pochutla-Salina Cruz road and about 5,200 ha along the Nuevo
Laredo-Guerrero road.



- 25 -
coastal highwav (a large part of which has been financed bv previous Bank
loans). The area of influence of the new road is estimated to cover about
35fl,000 ha, 220,000 of which will be utilized for agricultural production
and cattle Pasturing. In accordance with Government plans, 4,000 ha would
be put into irrigation and used for fruit and vegetable production. An
addiitional 5,700 ha will be used for rain-fed crops. For livestock, an incre-
mental. production of Ps 20 million is forecast for the 18th year of the
project (see details in Annex 4). The proposed road will generate transit
traffic estimated at 1,500 vehicles per day by 1996.  By considering the
agriculttural benefits and the savings in vehicle operatine cost for the
transit traffic, the economic return is about 11%; 387 of the benefits
will come from agricultural developrent.
(14) Sayula-Rio lTspanapa - 120 km
5.2/      The proposed road will open a new area of about 2PO,000 ha.  The
birgest potential of the road's area of influence is for the production of
beef.  Similar areas of the same region with existing roads are being served
with technical assistance and credi.t and are having a very impressive
develonment. The area within the first 2n km of the projected road (not
consfdered as an area of influence of the new road) is now being develoned.
The projections hasically foresee accelerated develonment and increased
beef production, with some r.il1 production as a bvproduct.  It' is assuimed
that no less than 100,00() hn will be involved with cattle raising by the
16tlh year after road construction. With regard to crops, it is estimated
tlhat nroduiction x7ill. rise only in accordance with the needs of the increased
poptilation in the area of influence, except for rice and some citrus trees,
for which there might be some commercial production not considered in this
projection of economic benefits because of the lack of proper information
(see details in Annex 4). Considering only agricultural development bene-
fits, the econoTnic return for the total program (including agricultural
investment) is ahnut 15'..
(15) Pcht1ltn-Sqalina Cruz - 1.5 lm
This proposed road will run alonng the Pacific Coast and will.
cross thle Chontal area in the State of naxaca.  The road wou]ld have direct
imnict on the nriricultural produlctinn of some ?f6,(Ofl ha.  'lfoqt of the
agricultural increase in nroduction woTuld cone from abourt 4,n n ha of land
to he irrianted during the first year of the road construction (see details
in Annex 4).  The pronosed project would also generate transit traffic,
(iel, rainlv to tile touristic development of the area, estimated at 220 vehi.-
cles per dav dtiriil,g thle first year of rond opening.  This traffic should
reaclh about 950 vehi c-cles ner day by 1996.  Consi6ering the agricultural
benefits and. savi-ng in vehicle onerating cost for the transit traffic, the
economic return is abhout 107: 70% of the benefits will. come from agricul-
tural develoTnent.



- 26 -
(16) Guerrero-Nuevo Laredo - 131 km
5.26      Tho proposed road will run alone the border with the United States
an_d will link Nuevo Laredo with Piedras Negras.  The area of influence of
the new road is estimated to cover some 270,000 ha, 6,000 of which are
authorized to be irrigated. The construction of the road, in conjunction
with the Government's action now in progress to rehabilitate the ejidatarios
and to enforce a 1971 law regarding absentee land owners, will induce farm
owners to put into irrigation the 6,000 ha which have water rights. On
the other hand, the increased prices for beef, and the technical and finan-
cia]. assistance which will be enabled to be provided as a result of better
communications, will encourage investments for watering facilities, improved
pasture establishment, improved breeding stock and other items necessary
to increase productivity of the livestock farms (see details in Annex 4).
The road will also attract a large part of the traffic presently going
throuth the United States between Nuevo Laredo and Piedras Neeras by reduc-
inc the distance between the two town.s from 201 km. to 182 km.  Present traf-
fic (about 60 vehicles per day) is forecast to reach about 450 vehicles
bv 1996. Considering the agricultural benefits and reduction in vehicle
onerating cost for the transit traffic, the economic return is about 137;
67% of the benefits will come from agricultural development.
F. SensitivityvAnalysis
5.27      Table 19 gives a sensitivity analysis carried out for all project
roads.  It shows that, even with cost increases of 15' or benefits decreas-
ing by 25%, the project roads are generally economicatly justified.
6.  ACREFMPNTS REACFED A1D RECOMMMNDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following principal points:
(a) UIndertakinp a study of the economic consequences of the
road transnort regulations, the details and conclusions
of which will be discussed with the Bank (para. 3.06);
(b)  Makine adequate funds for the present project available
promptlv as needed (pnra. 4.09);
(c)  Disbursing for works on roads for which detailed encineer-
ing is not comnleted to be conditional upon confirmation of
the economic justification based on cost estimates result-
inc- from comnleted detailed engineering (para. 4.11): and
(d)  Fidding to he carried out on the basis of "packaping,! of
contracts (para. 4.14).



- 27 -
f,.')2    During negotiptions, the Government submitted concrete proposals
accortahle to the BanI. on the steps it xrill take for effective planning in
t'mP transport sector (Para. 2.16) and provided an adecuate statement that
the irrigation works associated with the project roads are included in its long
term program and that it intends to carry out such works in due time (para.5.22).
6.fl3     The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of ITSS9O.fl
million for a term of 25 years, including a five-year grace neriod.
Tantiary 21, 1974






TABLE 1
MEXICO
SEVENTH HIGHWfAY PROJECT
Railway Statistics 1960-1972
Total Length of       Passenger Traffic                  Freight Traffic
Railway Routes      Millions of   Millions of          Millions    Millions
Year                (km)             Passengers    Passenger-km          of Tons    of Ton -km
1960              23,368                32.6          4.127              32.2         14,004
1961              23,487                34.5          4,288              30.6         13,524
1962              23,501                34.5          3,770              30.6         13,521
'963              23,793                35.7          3,898              34.2         14,960
1964              23,618                37.5          4,097              37.4          16,330
1965              23,672                37.3          3,881              41.0         18,326
1966              23,826                38.0          4,067              42.4         18,418
1967              23,977                38.9          4,252              43.4         19,732
1968              24,129                38.8          4,398              44.3          20,654
1969              24,119                39.5          4,633              46.9          21,577
1970              24,468                37.4          4,534              46.8          22,863
2171             24,508                33.5          4,362              48.4          22,374
1972              24,508                33.7          4,485              49.4         23,873
Sources: SOT and SOP
August 1973



TABLE 2
MEXICO
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Air Traffic-Passenger Kilometers 1960 1972
(Ydilliori)
Year             National             ITternational           Total
1960               676                    .1,524              2,200
1961               629                     1,911              2,540
1962             1,042                     1,760              2,802
1963             1,213                     1,939              3,152
1964             1,624                     2,706              4,330
1965             2,834                     2,103              4,937
1966             2,O57                     2,548              4,605
1967             3,041                     3,054              6,095
1968             2,341                     3,744              6,085
1969             2,792                     3,987              6,779
1970             2,932                     4,002              6,934
1971             3,638                     4,675              8,313
1972             4,453                     6,079             10,532
Source: Direccion de Aviacion Civil (SCT)
August 1973



TABLE 3
M E X I C 0
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJkCT
Transport Investments
1965-1972
Financed with
Investments        Internal  External
Ps.million   Percentage   Credit    Credit
Highways       22,285         56%        26,       1WI'
Railways       10,354         26%        33%       28,
Airports        4,450                     45       24/
Ports           2,h12       t18%         21%       20%
Various           650         -           -
TOTAL   40,151       100/a O                20%
Source: Secretariat of the Presidency and SOP
September 1973



TABLE: 
MEXICO
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Iength of Highways 1960-1972
(In kilometers)
Year       Federal       Toll         State         Local         Total
1960        21.,495      296          20,243        2,920         44,954
1961        23,647       296          22,396.       3,267         49,606
1962        23,685       452          27,093        3,310         54,540
1963        23,723       452          28,503        4,360         57,038
1964        24,663       498          29,514        5,765         60,440
1965        25,195       555          28,807        6,695         61,252
1966        25,773       741          31,361        5,826         63,701
1967        26,042       886          31,302        6,865         65,095
1968        27,054       961          31,105        7,937         67,057
1969        28,287     1,010          31,930        8,554         69,781
1970        29,141      1,002         32,365        9,012         71,520
1971        30,516      1,002         32,952        9,582         74,052
1972        34,216      1,002         35,069       54,10LW      124,391
1/ Including roads built by hand labor.
Source: SOP
October 1973



TABLE 5
M .E X I C O
SEVENI'H HIGHWAY PROJECT
Densities of the Highway Network 1972
% of     km of roads  km of
Industrial    per 000    roads   Inhabitan,s
States                   km of Roads    %      Out ut    inhabitants  per km       per km
Aguascalientes                       672      0.9      0.3          1.99      0.121       60.5
Baja California                    1,753      2.4      1.8          2.02      0.025       12.4
Baja California T.                   723      1.0      0.2          5.65      0.010
Campeche                           1,332      1.8      0.3          5.29      0.026        4.9
Coahuila                           3,681      5.0      5.0          3.30      0.025        7.4
Colima                               592      0.8      0.1          2.46      0.109       44.2
Chiapas                            2,636      3.5      0.3          1.68      0.036       21.2
Chihuahua                          3,035      4.1      2.7          1.88      0.012        6.5
Distrito Federal                     631      0.8     36.3          0.09      0.424   4,585.8
Durango                            2,570      3.5      0.9          2.74      0.022        7.9
Guanajuato                         2,049      2.8      1.9          0.90      0.068       74.2
Guerrero                           2,094      2.8      0.3          1.31      0.033       25.0
Hidalgo                            2,354      3.2      1.3          1.97      0.113       56.9
Jalisco                            3,866      5.2      4.9          1.17      o.o04       41.1
Mexico                             3,841      5.2     15.1          1.00      0.181      178.6
Michoacan                          4,061      5.5      1.0          1.75      o.o68       38.8
Morelos                              943      1.3      0.7          1.53      0.195      124.7
Nayarit                            1,237      1.7      0.4          2.27      0.045       1'i.7
Nuevo Leon                         2,920      3.9     10.7          1.72      0.046       26.3
Oaxaca                             3,368      4.5      0.5          1.67      0.036       21.1
Puebla                             2,595      3.5      2.6          1.04      0.077       74.0
Queretaro                            949      1.3      o.8          1.95      0.081       41.3
<uintana Roo                         842      1.1      0.0          9.57      0.017        1.8
San Luis Potosi                    2,177      2.9      1.1          1.70      0.035       20.4
Sinaloa                            2,485      3.4      1.3          1.96      0.043       21.8
Sonora                             4,384      5.9      1.7          3.39      0.024        5.9
Tabasco                            2,079      2.8      0.1          2.71      0.085       31.2
Tamaulipas                         3,207      4.3      1.4          2.20      0.041       18.3
Tlaxcala                             646      0.9      0.3          1.53      0.168      107.5
Veracruz                           5,974      8.1      4.8          1.58      0.083       52.i
Yucatan                            1,938      2.6      0.9          2.56      0.050       19.3
Zacatecas                          2,418      3.3      0.3          2.54      0.033       12.7
Mexico                            74,052   100.0%   100.0%          1.54       0.038      24.5
-Source: SOP
August 1973



TABLE 6
MEXICO
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Number of Motor Vehicles Registered 1960-1972
Year        Automobiles           Buses            Trucks         Total
1960          483.1               26.1             293.4          802.6
1961          520.7               33.4             300.2          854.3
1962          548.2               26.1             327.9          902.2
1963          618.0               27.6             352.7          998.3
1964          687.8               29.5             364.1        1,081.4
1965          771.1               30.7             388.1        1,189.9
1966          812.4               27.5             408.5        1,248.4
1967          917.4               27.6             440.3        1,385.3
1968          999.9               29.4             465.8        1,495.1
1969        1,133.1               31.5             505.8        1,670.4
1970        1,233.8               33.1             525.0        1,791.9
1971        1,338.4               34.5             554.5        1,927.4
1972        1,520.1               35.7             592.8        2,148.6
Source: Anuario Estadfstico de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos
and S.O.P.
August 1973



TABLE 7
MEXIOO
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Consumption of Gasolime and Diesel 1960-1972
(Thousand of m3)
Gasoline          Die sel
1960              4459               _
1961              4728              2061
1962              4830             2285
1963              4997             2506
1964              5401             2891
1965              5659             2783
1966              6004             3336
1967              6545             3588
1968              7200             3985
1969              8132             4462
1970              9554             4834
1971              9387             4800
Source: SOP
October 1973



TABLE 8
MEXICO
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Expenditures 1960-197' j
("s mll lions)
Federal                     Toll                    State and Local
Con-                       Con-                         Con-
Years  stracti6n   Maintenance  struction    Maintenance   struction  Maintenance   Total
1960     366           259          57               2          224           33          941
1961     247           237         149              12          220          39           90L
1962     362           285          92              13         212           50         1,014
1963     403           308         120              21          265          58         1,175
1964     521           432         273              27          397          66         1,716
1965     470           374         295              25         474           66         1,704
1966     564           346         397              39          391           90        1,627
1967     509           383         380              52         415           84         1,823
1968     444           409         271              46         516           92         1,778
1969     543           680         128             106         622          111         2,190
1970     446           663          93             127          709         143         2,181
1971     922           863           2             127         884          166         2,964
1972    12-2           978          10             151        228 -/        200         4,894
1/ Including Administration Cost
2/ Including Ps 723 million for roads built by hand labor
Source: SOP
October 1973



TABIE 9
MEXICO
SZVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road User Charges 1969-i972
1969      1970       1971       197 7-
(millions of pesos)
Gasoline Taxes            2s,032    2,075       2,250      2,567
Diesel (aubsidised)        (130)      (147)      (152)      (158)
Other Federal Taes         667        732        760        889
Tbon Roads                  347       407         449        492
Taxes levied by States   _429         767        552         799
TOTAL:        ---2.345    3,83L4     3.859      _4_89_
HighwW Rtpenditures       2,190      2,181      2,964      4,894
A    Preliminary estimate.
Sources:  Departamento do Eatudios Econ6zicos de la Direcci6n General de
Estudios Hacendarios, SG y CP.; Inversi6n Pdblica Federal 1965-1970,
Direcci6n de Inversiones Pdblicas, Secretaria de la Presidencia;
lnversi6n Pdblica Federal 1971. 1973 -  uadro  Generales, Secretaria
de la Presidencia, Direcci6n de Inversiones    licasA.
October 1973



TABLE -10
MEXICO
ShVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards
Flat and
Rolling   Hilly         Medium         Heavy
Geometric Design       Unit   Country   Country    Mountainous   Mountainous
Special Type
Design speed                     km/h   110        90           70            60
Width of roadway
two lanes                      Meter  9 to 13   9 to 13       9 to 13       9 to 13
four lanes                     Meter  21.8       21.8         21.8          21.8
Width of surfacing
two lanes                      Meter  7.3       7.3           7.3           7.3
four lanes                     Meter  2 x 7.5   2 x 7.5       2 x 7.5       2 x 7.5
Kinimum radius of curvature      Meter  381.97    251           145           105
Maximum grade                      %     4.0       5.0          5.5           6.0
T2ype C (Tertiary)
DesLgn speed                     km/h   70         60           40            30
Widctn of roadway                Meter  7.0        7.0          7.0           7.0
,ni't,n of surfacing             Meter  6.10       6.10         6.10          6.10
Minirwxm radius of curvature     Meter  143.24    104.13        44.07         24-38
Maximum grade                      %    5.0        6.0          7.0           9.0
Load Design for bridges: H20-S15 (AASHO)
Source: SOP
Uece)ne' i973



TABLE 11
MEXICO
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Highways: Length, Type and Surface
A. - Highways to be widened                         Length in km.   See   a1e 10   Surfacing
1. - Monterrey-Linares                             101            spl.           AC
2. - Coatzacoalcos-Minatitlan                       22            spl.           AC
3. - Mazatlan-Aeropuerto                            14            spl.           AC
4. - Los Reyes-Texcoco-Lecheria                     64            spl.           AC
Sub-total     201
B. - Highways to be constructed
g. - Tepalcatepec-Tecalitlan                        96             C             SST
6.-  Miahuatlan-Sta- Elena                         III             C             SST
7. - Temascaltepec-Zihua+.aneTh                    306             C            DST
8. - Huixtla-Motozintla-Comalapa                   111              C            DST
9. - Maravatio-Zinapecuaro                          42             C             AC
10. - Ameca-Puerto Vallarta                         180             C             DST
11. - Tlapa-Huamuxtitlan-Tecomatlan                  87             C             SST
12. - Naucalpan-Atlacomulco                         102             C             AC
13. - Playa Azul-Coahuayana                         203             C             SST
14. - Sayula-Rio Uspanapa                           120              C            DST
15. - Pochutla-Salina Cruz                          185             C             DST
16. - Guerrero-Nuevo Laredo                         131              C            DST
Sub-total    1674
Total    187
1/ SST - Single Surface Treatment
DST - Double Surface Treatment
AC - Asphaltic Concrete
Source: SOP
October 1973



MiXCO
SEVENTH HIGhWAY PROJECT
Cost Estimate of Project Highways
Con-           Contingencies
Ingth        struction     Physical   Escalation
km             Cost          10%        11.6%          Sub-total      Total
- Pesos Millions --------------------------
Highways
(a) To be widened
1.  Monterrey-Linares                    101            150.3          15.0       17.4             32.4           182.7
2.  Coatzacoalcos-Minatitlan              22             55.5           5.6        6.4             12.0            67.5
3. Mazatlan-Aeropuerto                    14             20.4           2.0        2.4              4.4            24.8
4. Los Reyes-Texcoco-Lecheria             64            234.2          23.4       27.2                            284.8
201            460.4          46.0       53.4             99.4          559.8
(b) To be constructed
5. Tepalcatepec-Tecalitlan               96            111.7         U1.2        13.0             24.2           135.9
6.  Miahuatlan-Santa Elena              111            133.3          13.3       15.5             28.8           162.1
7.  Temascaltepec-Zihuatanejo           306            344.1          34.4       39.9             74.3           418.4
8. Huixt1a-Motozintla-Comalapa          111            141.7          14.2       16.4             30.6           172.3
9. Maravato- Zinapecuaro                42             27.9           2.8        3-3              6.1            34.0
10. Ameca-Puerto Vallarta                180            250.4          25.0       29.0             54.0           304.4
11.  Tlapa-Huamuxtitlan-Teconatlan        87             92.5           9.3       10.7             20.0           112.5
12. Naucalpan-Atlacouulco                102             67.0           6.7        7.9             14.6            81.6
13. Playa Azul-Coahuayana                203            302.1          30.2       35.0             65.2           367.3
14. Sayula-Rio Uspanapa                  120            105.3          10.5       12.2             22.7           128.0
15. PochutMa-Salina Cruz                 185            192.6          19.3       22.3             41.6           234.2
16. Guerrero-Nuevo Laredo                131             80.9           8.1                        17.5            98.4
1,674          1,849.5         185.0      214.6            399.6        2,249.1
TOTAL                                          2a .2a2                                    8220
(US$224.7 million S
equivalent)  
1/ Does not include Right-of-Way and supervision costs totalling Ps. 2085 million (us$26.7 million equivalent);
including these costs, the total project cost is Ps 3,017.4 million (US$241.4 million equivalent).
Source: SOP
October 1973



MEXICO
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Analysis of Construction Cost Estimates by Itemsg Co  
Total Construction
Length                                              Sub-    Bridges over       Signs       Sub-      Cost (Excluding    Oonatraction Cost
Hih-a3Z3Is             km     Earthworks      Drainage     Pae ment      Total   15 m. Span         & Misc.      Total    Contingenciea)          per km
___________  --------Pesos Mi on-          --                                             U.S, Equivalent
(Thousands)
(a) To be widened
1.  Monterrey-Linares            101         35.1          16.4          71.4      122.9         26.1           1.3         27.4        150.3                  118.h
2e  Coatzacoalcos-Minatitlan      22         19.7          2.7           28.4       50-8          4.4           0.3          4.7         55.5                  201.8
3. Mazatlin-Aeropuerto            14          5.1           2.8          12.4       20.3          -             0.1          0.1         20.4                  116.6
4.  Lo  Reyes-Texcooo-Lecheril a             66.9                        63..       153.8        7 86           1.8         80.         23h                    2927
201        126.8         Ti1           17.6OX4                                                                      ~29,
(b> To be constructed
5.  Tepalcateyec-Tecalitlan       96         58.7         12.7           36.2      107.6          3.4          0.7            1         fli.?                   93,0
6,  Miahuatlin-Sta.Elena       L11           77.1         20.9           33*3      131.3          1.3           0.7          2.0        133.3                   96.0
7.  Tenmscaltepec-Zihamtanejo   306         163.3         44.2          118.0      325.5         16.2          2.1          18.6        344.1                   89.9
8. Huixtla-Motosintla-Comalapa 111           81.9          23.0          23.9      128.8         12.0          0.9          12.9        141.7                  102e1
9. MaravatiS-Zinapecv&ro         42           7.0          2.3           17.5       26.8          0.8          0.3           1.1         27.9                   53.1
10,  Aneca-Pto. Vallarta          180        124.5          36.6          86.2      247.3          1.7          1.1           3.1        250.4                  111.3
.  1. T1&&Hapatitl4n-
Tecomitlin                 87          30.5         12.1           33.3       75.9         16.0          o.6          16.6         92.5                   85.0
12,  Naucalpan-Atlacomalco        102         14.2           7.1          45.0       66.3          -            0.7           0.7         67.0                   52.5
13. Playa Asul-Coahuayana         203        135.7         40.1           57.3      233.1         67.6          1.4          69.0        302.1                  119.0
14.  Sayula-i6o Uspanapa          120         28.7          15.0          43.8        87.5        17.0           0.8         17.8        105.3                   70.2
15. Pochutla-Salina Crus          185         76.7          25.8          53.5       156.0        35.3           1.3         36.6        192.6                   83.3
16.  Guerrero-l4vo. Laredo        131         13.2           6.3          52.9        72.4         7.7           0.8           8.5        80.9                   49.4
_R811.5       mr61             9       J658.5        179.0         12.0         19 _1.0ii
TOTALS          1875        938.3         291.5          776.5     2006.3.      288.1          1535 _L03.6              2302.9
(US$184.8 million
equivalent)
! Sortce:   SOP
October 1973






TABLE 14
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Schedule of Individual Contracts or Packages of Contracts
Cost of Cons-    Number of
truction and     Bidding        Value
of Individ.uAl    Sections or     of
Highways                                 Contracts1l       Packages       Packages
Ps       US$                  US$TiiIIIions
Millions
1.   M3aterrey-Linares                           122.9     9.8         2
a) Los  Rodriguez-Villa de Allende         49.2      3.9        1)            7.1
b) Villa de Allende-Montemorelos           40.4      3.2        1)
c) Montemorelos-Linares                     33.3     2.7         1            2.7
2.   Coatzacoalcos-Minatitlan                     50.8     4.1         1            4.1
3.  Mazatlan-Aeropuerto                           20.3     1.6         1            1.6
4.   Lo  Reyes-Texcoco- Lecheria                 153.8    12.3         2
a  Los Reyes-Start of Texcoco Bypass         32.2     2.)
'o S4art oi T xco o Eyass to start on                                          7.2
/enta ae Farpio syass                   57.7     4.6         1
c) Start of Venta de Carpio Bypass to
Lecheria__                  63.9     5.1         1             5.1
5.  Tenalcatepec-Tecalitlan                      107.6     8.6         2
a) Tepalcatepec-Km. 48 towards
Tecalitlan                      53.8     4.3         1             4.3
b)  Km. 48-Tecalitlan                       53.8     4.3         1            4.3
6.  Miahuatlan-Santa Elena                       131.3    10.5         2
a) Miahuatlan-El Manzanal                   14.4     1.2         1            56
b) El ManzanaluSan Bartolome                55.5     4.4         1)5
c) San Bartolome-Santa Elena                61.4     4.9         1            4.9
7.  Temascaltepec-Cd. Altamirano                 325.5    26.1         5
a) Temascaltepec-Bejucos                    30.9    _57.         1)           6.4
b) Bejucos-Cd. Altamirano                   48.4     3.9         1)             .
c) Cd. Altamirano-Coapandiro                59.7     4.8         1            4.8
d) Coapandiro-El Cedral                     51.7     4.1         1            4.1
e) El Cedral-Rio de las Cuevas              62.6     5.0         1            5.0
f) Rio de las Cuevas-Zihuatanejo            72.2     5.8         1            5.8
Cont'd....



TABLE 14
Page 2 of 2
8.   Huixtla-Motozintla-Comalapa                128.8    lot3e        2
a) Huixtla-Motozintla           56.6  1                                    4.5
b) Motozintla-El Rodeo                      38.9       3.1       1)        58
c) El Rodeo-Comlapa                         33.3       2.7       1)
9.   Maravatio-Zinanecuaro                       26.8       2.1       1         2.1
10. Ameca-Puerto Vallarta                       247-.3     19.8       4
a) Ameca-ATenquillo                                              1         4.5
b) Atenquillo-Mascota                       65.2      5.2        1         5.2
c) Mascota-Km. 40 hacia Pto. Vallarta       63.6      5.1        1         5.1
d) Km. 40 (Km 0 in Mascota)-Pto.Vallarta   61.9       5.0        1         5.0
11.  T1apa-Huantuxtitlan-Tecomatlan              75.9       6.1       1
a) Tlapa-XochThuehuetlan                                         I)        6.1
b) Xochihuehuetlan-Tecomatlan               30.6      2.5        1)
12. Naucplpan-Atlacomiulco                       66.3       5.3       1
a) Naucalp4n-Villa-del Carbon               23.6      1.9                  5.3
b) Villa del Carbon-Atlacomulco             42.7      3.4        1)
13. Pla7y  Azul-Coahuayana                      233.1      18.6       4
a) Playa Azul-Rio Mexpa                     3h6.      2.9        1         2.9
b) Rio Mexpa-Rio Cochan                     81.1      6.5        1         6.5
c) Rio Cochan-Rio Ostuta                    55.2      4.4        1         4.4
d) Rio Ostuta-Coahuayana                    60.2      4.8        1         4.8
14. Sayula-Rio Uspanapa                                               1
87._5  7.0 ~             7.
a) Sayula-ilio Chalchijapa                  25.5      2.0                  7.0
b) Rio Chalchijapa-Rio Uspanapa             62.0      5.0        1)
15.  Pochutla-Salina Cruz                       156.0      12.5       3
a) Pochutla-Santa Cruz Huatulco             33.0     -27        1         2.6
b) Santa Cruz-Huatulco-Astata               64.8      5.2        1         5.2
c) Astata-Salina Cruz                       58.2      4.7        1         4.7
16. Guerrero-Nuevo Laredo                        72.4      5.8        1
a) Guerrero-Hidalgo                         43.6      3.5        1)        5.8
b) Hidalgo-Nuevo Laredo                     28.8      2.3
TOTALS         2006.3    160.5       33
1/ Excluding contingencies and Ps 303.6 million for works to be awarded through
locally advertised competitive bidding (para. 4.15).
Source: SOP
October 1973



TMBIE 15
M LX I C 0
SEYNTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
TrafRfic lbeaJe
7 176    1981    1986    1221    1296
Group I
1 .  olnte cy-Ilnares
(i) lnterrey-Nonteoreios (4 lane.)  4,322    5,597   11,000  17,600   25,900  38,000
(ii) lkolteNOrelOs-Lial8res (2 lane)  1,853   2,399    4,700   7,500  11,100  16,300
2. Coatzacoalcoa-Mtinatitlan              7,652   10,184   16,400  26,400  h12,500  62,300
3. Masatlan-Aeropuerto                   3,395   4,275    7,800  12,000  17,600  24,000
4. Los Reeaa-Texooco-LIcheria
(i) Los byea-Tezooco                11,191  14,881    22,900  35,200   54,200  83,400
(ii) Texcoco-recheria                 7,621    9,869    19,300  31,100  45,500   67,000
Gy*uv II
5. Tepalcatepec-Tecalitlan                 280      372       960   1,550   2,490   4,000
6. ?ftahuatlan-Santa. Elona                 -        -        825   1,200   1,800    2,625
(i) Oazaca-Pawrto Ibcondido             93      117       275     400      600      875
(ii) Oazaca-Paerto Angel                186      234       550      800   1,200   1,750
7. Temascaltepec-Zihuatanejo                -        -                 - -     - 
(i) Teaascaltepec-Ad ltamirano         490      651     1,850   2,950   4,750   7,700
(ii) Od-Altamirano-ZUhuatanejo          185      246       790   1,275    2,050    3,300
8. HIuixtla-Motozintla-Comalapa            297      374       880   1,300   1,900   2,800
9. Maravatio-Zinapecuaro                   941    1,252     2,080   3,350   5,400    8,700
10.  &Aeca-Pierto Vallarta                  641      900    2,540   4,475    7,850  13,900
11. T1apa-Huanuxtit3an.Tecomat1an           126      163       400     600      950    1 h59
12. Nancalpan-Atlaoomulco                   889   1,183      1,900   3,070   4,900    7,950
1/ Do not include the agricultural development roads (Noo. 13 to 16) for which transit
traffic only has been forecast.
Source: SOP mad ?Lsaion estimates.
October 1973



MEXI Co
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle 2peratingos
atved Road
US cents per vehicle-km
\Speed
grade\dn       20      40      60    '80      100
,Cars     0%        5.3    4.8    4.3    4.3        4.6
2%        5.3    4.8    4.7    4.8         -
4%        6.7    5.7    5.3    5.3 3
6%        7.4    6.5    6.2        -       -
Buses    0%        16.3   12.5   11.3   11.0    11.14
2%       17.0   13.6   12.7   13.1         -
4%       19.3   16.1   17.0        -       -
6%       22.2   20.14   23.3       -       -
Truckcs   0         9.3    7.2    6.8    7.1         _
2%       11.5    9.8   10.0   11.0         -
14%      13.4   13.1   16.1        -       -
15.9   16.7      -       -        -
1/' Passenger and driver C0ots not included. ThaSe costs have been
computed by taking the present value for gasoline and diesel.
Source: SOP
August 1973



TABRM 17J
, x I C 0
SEVENTH HGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Overating Cost&
Earth Road
US cents per vehicle-km
\Speed
20          LO60                   80
Cars     0%       7.0          6.4        6.5        7.4
2%       7.5         7.0         7.1        8.1
4%       8.2         7.9         8.3        9.6
6%       9.2         9.2         9.8       11.3
Buses    0%      20.7         17.6       17.5       18.5
2%      22.1        19.3        20.1       22.9
4%      25.0        23.6        28.0        -
6%      28.9        30.5         -          -
Trucks   0%      12.7         11.7       12.3       14.4
2%      14.7        14.7        16.5       20.6
4%      17.5        20.1        28.2        -
6%      20.6        26.3         -          -
j/  Passenger and driver costs not included. These costs have been
computed by taking tha present value for gasoline and diesel.
Source: SOP
August 1973



=n00
SVII lRI01Y PDJIIT
Roads Justified on Aaricultural Develo mnt-Agrimltural Inrvssent6-Pbire. Tyne ani Soroe of Finani
Total           Total                          Phrcenta4e
irrigation      on fane         Totol           of inveateart
ROADS/TM  OP IWESTfkT                       1978     1979     lS9      1981      1982     1983      1284     l95      9        1967      l        1989      1990     InTestmnt        Investaent     I1M mt          ILrad
(A)  Pla  Aaol-Ooehulna
Irrigation oVrk.s                       1.80      240      240                                                                                                      960
On Parm InT  tinto                       800      720      p                                                                                                                         2240
sub-Total                280       960      9                                                                                                                                         20O              10%
(B)  a        o U
on Yarn ImeAnts                         2500     2600      8ao       800      60    0     2600  0wC0    2500       2700     2700    2700       200       100                        21400           21400              63W
(C) PoWrotla-Salna Cruz
Irrigation W.Aks1                                 640      320       320      320      320                                                                         1920
On FPe  Imetit                           560     1280      480       160      160       ID      400       7Z0                                                                        3840
Sub-Tot l                56       IWO       8c       480 8o             40 0     40D0      72C                                                                                       5760              17%
(D)    w" Lareao-0.rraro
Irrigaion Worka                          80C      480      8G0       160                                                                                           22140
an Farm     wnta                           O      160      I60      160                                                                                                               960
Sub-Total               1280       64                320                                                                                                                              3200             10%
Total per yer  ar foe roots                  5620     6120     3520      1600     108 0     lO0     3000     3220      2700      2700    2700      200       100       (5120)          (28440)          33560             200%
Sour    of Flaneng:   O men_nt (Irriation W s)                                    512;0     15%
Yhaloan D0.l.p nt Bas.*  (85% c  On-Farw in.watants) 241340         72%
Farmer (15% of On-Pam invwtmeta)                         400        131%
Total1
i pmon a *r kg for  U,000 he of irription to be  ated dvring rfc oa,atrmticn.
For irrigated eare ncd 10,000 ha af i4r dmI raided pates
Pa satiesteb1       nt, cattle purcths, and ranb installations of 100,000 hactars.
To irriat  h,00 ha.
Toet"of d     r8 ean irriotion ed d.v.1npit  at 20,000 ha of igroved pstwme and eatils purvlPBee.
Pw" giautall ion to Irrigte edditionml 5,200 ha.
Fer Irrigated erqw a8o  11* gtock dewopq_nt.
Sairosa: B? sot J"adn *stlmtoa
October 1973



TABLE 19
M E I I c O
pp" HiaWAr PRJ3CT
Economic Return
(Sensitivity Analysis)
|BEbst    1Ss Construction  BRenfit Increae  BEnefit Decreas
R  0  A  D  S                    Estimate      Ibat Overrun        by 25%           by 25%
1 .  Mbnterrey-Linares                  28          24                 32                 24
2.-C-oatzaeoaloos-HInatit1&n            41          34                 4?                 34
3.  Mazatlhn-Aeropuerto                 29          25                 34                 24
4.  Los Ryew-Texcoco-Iacherla           36          31                 41                 30
5.  Thpalcatepec-Tecatitlin             19          16                 22                 15
6.  Mlahuatlhn-Santa Elena              25          21                  29                20
7.  Tsmascaltepec-Zihuatanejo           21          18                 25                 17
8.  Huixtla-Motozintla-Conalapa         21          18                 25                 17
9 and 12.  Haravatio-Zinapecuaro        32          27                 37                 26
NaucalpSn-Atlacomulco 1/
10. Ameca-Puerto Vallarta,              27          23                 31                 22
11. Tlapa-Ruamuxtitlan-Tecomatlan       15          13                 18                 12
13. Playa Azul-Coahuayana               11           9                 13                  9
14. Sayula-Rio Uspanapa                 15          11                 18                 12
15. Pbchutla-Salina Cruz                10           9                 13                  8
16. Guerrero-Nuevo Laredo               13          10                 16                  9
M/ Mxico-Norelia (via corta)
Source: Mission Estimates
October 1973






ANNEX 1
MEXICO
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Bank's Participation in the Transportation Sector
A.   HIGHWAYS
Loan
Amounts
Loan No.   Date   US$ millions                   Works           Present Status
268-ME  Oct. 1960      25.0      3,150 km of Federal highways  Completed in 1968
317-ME  June 1962      30.5      385 km of toll roads, five
toll bridges and purchase
of a ferry boat                 Completed in 1967
354-ME  Sept. 1963    40.0       6,000 km of Federal highways
and purchase of maintenance
equipment                      Completed in 1972
401-ME  Feb. 1965      32.0      350 km of toll roads and three
toll bridges                   Completed in 1970
528-ME  Jan. 1968      27.5      2,200 km of Federal highways  Completed in
September 1973
695-ME  June 1970      21.8      1,040 km of Federal highways  Expected to be
completed by mid-
Sub-Total        176.8                                      1965
B.   RAILWAYS
103-ME  Aug. 1954      61.0     Rehabilitation of "El Pacifico"
Railway                         Completed in 1959
825-ME  June 1972      75.0      Rolling stock rails, work-    Expected to be
shops and terminals for         completed by mid-
Sub-Total    136.0      five railways                   1975
C.   PORTS
820-ME  May 1972       20.0      Installations and equipment   Expected to be
for three ports                 completed by mid-
1975
Grand Total 332.8
August 1973






ANNEX 2
Page 1
MEXICO
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
The Project Roads
The economic evaluation of the project roads is given in Chap-
ter 5 and the design standards are shown in Table 10. A description of
each project road follows.
A.  Roads to be Widened
1.  Monterrey-Linares - 101 km
The Monterrey-Linares road provides the southern access to the
Monterrey area, which is Mexico's first industrial center. For the road
between Monterrey and Montemorelos (74 kin), along the industrial corridor,
traffic is heavy and the existing two-lane road is saturated. SOP has
already started widening, from two to four lanes, a 21-km section close to
Monterrey, which is not included in the project; the project would there-
fore comprise the adding of two additional lanes to the remaining 53 km
between Monterrey and Montemorelos and the improving of the two-lane section
between Montemorelos and Linares (48 km). The project road is located
along a mountain range with altitudes between 1,000 and 2,000 m above sea
level; part of its length therefore crosses mountainous terrain. The proj-
ect comprises the widening and/or construction of 43 bridges with a total
length of 1,360n and the laying of an asphaltic concrete surface 7.50 m
wide for each carriageway.
2.   Coatzacoalcos-Minatitlan - 22 km
This road, which is located along the coast of the Gulf of Mexico,
constitutes a small section of the trunk route between the port of Veracruz
and the Yucatan Peninsula. The Fresent two-lane road bears a traffic of
about 7,600 vod and necessitates increased capacity. Topography is flat.
The proposed project includes the construction of a parallel carriageway
over a length of 10 k1  and the widening of the remaining 12 km to four-lane
standards; pavement will be asphaltic concrete 7.50 m wide for each carriage-
way. The widening of five bridges with a total length of about 230 m will
be carried out.
3.  Mazatlan-Aeropuerto - 14 km
The present two-lane suburban road runs between the city of
Mazatlan and the junction to the airport road. The terrain is rolling, and
the proposed project would finance the widening of the present roadway
from 12.00 m to 22.50 m, over which two 7.50 m wide asphaltic concrete paved
lanes would be built. The widening of six bridges with a total length of
60 n is also contemplated.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.   Los Reyes-Texcoco-Lecheria - 64 kIn
As a result of heavy commercial and industrial activities, there
are sections of the Los Reyes-Lecheria road where traffic reaches 11,500
vpd, with growth rates as high as 12% p.a. The present two-lane road is
inadequate to serve even the present traffic, and increased capacity is
urgently needed. The project comprises the widening of the present
road from two to four lanes in some sections or the construction of a
parallel two-lane carriageway, according to the particular conditions of
topography, availability of right-of-way, etc. Two asphaltic concrete
paved carriagewavs 7.50 m wide will be provided along the proposed road,
as well as 12 interchanges to be constructed on the crossing with existing
highways. New sections will be built to bypass the Chapingo agricultural
center and the towns of Texcoco, Venta de Carpio and Ecatepec; access roads
to these cities, totaling about 20 km, are not included in the project.
Topography along the road is flat or gently rolling.
B.   Roads to be Constructed
5.   Tepalcatepec-Tecalitlan - 96 km
The existing track between Tepalcatepec and Tecalitlan is in very
poor condition and hampers the development of the area. Topography is
generally mountainous, with altitudes ranging from 1,000 to 1,500 m above
sea level. The new road will be built to type "C" standards with a 7.00 m
wide roadway and a 5.50 m wide single surface treatment. About 230 m of
bridges would be built.
6.   Miahuatlan-Santa Elena - 111 km
At present, there is no direct connection between Miahuatlan,
located up in the mountains, and Santa Elena, a point along the Puerto
Escondido-Pochutla coastal road now under construction. SOP has estimated
that the construction of a new road from Miahuatlan to the coast would be
substantially less expensive than the improvement of the poorly aligned
existing road. The proposed road, which starts at about 7 km south of
Miahuatlan, also crosses mountainous terrain. It will be built to type "C"
standards with a 7.00 m wide roadway and a 5.50 m wide single surface treat-
ment pavement. Two bridges totaling about 60 m are to be built.
7.   Temascaltepec-Zihuatanejo - 306 km
The project comprises the paving of the existing Temascaltepec-
Bejucos section (80 km) and the construction and paving of the Bejucos-
Ciudad Altamirano-Zihuatanejo section (226 km). The road, when completed,
will comprise an alternative and shorter route between the Pacific coast
and Toluca and Mexico City. Terrain is mountainous and the road will be built
to type "C" standards, pavement would be a double surface treatment 5.50 m
wide, and 20 bridges will be built with a total length of about 790 m.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
8.   Huixtla-Motozintla-Comalapa - 111 km
This road will cross mountainous terrain with altitudes up to
3,000 m above sea level. At present, an inadequate track serves the traffic
of the area. The proposed road will close a circuit between Huixtla, oh
the coastal road, with Tuxtla Gutierrez, the capital of the state of Chiapas,
and Arriaga, another point on the coastal road toward the west, thus fostering
the development of the area. The road will be built to type "C" standards
with a double surface treatment 5.50 m wide. Eight bridges with a total
length of about 540 m will be built.
9.   Maravatio-Zinapecuaro - 42 km
The Maravatio-Zinapecuaro road will be a shortcut for the exist-
ing Maravatio-Acambaro-Zinapecuaro route and for the long run traffic
between Mexico City and Morelia, for which another shortcut is also proposed
in the present project (Naucalpan-Atlacomulco road (No. 12)). The topography
crossed by the road is gentle at altitudes ranging between 2,200 and 2,800 m
above sea level.  Although the road will be built to type "C" standards, it is
proposed that it be paved with a 5.50 m wide asphaltic concrete carpet to
take into account the future Mexico-Morelia heavy traffic. Five bridges
with a total length of about 70 m will be built.
10.   Ameca-Puerto Vallarta - 180 km
The Ameca-Puerto Vallarta road will be the extension of the
Guadalajara-Ameca road, a section of which is being constructed under
Loan 695-ME. The topography to be crossed by the proposed road is mountainous,
with altitudes ranging from 2,000 m to 0 m over sea level. Part of the
route is served by a track which will be upgraded under the present project.
It is proposed that the road be paved with a 5.50 m wide double surface
treatment and that 10 bridges be built with a total length of 160 m.
11.   Tlapa-Huamuxtitlan-Tecomatlan  - 87 km
The proposed project comprises the improvement and paving of an
existing tertiary road between Tlapa, Huamuxtitlan and Tecomatlan. Pave-
ment will be a 5.50 m wide single surface treatment. The topography of the
area is mountainous, with altitudes ranging between 1,000 and 1,200 m above
sea level. Seventeen bridges will be built with a total length of about
950 m.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
12.   Naucalpan-Atlacomulco - 102 km
This road would also be a part of the future trunk route between
Mexico City and Morelia; the project will comprise the construction and paving
of a new 20 km section (starting from Naucalpan) and the improvement of
82 km of the existing road to Atlacomulco, which is in poor condition.
The road will be built and/or improved to type "C" standards with an
asphaltic concrete pavement 5.50 m wide. Topography is generally moun-
tainous, with altitudes ranging from 2,300 to 2,800 m above sea level.
13.   Playa Azul-Coahuayana - 203 km
The Plava Azul-Coahuayana road, when constructed, will fill one
of the two missing links of the coastal road along the Pacific Ocean.  In
Playa Azul, it will join the IDB-financed Playa Azul-Zihuatanejo road, con-
necting with the Zihuatanejo-Temascaltepec road, which is also being financed
under the present project. The topography along the Playa Azul-Coahuayana
road is partly mountainous, and the road will cross numerous wide rivers;
68 bridges with a total length of about 3,400 m will have to be built.
14.   Sayula-Rio Uspanapa - 120 km
The Sayula-Rio Uspanapa road is the first stage of the Sayula-
Cintalapa road (about 220 km), which will diagonally connect the trunk
road crossing the Tehuantepec Isthmus (Acayucan-Sayula-Salina Cruz) with
another trunk road joining the coastal road with Tuxtla Gutierrez (Tepana-
tepec-Cintalapa-Tuxtla Gutierrez) and will establish a more direct connec-
tion between the southeastern part of the country and Mexico City.
Topography along the project road is rolling, with altitudes ranging from
25 to 600 m above sea level and excellent soil conditions for development
of tropical agriculture and cattle raising. The platform width will be
7.00 m with a double surface treatment of 5.50 m width. The road will
cross numerous rivers; about 24 bridges will have to be built with a total
length of 850 m. A single surface treatment 5.50 m wide will be provided.
15.   Pochutla-Salina Cruz - 185 km
The Pochutla-Salina Cruz road, when constructed, will fill the
second missing link of the coastal road along the Pacific Ocean (para. 13).
The road will cross a tropical area with altitudes ranging from 20 to 150 m
above sea level. The road will be built to type "C" standards with a 7.00 m
platform width, and a double surface treatment of 5.50 m will be provided;
36 bridges will have to be built with a total length of about 1,780 m.
16.   Guerrero-Nuevo Laredo - 131 km
The Guerrero-Nuevo Laredo road will run along the Rio Bravo, which
is the boundary between Mexico and the United States, and will fill a miss-
ing link in the road along the border. Topography along the proposed road
is flat, and a double surface treatment 5.50 m wide will be provided.
Fourteen bridges, with a total length of about 430 m, will be built.
December 1973



ANNEX 3
MEXICO
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year                                Cumulative Disbursements
And Quarter Ending                                    at End of Quarter
US$ Thousands
1973/1974
June 30, 1974                                                 400
1974/1975
September 30, 1974                                          1,400
December 31, 1974                                           3,500
March 31, 1975                                              6,000
June 30, 1975                                               9,000
1975/1976
September 30, 1975                                         13,000
December 31, 1975                                          17,000
March 30, 1976                                             22,000
June 30, 1976                                              28,000
1976/1977
September 30, 1976                                         35,000
December 31, 1976                                          42,000
March 30, 1977                                             47,000
June 30, 1977                                              54,000
1977/1978
September 30, 1977                                         61,000
December 30, 1977                                          68,000
March 31, 1978                                              75,000
June 30, 1978                                              82,000
1978/1979
September 30, 1978                                         86,000
December 31, 1978                                          90,000
Assumptions:
(i) Construction works will start at various dates on
the 16 project roads between March 1974 and March
1975.
(ii) Construction will be completed by mid-1978.
December 1973






ANNEX 4
Page 1
MEXICO
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Benefits from Roads Justified on Agricultural Development
1.        Four of the sixteen roads to be financed would be partially or
entirely justified on the basis of incremental benefits from agricultural
development that would take place in the areas of influence of the pro-
jected roads. These four roads are: (a) Playa Azul-Coahuayana; (b) Sayula-
Rio Uspanapa; (c) Pochutla-Salina Cruz; and (d) Guerrero-Nuevo Laredo. The
location of these roads is shown on Map IBRD-10549Rand the area of influ-
ence of each of the roads is shown on Maps IBRD Nos. 10621, 10623, 10622
and 10620, respectively.
2.        The following paragraphs explain the methodology used to evaluate
the agricultural benefits accruing from road construction and to give par-
ticulars regarding appraisal for each of the roads with respect to its area
of influence and the figures for production, costs and investments.
Methodology
3.        Benefits accruing from incremental agricultural production attri-
butable to construction of roads were appraised on the basis of information
prepared by SOP in accordance with ad hoc "Guidelines" agreed upon between
SOP and the February 1973 preappraisal mission. In brief, the ad hoc
"Guidelines" and appraisal took into consideration:
(a) Area of Influence - defined as the area on either side
of the road that would generate traffic for the said
road. The approximate distance (km) of lateral influ-
ence will, in every case, depend on the possible means
of access to the road, such as existing or projected
feeder roads, tracks, and the like, or those that are
expected to be built by farmers or other beneficiaries.
(b) Present Land Use - existing agricultural production
in the area of influence of the road before road
construction. Main crops under cultivation and approxi-
mate area covered by each crop. Cattle number and types
of animals existing within the area. Yields, prices,
total annual sales; production costs and actual benefits.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(c)  Future Land Use - projection of incremental agricultural
production during 20 years after road construction, con-
sidering: (i) expansion of rainfed cultivated area with
no change in actual unitary yields; (ii) increased pro-
duction due to new irrigation works, improved technology
and use of improved inputs; (iii) changes in cropping
pattern as result of better transportation and, thus, in
marketing possibilities. Total annual production values
have been estimated at constant prices. Also, projection
of incremental costs of production and computation of
on-farm investments necessary to achieve incremental pro-
duction have been considered.
(d) The decision of Government institutions to provide required
technical assistance and credit to producers of the area
and to carry out irrigation works projected.
Playa Azul - Coahuayana Road
4.        Area of Influence (Map IBRD-10621).  The area of influence of
this road is estimated at some 350,000 ha,or an average of 17 km across
the length of the 203 km of road. Most of the terrain is flat land not
exceeding 500 m above sea level as it gets away from the ocean side. The
climate is of tropical savanna, rainy but with dry winters, with annual
average temperatures of 25C and rain precipitation on the ortder of 2,000 mm
per year. Soils are typical prairie and grass land soils, changing in the
upper areas to forest yellow and brown soil. Vegetation during the rainy
season is exuberant with tropical varieties including palms and other non-
commercial trees.
5.        Out of the 350,000 ha, 130,000 are considered unproductive,
80,000 have potential use for rain-fed agriculture and the other 140,000
are used to some extent to pasture cattle. There are 12 minor rivers that
carry water during some months of the year. These rivers cross the road
before getting into the Pacific Ocean.
6.        Present Land 'Jse.  According to official statistics, there are
now some 23,000 ha under rain-fed crops, of which 15,000 are maize, 5,000
coconuts, 1,000 beans, 1,000 sesame and 1,000 in fruit trees and other crops.
The gross value of this production is estimated to be Ps 33 million per year,
and most of it is consumed by the people living in the area of influence
of the road, estimated to be some 3,000 families. It is also estimated that
there are some 40,000 head of unimproved cattle pasturing on the 110,000
ha of seasonal natural pastures, from which they extract some 15Z per year
for a total value of about Ps 7 million. Total annual existing production
is thus valued at Ps 40 million, with an estimated production cost of
Ps 28 million.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
7.        Future Land Use.  Total incremental agricultural production on the
order of Ps 68 million as of the 19th year after road construction has been
estimated on the following basis: the area under rain-fed crops would be
extended at a compounded rate of 2% per year, or 5,700 ha in 20 years. Con-
sidering the same unitary yields, this new area, under more or less the same
crop pattern as before, would have incremental production amounting to
some Ps 8 million. There are projects for construction of two small irriga-
tion schemes for a total of 4,000 ha, about 2,000 of which would be dedicated
to high-yielding fruit trees such as mangoes, aguacates, tamarinds, lemons
and papaya and the other half to annual crops, i.e., tomatoes, onions, grains
and pulses. Total value of production from irrigated crops has been estimated
to reach Ps 40 million at full production in the 15th year after road construc-
tion. As for livestock, there are possibilities to increase production
through improvement of management and pastures, installation of fences and the
introduction of improved cattle. The incremental sales of cattle have been
estimated at Ps 20 million as of year 18 after construction.
S.        Incremental agricultural production costs are estimated to reach
the amount of Ps 38.6 million by year 20. To obtain the total increased pro-
duction, it is estimated that, during the first three years after road con-
struction, there will need to be agricultural investments on the order of
Ps 40 million (US$3.2 million equivalent - see Table 18).
9.        Taking into consideration total incremental benefits, costs and
investments necessary, the economic return would be on the order of 11%.
Sayula-Rio Uspanapa Road
10.       Area of influence.  The road would go through the municipalities of
Texistepec, Hidalgo Titlan, and Minatitlan of the State of Vera Cruz. The
area of direct influence is estimated to be around 280,000 ha (Map IBRD-10623).
Most of the terrain crossed by the road is flat or rolling hills and its alti-
tude above sea level ranges from 25 to 600 m. The main rivers in the area of
influence are the Coatzacoalcos and the Uspanapa. These are navigable with
100 to 200 ton boats and thus extend the area of influence, which otherwise
would be an average of only 10 km on each side of the road.
11.       The climate in general is warm and humid, with rains for  most of
the year, mainly during the summer months. The area is divided into two dis-
tinct sections: the first is a tropical rainy savanna and the second, fur-
ther south after the Coatzacoalcos river, is more typical of a tropical wet
high forest zone. The medium temperature is 25C and the average rain preci-
pitation is 2,500 mm per annum. The soils range from sandy clays, yellowish
reds, deep, Ph-6, well drained to compact clay reddish brown with poor drain-
age. The vegetation is typical of tropical and subtropical areas. The area
up to the Coatzacoalcos river is open or with secondary growth. On the other



ANNEX 4
Page 4
side of the river and until the road reaches the Uspanapa (some 70 km), the
ecology of the area of influence is characterized by virgin, humid, tropical
forest, 8 to 15 m high. In this section, some millable wood such as mahogany
and red cedar may be extracted once the road is built and before the land is
cleared to be used for pastures or crops.
12.       Present Land Use.  The total area of influence of the road is esti-
mated to cover some 230,000 ha. About 20% of this area is probably not suita-
ble for agricultural or livestock development; of the 224,000 ha suitable for
development, around 40,000 closest to the starting site for the new road pres-
ently have some development. It is estimated that some 14,000 Animal Units
(AU) of livestock are raised on unimproved natural pastures and some 7,000 ha
are sporadically under crops of rice, maize, beans, and fruits, etc.  Most of
the cultivated land, as well as the undeveloped area, is owned privately in
lots averaging about 100 ha, and by ejidos and communities which possess about
2,000 ha each.  Only some 10 to 12% of the area of influence is supposed to
belong to Federal, State or Municipal Government institutions. About 2,000
families, most of whom live and work in towns nearby, get some income from
the existing exploitation or will participate in the future development of the
area of influence of the road. The actual gross sale of livestock and byprod-
ucts has been estimated to reach Ps 4 million and the net benefits to amount
to some Ps 2 million net.
13.       The 7,000 ha of crop land are within the first 20 km of the new road,
but, since this production now has access to the transversal highway that
passes by Sayula, we are not considering this area as influenced by the road
to be built.
14.       Future Land Use.  The greatest potential of the area of influence is
for beef production. Adjacent areas, where roads exist and which are served
with technical assistance and credit provided by Government institutions, are
having a very impressive development. Given the excellent conditions for live-
stock production and good market prospects, the projection basically foresees
an accelerated development of the livestock herd for the production of beef,
with milk as a byproduct. It is assumed that no less than 100,000 ha will
be put into improved pastures by year 16 after road construction and that,
at that time, the stocking capacity should be two AU per ha. The herd
existing before road construction, consisting of 14,000 AU (18,000 head) would
be increased in 16 years after road construction to 200,000 AU. Incremental
cattle products sales by year 16 are forecast to be on the order of Ps 128
million per annum. The incremental annual production costs by the same year
would be Ps 31 million. On farm investments to be financed by banks loans and
farmers' contributions, on the order of Ps 268 million (US$21.4 million equiva-
lent- see Table 18) would be required to reach the production estimated.
This investment would take place in the course of the first 13 years after
road construction. The main items for investment would be for the acquisition
of heifers and cows, breeding bulls, fencing, pasture improvement and pasture
establishment, water facilities and installations.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
15.       Taking into consideration total incremental benefits, costs and
investments necessary, the economic return would be on the order of 15%.
Pochutla-Salina Cruz Road
16.       Area of Influence (Map IBRD-10622).  The road would have a direct
impact on the agricultural production of some 260,000 ha, an average of 14 km
across the 185 km of road. The population of the area of influence for the
year 1970 was estimated to be 18,000, with an annual growth rate of 3.5%.
Most of these people depend on agricultural activities, with fishing and salt
mining following in importance. The pattern of land tenure is of ejidos and
comuneros and some small private property, with rain-fed farm areas of 20 to
200 ha. The road crosses flat land no higher than 150 m above sea level. The
predominant climate is of tropical savanna, with rains during the summer and
a dry winter; rainfall ranges from 700 to 1,000 mm. Soils are prairie type
on the coastal strip and black on the upper parts of the area of influence.
Vegetation is mainly of marshy land, leguminous shrubs, palm trees and
spinous plants. The ecological conditions are proper for crops such as maize,
coffee, beans, castor beans, sesame, some fruit trees and maguey. Several
rivers will cross the road before getting to the ocean.
17.       Present Land Use.  Out of the 260,000 ha of land in the area of
influence of this road, it is estimated that some 20,000 are annually put into
rain-fed crops of maize, beans and other food crops. The potential for rain-
fed agriculture is considered to be 90,000 ha, the area for cattle pasturing
some 60,000 ha and the area under forest of non-commercial value around
90,000 ha. The total value of agricultural production is estimated to be
Ps 34 million and the net benefits on the order of Ps 10 million.
18.       Future Land Use.  The incremental agricultural production of the
area of influence has been estimated to reach about Ps 106 million by year 20
after road construction. The incremental production costs would, at the same
time, have increased by Ps 55 million. Most of the increased production
would come from about 4,000 ha of land to be irrigated during the first years
after road construction. These small irrigation works will require an invest-
ment of Ps 24 million (US$1.920 million equivalent-see Table 18). About 50%
of the irrigated land would be put into fruit trees such as mangoes, agucates,
papaya and tamarind, and the other half into high yielding annual crops such
as tomatoes, onions, chili and other vegetables besides rice, maize and beans.
Livestock production would also be substantially increased and, to this
effect, additional investments would be required for improved pastures, fences,
watering works and purchase of improved cattle. Total investment required
to obtain the incremental production forecast would be on the order of
Ps 72 million (US$5.760 million equivalent-see Table 18)(including Ps 24
million for irrigation) and would be realized during the first eight years
after road construction. Agricultural production from rainfed crops would
increase by 2% per year from the additional area used for this purpose. No



ANNEX 4
Page 6
unitary yield increases have been considered in this case. Taking into con-
sideration all benefits, operation costs and investments, the economic return
would be on the order of 10%.
Guerrero-Nuevo Laredo Road
19.       Area of Influence (Map IBRD-10620).  Some 270,000 ha could be con-
sidered as the area of influence of this road. This area would represent an
average of 20 km across the 135 km of road that would run more or less parallel
to the Rio Bravo on the border with the United States. Most of the area is
flat, with altitude not exceeding 200 m above sea level. The climate is dry
desert but with scattered strong showers any time of the year. Average yearly
rainfall is on the order of 600 mm. Temperatures range from a maximum of
42C during the summer months to as low as oeC minimum during some winter
days. Predominant soils belong to the desert soils group; the natural vege-
tation consists of scattered unimproved natural pastures, shrubs and trees,
such as mezquite, palo blanco and encino.
20.       Present Land Use.  Most of the area is now dedicated to the raising
of cattle -young male calves to sell to the United States and heifers and
cattle for the domestic markets. There are now some 18,000 head of cattle
(16 ha per head). These cattle are mostly of national origin with some cross-
ing with indus strains. As for crops, there are only some 800 ha under irri-
gated land, with water pumped from the Rio Bravo. Total agricultural produc-
tion is on the order of Ps 10 million, and costs of production are estimated
to be on the order of Ps 5 million, which leaves a net benefit of Ps 5 million.
21.       Future Land Use.  The potential to increase the area to grow crops
with irrigation is good. Along the Rio Bravo, there are six ejidos with 225
members and 60 other private land owners who have water rights to pump enough
water from the river to irrigate 6,000 ha. The new road, in conjunction with
the Government's present actions now in progress to rehabilitate the ejidos,
will make it possible to use these 6,000 ha to produce high yielding crops
and irrigate pastures to raise or fatten livestock. The road will also make
attractive some necessary investment to increase beef cattle production on
range conditions. Total sales for cattle and crops from the new irrigated
area are estimated to reach Ps 36 million by year 6 after road construction;
incremental costs would rise to Ps 22 million during the same period. On farm
invesuLonts for irrigation works and cattle ranches, improvements would be on
the order of Ps 40 million (US$3.2 million equivalent, see Table 18) spread
over the first four years after road construction.
22.       Taking into consideration all benefits, production costs, and
necessary investments, the economic return would be 13%.
December 1973



MEXICO
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE SECRETARIAT OF PUBLIC WORKS
COMMITTEE FOR
PLANNING OF TRANSPORT
C   INFRASTRUCTURE
I NTE RNA L     _
ADMINISTRATION
SECRETARY                             COMMITTEE FOR
PUBLIC WORKS      |                   [ URBAN DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE FOR                                                                            F
FEEDER ROADS AND
LAIRPORTS
COMMITTEE FOR
TECHNICAL       _
SPECIFICATIONS
COMMITTEE FO                       ~~~~~~COMIMITTEE FORMITEFO
COMIEES ORUDESERTAYHA                           WORIKS ON NATURAL                                                                      UDRERTR                       FI
|  R ES EARC H  | -        <:                               ;PARKS
COMMITTEE FOR
UNIT PRICES
GENERAL DIRECTORATES                 GENERAL DIRECTORATES                GENERAL DIRECTORATES                   GENERAL DIRECTORATES
FOR                                  FOR                                   FOR                                  FOR
RAILWAYS                            PROGRAMMING                          ORGANIZATION AND METHODS               WORKS FOR SOCIAL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS                     SYSTEMS ENGINEERING                 LEGAL AFFAIRS                         IMPROVEMENT
HIGHWAYS IN COOPERATION              PUBLIC RELATIONS                    PERSONNEL                              BUILDINGS
WITH THE STATES                      CONTROL                             BUDGET                                 HAND LABOR WORKS
AIRPORTS                                                                 SUPPLIES                               MAINTENANCE
TECHNICAL SERVICES                                                       SOCIAL ASSISTANCE                      EQUIPMENT AND TRANS-
RELATIONSHIP WITH                     PORTATION
THE STATES
World Bank-7817






MEXICO
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE GENERAL DIRECTORATE FOR FEDERAL HIGHWAYS
GENERAL
DIRECTOR
DEPARTMENTS       HIGHWAY DDGE DESCEXECUTION
PRELIMINARY DESIGNS           PROGRAMMING AND                          REVIEW OF DESIGNS              PROGRAMMING
AND FIELD SURVEYS             SELECTION OF                             BIDDING                        BUDGETS
FINAL DESIGN                  BRIDGE TYPES
PHOTOGRAMMETRY        ~FINAL DESIGN                            SPECIFICATIONS AND             QUALITY CONTROL
SECTIONS  PHOTOGRAMMETRY                      A        N                          UNIT PRICES                    CONTRACTS AND COST
GEOTECHNICS                   HYDRAULIC STUDIES                        INFORMATION AND                ESTIMATES
INTERSECTIONS AND             HYFALCSUISSTATISTICS                                                    RSDN  NIER
SIGNALIZATION                 SOIL MECHANICS                                                          RESIDENT ENGINEERS
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION
World Bank-7818






I RD-10549R
IvRE!E_r                                                                          D Wirne  2            tor  tgvs MovbP.o,bleon                                          NOVEMBER 1973
\S<LWsRisrhrcde { g , ; \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MoreljO,                                                                                              EloonpTooo8  ~T__, Pep w
ra a                                                                                                                                         H,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~urq  Loojumb,oo\NuoloTeco
ClododJuarez                                                              :                                                                         /       Re
To uc              MEIOCT            oxcI
pto pstgIooooI N     sgoroE   oon                                                     U N    TS E        STAT E  S,
go. Preto 00PtoPer<\Nogrles>;a>//XvEl Porven      IN!TE>            STATE5   00               02Temrscallepe                                                                               Pub
iCro           e                                              NuevoCOrodes                                                                                                                                         CuernAmoco
ClodBdjucos
RI                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Allomrono
tE \ g(\Dbre~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~guoloS                                                                                                               +<nbn,[Cr Los edo s
E  12g7  RioA M    hi                                          < Modero                                                                                                  Boso          S
V#NJ Contituci6\   )Q  Too     TebOrnpo  'T                  Chni  00 )           \L                                  crsmu  u/ f                                         of          /te icn
P               La   I                                                                                       0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 20  40  60  00  100Hu,u1
Guoyma  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hooeO                                                                                   KI LOMErER5                     Clolp
br.gbi,  ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    '. 1           uoLaosdo                                             0      20  _40       60           Png                Ip
N                                    Cd Jbok                                                                                                                   PACIFIC Cinooiq                                                       71000
MILES
| I</IAI~~~N                                                                                       CuAWYNEYOR  tr Cnoqo    ' Monclovo
PROOSE   SVENH   IGHAYPRpEC                         PlyoAzu-=> s/Aea   fLnsret  a                                                 Guajlpo    ;< M n8lo f       44           0  xicoND R
'IC:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~I"o
.      Highwa-sttAu Ei6n,  C    bpolo bIructeT                                                              _   n ej o r   Ag l  fIes                                                                         P    s               Pl   U  ezE
~~~~~o                                                a~~ P  . JOP                                                          Gulfopool   i C     A                        node Mrd
.__. ienatinced  by previ ius Book loops:                                               Io05           LO  C                                                                ;aaRm7~t=1                                                 i
E  317   E, 354M, c                                                         ranE                                                            f   Moro 2,
526-ME and i695-MEa84                                                       _           -             ro2           0        -      |                  f,jo                           urtathub ' g              p oe  sa
-C--.C    Pa way       IOsA                                                                             v'r IIrn                Vill-                                                                                                 Pi."Jo6rV
RIvers                                                               '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00o~~~~~~~~                     do ~~~~~~ie  a    2(                VI Oe hermsid--                .4                 0
tO              RPSDSEVENTH   HIGHWAY  PROJECT                                                    Plp   zlArao   ne  m                                         1010             oo0IE
Highways co b mproted orudr constrIctdr                                                                                         del RHONC."A
fitrnaioned  by  rvound Bankaieasg                                                                                                                                                               hmotlr
2o8100       31700    300     E,400    500rde
528-ME and 695-ME                                                                                               ruz ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Coalpo/N~
0  Othe   m iC highwa Rs                     S00                       r     P  ae No                                                                                              I?    cea,  tt~Es~iPEron
Rier       Chly                                                                                                                                                                      .ero
lId'                          105'                                                1112'                                            BE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~la.    ure      ulLp,,B






M-  E XIC 103                                                                             020
M E X I C O                                                                                   i=-    Proposed project road
Seventh   Highway  Project                                                                                          Area of influence
PLAYA AZUL - COAHUAYANA ROAD                                                                                               Main roads
AREA  OF  INFLUENCE                                                                                           Other roads
~~Rivers
-----Municipal boundaries
----State boundaries
p                                                                                             Me,ho Ocam)  p o                                                 I
h       <~~MIE 2p 1i 30                                                                                                           Ocean 0 
io/         uililla         \\                       /    \\               Itean b a               G
0 ' ) ' "''"'95"' \' ,,,,,\7,,,,,,,,, ,, ,< RA~~~~~~~~~~rteaga 
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T bLY  -ZU- -h =h -.P ds .                         -, 
O, ~  ~ ~~~ Ip    e,          a , nca Mex.-                                                                                                           = GMU5R Of
MKILOETES                           1,3-acroific l bonaie4UTEj






IBRD 10623
uSt.s   V.5 A.                                                                                 94                    SEPTEMBER 1973
U -._,._.                                                                   MEXICO
\.\ XX </ GvZf of                                       Seventh Highway Project
Mexico                                     SAYULA - RIO USPANAPA ROAD
MEXICO                                                                  AREA OF INFLUENCE
Pacific
Oceon                                   BR,                            ,               - ;    -8Proposed project road
<      L  <  tt I ~HONO.
Area of influence
- - Internmtirnal boundaries     GuATEMJ IA                                               -         Moin roads
Theorund:ades sheowS on this 574 do nor 9                                                          te  od
-other roads
atnpljv 5B5dor 5""5ntff,1i5e5 P  -           w {Rc                           Railways
- ~:>_Rivers
- ----Municipal boundaries
--- State boundaries
Montepio
-1\           //  \\>                             &                         9         tO     2p      3p      40      50
0 1    \,/KILOMETERS
/ IS. Andres1)       j    C\                n                                           IP           20            30
S. tAn r6s/                                                                                  MILES
/  I  _              9 I!                                                    'lie e./ c o                                 
2  t  // f                        /)     I         >                                               S6nchez Magallane
'   T J       I        ~~~~Ocoxotepec    (     \                                                                  -    ,/                 \     X
-'    >A  ~\CoatzocoalcOs1
V r d'="~~~~~~~~~~~ \ 0 X f o; ACks~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pio e  0\
\  )~~..j\   /       0' ~~Minatitln     Cuichapa\PiadOo                                              T 
~~~                       ,=af-   /           /       /e    Li                           \  
Evanglte elista              Olut \            I  / La  a /la  T  step
-  I            Fili~~~sola 
no                Vi~~~~~~~/j~~~~   '% T   C
Suchilopan     ,                                                                                                           /
VLRACRU\                                                                       7
OAXACA    -   -------
S  S3Xarabia                                                                              945






,A
0                                                                                                                    95
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
7                    0~~~~~~~Nejapa de                                                                                             OPChO
_-                  \    ~~~~~Madero             i                                                                                    T  oTapcchul,/
)  )    t                           I                    >                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I Ixtepe,6  
__   \   \  fresa   9                  1            /LnVentoso
/   |   \                          >                  |           B ~~~~~~~~      ~     ~~~~JVar&w   San Pedo/          /
_____  \/J                                        \                I                 J      u            Comitanc
Av~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'o                                                                                        T o \  \  at
Miohuotlrin                                                              <    '                                     e       u       np                ,                  D
amazulapon                 \t                                                            
( s~~~~~~0   A  X                                      ..A 'C/ A tB ;!
Son Pedro                                                                   edo 
-16         (         SnPer  1 Alto                                          El Ciyut                                a gmba              =-Proposed project rorad                   16-
7 {;/J , tOiAstcitq ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Areaoaf influence
I  Pluma Hidalgo                .} _                   
wo   <       _,5                          -                                                        'J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ther roods
Y . E f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Roilways
rl ~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
i  V~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -\                                                 - - --Municipal boundaries
'5.t2/ - /    /  j/-                         C                                                         O       1/0     2z0      30       40      50
{   t  w           f  I                                                         _                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\  _ ftn a                                                                                                                                       MiLE5K
rhe  . nonei-s shown - this -sp d. o
=Is      -mtyed-rsmen or bcetecy thc
hl E X I C o 0r\       
Seventh Highway Projecft                                                                                   EXC    Gulf of    'V
POCHUTLA - SALtNA CRUZ ROAD                                                                                   MEIC   Meic                     w
AREA OF INFLUENCE                                                                   'cfc          ef                             ;
9,b-.-N_                                                                     _.-lnternoionlN boundaries
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N






100\                                                                    99,
\   qs   c>                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M E X I C O
,N N_ t-       \               lSeventh Highway Project
GUERRERO-NUEVO LAREDO ROAD
El Remolino                                            Peras Negras                                                           AREA   OF  INFLUENCE
-  Proposed project road
-28'                                cho Mdezquioso                                                                                                             Area of ofinfluence                  28
Nueva  /~Main t                                I                    .                                                                        =ProadseM roads
Rosito                                                                                                                                               .     . y  X  )  <  \'Other roads
i   I ----.- Railways
__  _Rivers
aun o-icipal boundaries
----.State boundaries ,
-27-                                   I _ _ 0    ooney0.-Intern ationol bo undary  O
o  i      20     30    40      50
KILOMETERS
MILES
-,rpre-dor..n.. .r ..,.. rrc .....
9Tfi -1d 13k arrd it, affdwnrrc
'v GulIf of
/--L,                                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mexico   om
MEXICO                          '
Pacif ic   ~ ~ ~ ~ ,BR. -
L  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~oMonterrey                                            I. _International boundaries  GUATE~AA~NU~ 



