            Document of
          The World Bank




                                     Report No: 29567




 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
             (IDA-37160)

                ON A

               CREDIT

  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 50 MILLION

               TO THE

      REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR

              FOR AN

EMERGENCY ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT




            June 29, 2004

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective June 29, 2004)

                                    Currency Unit = Malagasy Franc (MGF)
                                             US$ 1 = 10,432MGF

                                           FISCAL YEAR
                                     January 1    December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AGOA   - Africa Growth Opportunity Act
CAS    - Country Assistance Strategy
CISCO  - School district
CPI    - Consumer Price Index
CPIA   - Country Policy and Institutional Assessment
CRESED - Credit for Strengthening the Education System in Madagascar
CRESAN - Credit for Strengthening the Health Sector
DCA    - Development Credit Agreement
EBFs   - Extra-budgetary Funds
EERC   - Emergency Economic Recovery Credit
EFA    - Education for All
EPZ    - Export Processing Zone
EU     - European Union
FID    - Community Development Fund
FDI    - Foreign Direct Investment
FMG    - Malagasy Franc
FRAM     Parent-Teacher Association
GDP    - Gross Domestic Product
GEFB     Free Enterprise Business Association
GOM    - Government of Madagascar
HIPC   - Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IATA   - International Air Transport Association
IDA    - International Development Association
IFC    - International Finance Corporation
IMF    - International Monetary Fund
INSTAT - Institut National de la Statistique Malgache
MEFB   - Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget
MENRS  - Ministry of Education and Scientific Research
METFP  - Ministry of Technical and Vocational Training
MOH    - Ministry of Health
MOP      Memorandum of the President
MOU    - Memorandum of Understanding
NGO    - Non-Governmental Organization
NNP    - National Nutrition Policy
PGDI   - Good Governance and Institutional Development Program
PIP    - Public Investment Program
PIU    - Project Implementation Unit

PRGF   - Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP   - Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QAG    - Quality Assurance Group
RMF    - Road Maintenance Fund
SALAMA - Central Drug Purchasing Agency
STA    - Technical Secretariat for Adjustment
TSA    - Treasury Single Account
UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
VAT    - Value Added Tax
WB       World Bank



                                 Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
                              Country Director:   Hafez Ghanem
                               Sector Manager:    C. Sanjivi Rajasingham,
                      Co-Task Team Leaders:       Wolfgang Fengler, Susanne Holste
                           ICR Task Manager:      Noroarisoa Rabefaniraka

                                       MADAGASCAR
                            Emergency Economic Recovery Credit


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                                Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              10
6. Sustainability                                                                  11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 14
9. Partner Comments                                                                15
10. Additional Information                                                         17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              28
Annex 8. Implementation, monitoring, and last status of the EERC                   29
Annex 9. Direct Crisis Impacts, Main Risks, and Government Strategy/ Impacts       37
Annex 10. Priority Actions and Programs in the Recovery Program                    39
Annex 11.Macroeconomic indicators                                                  40
Annex 12. Annex to Government's Assessment of the Project                          42

Project ID: P080345                                                  Project Name: Emergency Economic Recovery Credit
Team Leader: Susanne Holste                                          TL Unit: AFTTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Emergency Economic Recovery Credit                       L/C/TF Number: IDA-37160
   Country/Department: MADAGASCAR                                                          Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (30%); General
                            transportation sector (30%); Other social services (20%); Health
                            (10%); General education sector (10%)
                  Theme: Social risk coping (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P);
                            Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Health
                            system performance (S); Education for all (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/16/2002                                     Effective: 12/11/2002                12/11/2002
     Appraisal: 10/03/2002                                         MTR: 11/01/2004                  11/01/2004
      Approval: 11/14/2002                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF MADAGASCAR/MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND PLAN
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Hafez M. H. Ghanem                             Hafez M. H. Ghanem
Sector Manager:                 C. Sanjivi Rajasingham                         Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Team Leader at ICR:             Wolfgang Fengler, Susanne                      Wolfgang Fengler, Susanne Holste
                                Holste
ICR Primary Author:             Noroarisoa Rabefaniraka


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1 Background

3.1.1 Following a contested presidential election in December 2001 between the incumbent president
Didier Ratsiraka and the mayor of Antananarivo, Marc Ravalomanana (see the box below), a general
strike ensued that was to paralyzed economic and social activity for six months. This crisis interrupted a
period during which Madagascar had achieved high and sustained growth averaging 4.5 percent in the
second half of the 1990s., and reaching 6 percent in 2001, led largely by private investment, and particularly
by textile activities in the Export Processing Zones (EPZ) Textile activities grew at an average rate of 24
percent between 1999 and 2001. In 2001, the sector employed 110,000 people; by the end of 2003, employment
had returned to its pre-crisis levels. . This period also coincided with implementation of the World
Bank-financed Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) and the IMF-financed Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility (PRGF).

3.1.2 The crisis had a particularly severe impact on growth and private investment, causing foreign direct
investment (FDI) in particular to falter, thereby adding to a sharp drop in export revenues and long-term
financing. Government finance was hard hit, with domestic revenue collection falling from 11.6 percent to
6.9 percent. A detailed sector analysis was carried out to determine what the direct impacts of the crisis
might have been if assistance had not been forthcoming (Annex 9).

3.1.3 The economic collapse and resulting stoppage of many public social services caused widespread
social distress. Rural incomes of communities located far from markets fell by as much as 50 percent due
to lower farm-gate prices and a sharp reduction in informal sector activities in villages. Poverty headcount
index rose as high as 80 percent. School dropout rates increased as much as 14 percent during the 2002
school year, and health service utilization declined by 36 percent in rural areas and 14 percent in urban
areas. Especially worrisome was the decline in assisted birth rates (-16 percent) and prenatal care for
pregnant women (-9 percent).



 The country experienced a severe 6-month political and economic crisis that brought the economy to a
 complete standstill and jeopardized the foundations of the previous growth period. Damage occurred
 on several levels: (i) regarding infrastructure, the crisis coincided with a cyclone that damaged the road
 network in Toamasina Province; fifteen key bridges were also destroyed during this period.
 International air traffic was severely curtailed along several regional routes, inflicting heavy financial
 losses on the national airline; (ii) public finance was compromised by the suspension of treasury bond
 trading in February 2002. Foreign banks froze Madagascar's assets abroad and the domestic foreign
 exchange market was suspended due to the temporary emergence of two rival Central Bank factions,
 both attempting to conduct business abroad, including continuing to issue payment orders; (iii) all
 economic activity, including foreign trade, came to a nearly complete halt. In the EPZ sector, most
 foreign textile firms left the country, leaving more than 80,000 workers without jobs. As Mr.
 Ravalomanana's domestic support increased, his control of the country widened and foreign
 governments that initially had taken a neutral position began recognizing him as the legitimate
 President. In early July 2002, Mr. Ratsiraka left the country, thereby putting an end to the crisis.


3.1.4 In July 2002, the Government presented a short- and medium-term recovery plan to the donors and
partners in Paris at the "Friends of Madagascar" meeting. Its priority recovery program was designed to
achieve macroeconomic stability, rebuild physical assets, and restore economic and social activities. The



                                                          - 2 -

    international community demonstrated its strong support for this reconstruction and development program,
    underlining the importance of adhering to the principles of good governance, promotion of a strong private
    sector, and poverty reduction. The overall recovery program implemented between August 2002 and
    December 2003, and financed by both Government funds and donor support, was estimated at around
    US$540 million. Within this larger recovery program, Government identified a number of priority actions
    that were of the utmost short-term importance in terms of aiding the most vulnerable, restarting productive
    sectors and re-establishing public services for an estimated US$237.7 million. The EERC, which was
    intended to close in December 2003, was designed to support these priority activities.

    EERC Original Objective

    3.1.5 The overall objective of the project was to limit and if possible reverse the crisis impact on the
    poor, in the wake of the social and political crisis resulting from disputed presidential elections in
    December 2001. The credit would address urgent financing needs until mid-2003, by providing
    complementary funding for activities that could not be financed through other instruments (such as ongoing
    projects, already planned lending, other donor financing or the Government's own resources) through
    quick-disbursing liquidity and the financing of a positive list of imports         3  deemed necessary for the
    country's short-term recovery program and at the same time ensuring macro-economic stability.

    3.1.6 Counterpart funds (domestic currency equivalent) under the Credit were released and provided
    budgetary resources enabling the Government to implement its recovery program. Details of the priority
    program are provided in Annex 8.

    3.1.7 The scope of the program was clear: a targeted recovery program for a post-conflict situation. The
    objective was fully in line with the Government's identified emergency measures which were aimed to: (i)
    support the most vulnerable; (ii) assist private sector recovery; and (iii) restore public services. The
    Government's strategy consisted of getting the economy back on track and mitigating the social impact of
    the crisis on the poorest segments of the population by adopting a priority economic and social program as
    part of its overall recovery plan.

    3.1.8 The objective of the EERC also reflected the priorities identified in the Bank's Interim Country
    Assistance Strategy (I-CAS), which were to limit and, if possible, reverse the impact of the crisis on the
    poor. The I-CAS proposed three instruments in response to the crisis: (i) portfolio restructuring, (ii) new
    lending (including the Emergency Credit), and (iii) policy advice on structural reforms to minimize the
    impact of future crises. The mix of instruments was particularly effective in supporting the government's
    reconstruction program in consultation with the other development partners See I-CAS, Section 5.. The
                                                                                       4


    EERC and the I-CAS supported the recovery strategy, and common indicators were chosen for both
    instruments.

1in the second half of the 1990s.
2Textile activities grew at an average rate of 24 percent between 1999 and 2001. In 2001, the sector employed 110,000
people; by the end of 2003, employment
  had returned to its pre-crisis levels.




                                                             - 3 -

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not Applicable

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1 The EERC financed part of the Government's priority recovery program of US$ 237.7 million;
hence, the amounts for the different components do not reflect the actual amounts financed by the project.

3.3.2 Component 1: Support for the most vulnerable: US$57.7 million. This component was designed
to support Government policy aimed at population groups most affected by the crisis. This component
consisted of the following sub-components:

(i)      free access to social services :
-        Education (US$ 8.5 million): the government was to assume responsibility for primary school
enrollment fees, suspending those fees as of September 2002, assuming the burden of public primary
school teacher salaries previously paid by the parents' association (FRAM), and providing supplemental
nutrition to school students with assistance from the CRESED project;
-        Health (US$ 12.5 million): Public health facilities were to dispense medical care and essential
drugs free of charge through January 2003. The Central Drug Purchasing Agency, SALAMA, was to be
recapitalized so that it would have sufficient financial backup to supply drugs to the public sector.
SALAMA's payment arrears were to be cleared and the agency was to receive a supplemental transfer
enabling it to replenish its drug stocks at the end of the period of free distribution to public dispensaries
outside the capital. The CRESAN 2 Project would import additional types of drugs to extend the range of
drugs and consumables available at SALAMA for hospital centers (e.g. for surgery, reanimation);
(ii)     establishment of a social safety net (US$ 6.5 million) through the creation of labor-intensive jobs,
especially in public works, to reach specific population groups.
(iii)    in rural development (US$ 30.2 million):
-        support for rural farmers through payment, by the end of 2002, of the arrears of the state-owned
Madagascar Cotton Company, HASYMA, vis-à-vis 17,000 small cotton producers, in order to allow them
to restart their small businesses and ensure a supply of cotton for the textile industry; and,
-        support to rural communes through the payment of their annual block grant allocation (transfer
of the remainder of the 2002 allocation, and compensation of rural communes through an increase of at
least 30 percent in the block grant for 2003), to enable them to continue to provide essential social and
administrative services.

3.3.3 Component 2: Support for Private Sector Recovery: US$91.5 million. This component sought
to restore private sector confidence and to re-start investment in order to consolidate economic recovery.
This component consisted of the following sub-components:

(i)      payment of Government's arrears to its suppliers (US$ 62.3 million), by providing cash-flow
support to      companies to which Government owed money;
(ii)     elimination of import tariffs (US$ 3.1 million) on inputs used for textile and cotton production,
cement, and fertilizer. This sub-component in fact represents income foregone for the Customs
Administration, and does not involve any disbursement;
(iii)    reimbursement of VAT arrears (US$ 26.1 million) to exporters and companies that have made new
investments, with priority given to EPZ companies, which were hardest hit by the crisis.




                                                       - 4 -

3.3.4 Component 3: Restoration of Public Services : US$88.5 million. This component, which sought
to restore land transportation (a particular priority of the Government) as well as air transportation,
consisted of the following sub-components:
(i)      rehabilitation of ruined infrastructure, and particularly of roads and bridges (US$2.5 million)
destroyed during the crisis, e.g., dynamited bridges and infrastructure affected by cyclone Kesiny. Major
effort and investment was also required to repair roads (US$ 56 million) that had already been poorly
maintained before the crisis and had received no maintenance during the crisis;
(ii)     support for strategic public enterprises that were under management contract. This includes
support to:
-        the national airline, Air Madagascar (US$ 17 million), which was on the verge of collapse. The
Government decided to enter into a management contract with a reputable international consulting firm
through May 2004, with the aim of restructuring the company and privatizing it within two years. The
Government's financial support was intended to enable Air Madagascar to repay its debts and resume its
domestic and international flights, most of which had been suspended during the crisis;
-        the northern railway concessionning company, MADARAIL (US$ 13 million). The northern
railway (Antananarivo ­ Antsirabe; Antananarivo ­ Toamasina ­ Lac Alaotra), which had been idle since
2001, is key to further business development in Madagascar as it connects the industrial area of
Antananarivo with the major port of Toamasina. The concessioning process had been further delayed by
the crisis and therefore planned maintenance and investment works had not taken place. Government
finally signed a concessionning agreement in October 2002 with a commitment for payments of US$13
million to finance urgent planned maintenance and investment works, payment of salary arrears and a
social compensation plan linked to voluntary separations.

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1 The components were not revised during project implementation. The replacement of the
supplemental nutrition sub-component by the provision of school supplies to school students was not
registered as a revision of the project's components. The appropriateness of supplemental nutrition is still
being studied by Government.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1 Quality at entry was not assessed by the Quality Assurance Group. This ICR finds that the quality
at entry was satisfactory because (i) project objectives were consistent with the Government's priorities
for economic and social recovery; (ii) the project design incorporated experience and lessons learned from
similar post-conflict situations; and (iii) the project was flexible enough to account for institutional
constraints and risks.

3.5.2 Project preparation was highly participatory and brought together all relevant ministries and
representatives from private sector entities. The formulation of the priority action program was arrived at
through a series of consultative meetings and arbitrations. This process was particularly valuable because
it brought together representatives of the new Government and long-standing civil servants who had not
much interacted since Government had come into power. The detailed sector gap analysis of potential
post-crisis impacts guaranteed that no possible consequences were overlooked while also ensuring that no
duplication existed with programs of other development partners. In the interest of coherence in the Bank's
portfolio, a decision was made to use the same performance indicators for the EERC and the I-CAS.

3.5.3 Consistency with the I-CAS. The EERC, because it was part of the Interim-CAS prepared by Bank
staff shortly after the crisis, was fully consistent with it and built directly on its objectives. The joint Board



                                                       - 5 -

presentation on October 17, 2002 of the I-CAS, portfolio restructuring, EERC and Rural Transport Project
demonstrated the country team's commitment to the delivery of a comprehensive post-crisis assistance
program. Since it built upon the Government's program, which enjoyed donor support, the EERC was
aligned with other donors' projects.

3.5.4 Risk Assessment. The MOP (paragraph 42) contained a realistic assessment of the key risks
affecting the operation . Apart from the risk
                          5                            of the Borrower's institutional weakness and poor
implementation capacity, which was deemed substantial, the other risks were rated modest and mitigated by
the readily forthcoming development assistance and pro-active government actions to restore investor
confidence. The latter included a comprehensive program on good governance, including the creation of an
anti-corruption council.
A number of risk-mitigating measures helped avert some of these risks. First, the Government called for an
early parliamentary election in order to reconfirm its legitimacy. This effort was supported by UNDP, EU
and several bilateral partners who provided technical and financial support to the Government for the
preparation of those elections to ensure that they were fair and transparent. Secondly, in order to ease its
tight budgetary situation, the Government took measures to improve revenue collection and cut non-priority
expenditures, and successfully mobilized additional budget support from the African Development Bank,
the EU, France, Japan, Mauritius, the World Bank and the IMF ­ who helped the Government in updating
the PRGF. Thirdly, to mitigate the significant risk of inadequate administrative capacity and weak
governance, the Government devised a program to streamline and improve budgetary procedures and
launched an anti-corruption campaign.

As the Project's Environmental category was "C", no Bank's safeguard policies were involved.

3.The positive list of imports includes: construction materials such as cement and raw materials; medical
supplies and pharmaceuticals; commodities such as petroleum, fuel products and metals; agricultural
inputs and fertilizers, other than pesticides; and transport machinery.
4.See I-CAS, Section 5..
5 The MOP discussed key risks, which were identified as: (i) renewed political instability following the December
2002 parliamentary elections that were intended to consolidate the government's legitimacy; (ii) insufficient
financing of the program, which could have resulted in macro-instability and social unrest; (iii) a lack of private
sector confidence which would have delayed economic recovery, and (iv) the inability of government to carry out
the proposed program and reforms due to institutional weakness and poor implementation capacity.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1 The overall project outcome is rated satisfactory. The project achieved its objective, which was to
limit and, if possible, reverse the impact of the crisis on the poor. This Credit, which was presented as a
package with the I-CAS and the Rural Transport Project, was very important for the Country's economic
recovery after the crisis in 2002: the choice of instrument, an Emergency Credit, was adequate as a rapid
reaction was key for the operation's success. The Credit was prepared in a highly participatory manner, and
was well targeted, since it responded to the most important and urgent needs at that time, especially through
the creation of a social safety net; free access to health and education services; and rehabilitation of
destroyed infrastructure. This budget support constituted also a critical test of the new government's
commitment and capacity to manage public funds transparently and effectively. Overall, it achieved its
stated objectives even though there is room for improvements in the Project's monitoring process.
The project had a positive impact on poverty reduction, as most of the project's outcome indicators6 were



                                                      - 6 -

met: in education sector, the available data for net enrollment rate was 82% for the primary school in year
school 2002/2003, and the drop-out rate during the same period was less than 10%; in health sector, health
consultations and number of health facilities offering assisted birth, as well as number of assisted births
increased compared to their pre-crisis level. Regarding the income development of rural households in
2003, it was positive given the economic importance of rice cultivation in rural areas as rice yields
increased and producer prices were relatively favorable; lastly, the relative price of rice to essential goods
over the period from November 2002 to March 2004 showed an improvement. It can therefore be
concluded that the rural terms-of-trade (i.e. price of farm produce relative to basic manufactured consumer
items) returned to its pre-crisis range. Data on the availability of basic medicines was not available. The
performance of the EPZ sector is promising and post-crisis recovery has been extremely encouraging, with
exports to the United States under the Africa Growth Opportunity Act (AGOA) in 2003 ($196 million)
exceeding their pre-crisis levels of 2001 ($178 million) by 10 percent7 . Employment has recovered to its
pre-crisis levels ; and a total of 59 enterprises with an estimated investment of MGF 460,000 million and
                 8


employing 28,400 workers were recorded for 2002 and 20039 .
Disbursements under the project were subject to presentation of documentation for eligible imports costing
more than US$20,000 equivalent, with a proviso that the aggregate amount of any one category of imports
could not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the amount of the Credit. Disbursements during the first six months
were lower than forecast because imports were slow to pick up after the crisis.            In order to avoid
jeopardizing the timely implementation of the Government's priority program, the April 2003 supervision
mission therefore recommended that Bank management increase the ceiling for petroleum-related
disbursements to 85 percent.        Management agreed to this proposal and disbursements accelerated
thereafter. The credit was fully disbursed by July 16, 2003 and closed as scheduled on December 31,
2003.
Risks identified in the MOP did not materialize during project implementation.

4.1.2 On the macroeconomic level, the economy emerged in 2003 from the economic slump of 2002 with
real GDP growth estimated at 9.8 percent, reflecting the impact of transport rehabilitation activities and the
rebound of tourism following the recovery of the national airline, although it was still below the 2001
performance . Agriculture rebounded with a good rice harvest , while the textile sector, growing at a rate
              10                                                 11


of 33 percent, saw both employment and export levels increase to their pre-crisis levels. It can be assumed
that domestic investment increased due to a significant rebound in public investment related to
reconstruction activities and support to the public sector. Private investment also increased slightly, but it
had also declined less during the crisis than the public sector12 . Renewed growth was accompanied by a
small increase (1 percent) in the consumer price index, while interest rates remained stable and exceeded
the inflation rate throughout the year13 .

4.1.3 Overall macro-economic performance was mixed, however. By the program's end, the overall
fiscal deficit was larger due to revenue losses equivalent to 0.5 percent of GDP for the last four months of
2003 following the detaxation of a range of capital and consumer goods14 introduced in the last quarter of
2003 and a slippage in budgetary expenditures . The current account balance also increased due to a
                                                  15


smaller-than-expected recovery of exports and an increase in imports in the last quarter of 2003 . Balance
                                                                                                   16


of payments outcomes reflect the widening current account gap resulting from increased imports and the
Central Bank's attempts to avoid a sharp depreciation of the MGF. International reserves amounted to 3.1
months of imports, compared to 4.1 months in 2002 and 3.3 months in 2001.

_______________________________




                                                     - 7 -

5  The MOP discussed key risks, which were identified as: (i) renewed political instability following the
   December 2002 parliamentary elections that were intended to consolidate the government's
   legitimacy; (ii) insufficient financing of the program, which could have resulted in macro-instability
   and social unrest; (iii) a lack of private sector confidence which would have delayed economic
   recovery, and (iv) the inability of government to carry out the proposed program and reforms due to
   institutional weakness and poor implementation capacity.
6
   See details in Annex 1.
7.
  Source: US Department of Trade.
8.Employment in 2001 was 110,000. Source: GEFP.
9
   Source: INSTAT.
10.
   See Macroeconomic indicators evolution in Annex 11.
11
   Rice production increased from 2 603 985 tons in 2002 to 2 868 000 tons in 2003.
12
   Public investment decreased from 7,3% to 4,8% of GDP before reaching 5.8% in 2003. Private investment
   decreased from 11.2% to 9.5% from 2001 to 2002 and reached 10,2% of GDP in 2003.
13
   Despite a substantial increase in the credit to the public sector, the low inflation rate was low, due to a good
   rice harvest that contributed to a decline of food prices by over 10%, the appreciation of the Malagasy franc
   against USD which lowered the oil bill, reflecting in the improvement of terms of trade during the first three
   quarters of 2003.
14
   The de-taxation exempted the goods from all tariffs and VAT.
15
   Annex 11 on Macroeconomic Indicators.
16 Imports increased from 6,781 to 9,606 billions of Malagasy Francs, while exports increased from 4,809 to
   6,931 billions of Malagasy Francs between 2002 and 2003.




                                                       - 8 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

A synthesis of the project's implementation, monitoring and most recent status, by sub-component, is
presented in Annex 8.

4.2.1 Supporting the most vulnerable (US$ 57.7 million). This component has an overall rating of `
satisfactory'.

In the health sector, all planned disbursements were made except for the component on the expansion of
the standard drug list.
Assistance to the Central Drug Purchasing Agency (SALAMA). SALAMA was recapitalized in October
2002, and its arrears in connection with outstanding drug invoices for 1999, 2000 and 2001 were paid as
documentation of drug deliveries for those years, allowing payment of those arrears, was transmitted to the
Ministry of Health. This inflow of funds provided SALAMA with sufficient working capital to buy drugs
and resume its activities. This sub-component is rated satisfactory.
Fee waiver for health facilities (drugs and services) and drug restocking upon resumption of cost
recovery. Because the Government decided to temporarily suspend users' participation fees after the crisis
in order to allow people to use public health facilities (and, indeed, to encourage them to do so), it directly
financed SALAMA's drug purchases which were distributed free of charge to patients by public health
facilities. This helped boost the number of visits to public health centers. Cost recovery was initially
scheduled to resume in January 2003, but the Government decided to push back the deadline to October
2003. Thus, the fee waiver system was in effect for more than one year. This led to an unexpected increase
in the use of drugs, and stocks occasionally ran out as the volume of drugs distributed was four times
higher than normal. Drug restocking resumed in November 2003. This sub-component is rated highly
satisfactory.
Extension of the standard drug list. This initiative aimed to extend the drug and medical consumable list
available at SALAMA to allow hospitals to expand the scope of services delivered. Since this was a new
process in the country, it took a long time to the relevant technicians (surgeons, anesthetists, other
specialists) to agree on standardized technical specifications as well as on the quantities of the products to
be purchased. Once the list was finalized it took even more time for the UNICEF Supply Center in
Copenhagen to identify the suppliers and to quote the corresponding prices. When the order was ready, the
Health Project's funds in the relevant category were exhausted and a reallocation plus a 22 million
supplemental Credit had to be negotiated. This too took a lot of time. The reallocation was finally approved
and the order is scheduled for this coming July. This sub-component is rated unsatisfactory.

In the education sector, the disbursement rate is satisfactory. Planned activities were achieved with minor
changes in one sub-component concerning the distribution of supplemental nutrition. The component is
rated satisfactory.
The government's decision to apply fee waivers and provide free school supplies reduced households'
school charges and boosted enrollment for the 2002-2003 school year. Government support was not evenly
distributed throughout the country, however. Urban schools received most of their allocations and school
supplies on time, whereas remote rural schools had not received theirs by the target date of November
2002. Consequently, parents of pupils in some rural schools were asked to continue paying school fees and
for their children's supplies.
Funds for teachers' salaries were transferred to the CISCOs and 8,000 teachers whose salaries were
usually paid by the parents' association (FRAM) benefited from that financial support.
Finally, regarding supplemental nutrition for students, procedural delays in launching the bids and a



                                                      - 9 -

change in Government's priorities led to a re-allocation of the intended funding towards the purchase of
educational books.

The social safety net is rated highly satisfactory, as more labor-intensive jobs were created than originally
planned. Indeed, the implementation unit, FID, managed to establish a very efficient collaboration with
faith-based and non-faith associations that identified and executed labor-intensive public works projects in
urban and rural areas. A total of 685 contracts were completed, as against 375 contracts projected and
salaries totaling FMG 29 billion were paid. Following up on the creation of the safety net, Government has
formulated a social protection strategy and a strategic approach to the mitigation of the frequent crises that
affect the country.

In rural development: HASYMA's arrears vis-à-vis small cotton farmers were cleared for the planned
amount; in fact, payments were made ahead of schedule and rural communes received their 2002
allocations from the State's budget. In 2003, there was a net increase of block transfers to communes but
the actual amount disbursed was 20 percent less than expected. These allocations covered the communes'
operational costs and investment expenses. Although the funds reached the communes, delays in receiving
them perturbed the execution of activities.



4.2.2 Support to the private sector (US$ 91.5 million). This component is rated satisfactory overall.

Reimbursement of VAT to enterprises. Results were mixed. Although there was a reduction of over 80
percent of projected VAT reimbursement, the actual volume of VAT arrears as of March 2004 had
increased by 15 percent, leaving enterprises with an unpaid balance of FMG 75 billion for the years 2002
and 2003.      Despite these arrears, companies improved their cash flow and the pre-crisis level of
employment (i.e., 100,000 employees) in EPZ alone was attained in January 2004, showing that the EPZ
sector has recovered from the crisis.

Elimination of import tariffs. Government's decision to re-start the economy by means of tax breaks such
as reduced import taxes on cotton production inputs, fertilizer and cement yielded positive results. In fact,
the elimination of import tariffs did not result in loss of earnings for Customs. On the contrary, there were
actually surplus revenues due to Customs' exceptional effort to collect remaining arrears, proceeds from
disputed goods, etc., to compensate for the loss of earnings.
Reimbursement of Government's suppliers' arrears. All Government's arrears to its suppliers were
cleared in a timely manner, in accordance with the implementation plan. This prompt reimbursement
provided financial relief to Government service providers in the form of a fresh infusion of cash enabling
them to recover after the crisis.

4.2.3    Restoration of Public Services (US$ 88.5 million). This component is rated satisfactory overall.

The Government's focus on supporting strategic public enterprises and rehabilitating destroyed
infrastructure was successfully implemented. Funds were transferred and outputs for each sub-component
showed positive results.

Assistance to the national airline successfully boosted the financial situation of the company, which was
close to bankruptcy. Air Madagascar was able to prepare for the creditors' conference at which it present
its business plan for achieving profitability over the medium term. As a result, its creditors agreed to
forgive 50 percent of the debt owed in order to support the recovery strategy. Due to this debt waiver and
the injection of cash from credit proceeds, Air Madagascar was able to start paying off its remaining debt,


                                                     - 10 -

rejoin IATA, and thus resume its international and domestic flights.

Assistance to the Northern railway. Government supported priority activities of the railway, which was
concessioned in October 2002 to MADARAIL. Salary arrears totaling FMG 21 billion were paid and
FMG 18.1 billion were spent on the social compensation plan (including severance pay, housing
allowances, medical coverage and reintegration funds) linked to voluntary departures. Government
co-financing of the priority investment program amounted to FMG 49 billion that enabled the railway line,
which had been inoperative since 2001, to reopen.

Rehabilitation of destroyed infrastructure. The reconstruction of dynamited bridges had been already
completed by October 2002 with support from the European Union. Roads damaged by Cyclone Kesiny
were rehabilitated by the end of 2002. Government has declared road rehabilitation and maintenance a key
development priority and is instituting reforms to allow for a sustainable development and management of
the sector.
___________________________

14The de taxation exempted the goods from all tariffs and VAT.
15Annex 11 on Macroeconomic Indicators.
16Imports increased from 6,781 to 9,606 billions of Malagasy Francs, while exports increased from 4,809 to 6,931
   billions of Malagasy Francs between 2002 and 2003.




                                                      - 11 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1 The credit did not include an explicit institutional development objective. The Government program
was implemented through existing project units, such as CRESAN, CRESED, and FID, or through
commercial entities such as Air Madagascar and MADARAIL.
The project was a budget-support credit, and the public expenditure for the whole recovery program could
be monitored from various departments within the Government (the General Secretary of the Ministry of
Finance, the Public Debt Department, the PIU). Regarding the monitoring system that supported the EERC
and I-CAS, the team mainly used other Bank's projects reports and surveys on the beneficiaries, especially
for health and education sectors.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1 The social stability and security in the country was a major factor outside the control of government
that affected the project's implementation and outcome. The project's proceeds contributed to avoid the
risks of further troubles by putting in place specific actions which helped the population to face the
post-crisis situation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1 Government's full participation in project preparation ensured that funding was made available
exclusively for priority actions. The funds were allocated to items for which the credit was intended. Most
of the planned activities were implemented in a timely manner.
The Government also succeeded in its policy to achieve a stabilization of the macroeconomic situation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1   The implementing agency was fully qualified to manage the collection and processing of
documentation of eligible imports. The agency realized early on that it could not rely solely on the import
declarations available in Antananarivo, and therefore organized regular missions to the main port of
Toamasina.

5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1 Program costs were correctly assessed at time of preparation and there was no funding
shortfall for priority activities.




                                                     - 12 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1 Although the project's main objective was a time-bound contribution to the Borrower's priority
recovery program, the overall sustainability of the project is likely.

6.1.2 In the health sector, SALAMA's operation is sustainable, as this entity is now on sound financial
footing, with a renewed and well-functioning cost recovery system (now called "Fanome"). The fee waiver
system has been extended in the form of an exemption mechanism for the very needy. The following
measures and dispute settlements granted substantial relief to their beneficiaries, thus promoting the
recovery of the targeted sectors: payment of HASYMA's debt to cotton growers; VAT reimbursement to
EPZ companies; payment of Government's arrears to its suppliers; payment of Air Madagascar's creditors;
payment of MADARAIL's staff salary arrears and financial of its social coverage plan.

6.1.3 In the education sector, the program is still ongoing. The school fee waiver is being made the
general rule, since the Government's "Education For All" Plan was endorsed by donors in October 2003,
resulting in a 38 percent increase in the education budget for fiscal 2004. School supplies will be covered
by HIPC and debt relief after completion of the Program Review and Strategy Development (PRSD)
exercise.   Teacher and student numbers are now being assessed for educational planning purposes,
especially with regard to the budget for teachers' salaries. Finally, a national policy on supplemental
nutrition is being developed: the Government intends to set up a food fund in each school by allocating a
certain amount of cash per student that the school will manage.

6.1.4 Government has also set up a permanent safety net operation that will benefit the poorest segments
of society through labor-intensive public works schemes and revenue-generating activities. To this end, a
Coordination Office has been created and the program is to be sustained by funds managed by the FID.

6.1.5 Concerning the cotton sector, HASYMA has enough credit to pay small cotton producers for this
year. The company is now undergoing privatization which, if done properly, could sustain the system.

6.1.6 Budgetary allocations to communes are on track: planned transfers from the Ministry of Budget to
the Ministry of Decentralization have occurred. The challenge will be improving monitoring, especially
regarding true beneficiaries, and the criteria for budget allocation to communes, especially if rural
communes are to receive priority attention.

6.1.7 Import tariff waivers are still in effect, and Government has made an effort to identify eligible
goods more precisely, in order to ensure that they consist of materials and inputs that are beneficial to
investment. Lost income for 2004 totals FMG 40 billion so far. The Government has to ensure better tax
collection to fill this gap.

6.1.8    The sustainability of physical asset reconstruction (roads and bridges, priority investments for
MADARAIL) is assured.

6.1.9 Air Madagascar was able to avert bankruptcy and has posted positive results for the last two
years. The challenges remaining for the airline are: (i) to complete the State's disengagement, as the main
mission of the international consulting firm was to get the company into better shape for its privatization;
(ii) to operate in a more competitive environment in order improve service quality, especially with regard to
airfares, which are still high.



                                                   - 13 -

6.1.10 In the railway sector, additional financing has been made available under the Bank's transportation
program to fully cover the social benefits of workers laid off between 1996-2000, i.e., well before the
concessioning. MADARAIL has expressed concern that the waiver of import duties for trucks, but not for
rolling stock, give the trucking industry an unfair advantage. A request to expand the waiver was denied by
the Government. The railway's activities are proceeding as planned and it is expected to be commercially
viable.

6.1.11 Regarding overall macroeconomic stability, social welfare spending and private sector support,
further commitments are required from the Government to ensure the sustainability of the recovery
program. Completion of activities undertaken under the project would require: (i) continued strong
commitment to project objectives on the part of the Government; (ii) continued donor support to the
Government; and (iii) capacity building and technical assistance to make the Administration more
efficient.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1   Because the Emergency Economic Recovery Credit was designed as budget support, no
transitional arrangements were planned.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1 Performance in identification, preparation and appraisal was highly satisfactory. During project
preparation, the Bank adopted a highly participatory approach involving all relevant ministries and entities.
In addition, the project design drew on lessons learned from similar operations in other countries. Despite a
very uncertain environment, the Bank task team showed responsiveness to clients' need in rapidly
formulating a relatively simple, quick-disbursing operation aimed at supporting the transition. The team
pre-appraised and negotiated the credit in October 2002, and the first installment was disbursed in
December 2002, undoubtedly contributing to the ongoing stabilization effort.

7.1.2 Regarding the choice of instrument, the Bank opted for an emergency credit (OP 8.50) as speed of
preparation and disbursement was crucial. The EERC provided the most flexible and timely instrument to
help mitigate the then existing social crisis and support economic recovery. It also presented a critical test
of the newly established government's commitment to manage public funds transparently and effectively.
The proceeds of the credit (US$50 million equivalent) were disbursed in thirty installments, between
December 06, 2002 and July 2003 upon presentation of the documentation of eligible imports. The
accounts of the credit were to be audited at project completion by an independent auditor acceptable to the
Bank.

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1 Supervision was satisfactory. The skills mix was adequate and follow-up was performed regularly.
The Bank maintained a close dialogue with the authorities and the PIU in order to deal with any difficulty
arising during implementation. During the implementation period, Bank staff intervention was in fact
needed, especially regarding the documentation required for disbursements under the Credit. Project team
interventions were carefully planned and linked to benchmarks or events in project implementation (e.g., a
delayed decision on supplemental nutrition, or expansion of the standard drug list, etc.). Two supervision



                                                     - 14 -

missions occurred within less than a year. Preparation Status Reviews (PSRs) were done in January, April
and November 2003, and were satisfactory.

7.2.2 Bank staff invested considerable time and energy in the project, building a good working relationship
with the Borrower and the implementing partners. The country office followed the project on an ongoing
basis and played a key role in implementation assistance. This continuous support and assistance was key,
especially when dealing with difficulties.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1 Overall, the quality of Bank involvement at the various stages of the operation is rated
satisfactory. The project addressed key problems and was well prepared. The Bank's team reacted quickly
so as to allow rapid project effectiveness.     During implementation, the flexibility of the Bank team
accelerated payments so that the credit could be mobilized as quickly as possible to provide timely funding
for the Government's priority program. .

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1 Borrower performance during preparation was satisfactory. The Borrower collaborated closely
with the Bank in designing the project and the relevant ministries and agencies were consulted. The
Government showed a high level of commitment to the project and took the lead in allocating the funds to
its economic and social recovery program priorities.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1 The Borrower carried out most of the actions required by the Bank, and gave adequate support
to projects funded under the Credit.The Borrower showed flexibility in responding to various requests,
although it experienced some difficulties with decision-making and coordination, causing delays, for
instance, with regard to the supplemental nutrition and drug list extension issues. Nevertheless, Government
performance during implementation was satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1 The performance of the implementing agency was satisfactory. The PIU was initially a very small
but well-organized unit, and proved to be efficient in seeking acceptable solutions to problems encountered
during project implementation (e.g., locating import documents for eligible goods and renegotiating the
aggregate amount so that a particular eligible import could exceed 50 percent of the Credit), keeping track
of Credit proceeds and providing support to the Government. Projects were implemented effectively and
efficiently. The external audit has concluded that financial management generally followed the agreed terms
and that project management's checks and procedures were acceptable. The PIU remained focused on
administrative details essential to project implementation without being much aware of the overall
objectives.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1 Overall, Borrower performance and involvement at the various stages of the operation are
rated satisfactory.



                                                     - 15 -

8. Lessons Learned


8.1.1 The main lessons that can be drawn from the project experience are summarized below:

1. Rapid response was critical in such post-crisis situation. The international community's immediate
reaction was key to soften the crisis' social and economic impacts, and to avoid a severe shortfall of
financing.

2. A simple and clear monitoring system is key. In such situation, the challenge is to combine the
quick-disbursement process with adequate tracking of the use of credit proceeds. Cumbersome
administrative procedures slow the process and undermine the impact on beneficiaries. Each entity's
responsibilities must be clearly defined, especially for a better monitoring process. At the same time, the
origin, objective and expected results of the credit should be communicated to beneficiaries. When those
beneficiaries can be easily identified (e.g., large companies), such communication and follow-up on the
project's results and/or impacts is easy, but this issue becomes more problematic if they are "small
farmers", or "students", etc.

3. EERC can provide budgetary support in a programmatic manner if (i) government has acquired
credibility and has a credible reconstruction plan. The introduction of a system of good governance is a
prerequisite for rapid and sustainable poverty reduction in Madagascar; and (ii) the proper monitoring
instruments are in place. Performance indicators that are agreed-upon between the Bank and the Borrower
are then helpful to both parties. The FOFIFA/Cornell initiative was essential to program monitoring.

4. A participatory approach is crucial for the Project's success to enhance Government's commitment.
This is true at every stage of the project, from its inception to its closure. This approach facilitates
especially dialogue and cooperation during the project's implementation.

5. Involvement of NGOs can be very valuable in project implementation, especially due to their
proximity to the population and their better knowledge of needs. Government allowed the participation of
faith and non-faith based associations in the project which greatly enhanced the effectiveness of the safety
net operation.

6. Objectives of emergency project should be realistic and pragmatic. The challenge is to find the right
balance between challenging objectives and limited implementation capacity of a country that just emerged
from crisis. In this particular case, Government and the Bank focused on priority needs and chose
implementation arrangements that made full use of potential partners.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

1.       Following the 2002 sociopolitical crisis, the Malagasy Government submitted an economic
recovery plan to its main donors. Since the short-term impacts of the crisis on the population were so
serious, the Government decided to implement an Economic and Social Recovery Program to meet the most
urgent needs of the Nation. This program will continue through July 2004.
2.       In order to implement this program, the Malagasy Government solicited assistance from the
International Development Association (IDA) in the form of an Economic Recovery Emergency Credit,
which was granted in the amount of SDR 38 million.


                                                     - 16 -

Project Execution

3.      This credit is noteworthy in that the funds were granted to the Borrower in the form of import
        financing. In this connection, the Credit Agreement defined a list of five (5) eligible import
        categories:
(i)     building materials and raw materials;
(ii)    medical supplies and pharmaceutical products;
(iii)   basic products such as hydrocarbons;
(iv)    fertilizers and agricultural inputs; and
(v)     transportation equipment.

4.      Thus, the Borrower was required to produce documentation for imports valued in excess of "the
exchange value of US$ 20,000" to accompany fund withdrawal applications (WAs). The first WA was
submitted on December 06, 2002.

5.      Acceptable import documents included, among others, (i) certificates of origin of goods; (ii) bills of
lading; (iii) invoices; and (iv) customs statements. The General Directorate of Customs made these
documents available.
6.      It should be pointed out that invoice amounts, in order to be accepted as vouchers, needed be
higher than US$ 20,000. Moreover, the portion allotted for hydrocarbons was not allowed to exceed 50
percent of requests.
7.      The Credit Agreement set a deadline -- June, 30, 2003 ­ for submission of the last WA. This
meant that, by that date, the Borrower had to have presented import documents corresponding to a total
amount of SDR 38 million.
8.      The deadline for submission of WAs to the World Bank was met; import documents totaling SDR
38 million (US$ 50 million) were produced on time.
9.      A deposit account for the IDA funds was opened at the Central Bank. This account received funds
totaling US$ 52,420,440.61.
10.     The use of the US$ 50 million under in the Economic Recovery Plan is broken down in the table in
Annex 1 See Annex 12 of this ICR..
11.     All payments related to the "Support to Public Enterprises" component were made in accordance
with the provisions of the Government's policy letter on Economy and Social Recovery dated October 17,
2002, with the exception of the State's financial participation in Air
Madagascar's capital increase, which amounted to US$ 7 million. These payments break down as follows:



     Companies             Amount disbursed                           Use
     AIR                   US$ 10 million (FMG 67 billion)            Payment of financial obligations and
     MADAGASCAR                                                       re-start of AIR MADAGASCAR
                                                                      operations
     RNCFM                 US$ 5.68 million (FMG 38.1 billion)        Payment of FMG 20 billion in salary
                                                                      arrears  to  RNCFM      agents,   and
                                                                      financing of RNCFM social plan for
                                                                      FMG 18.10 billion
     MADARAIL              US$ 8.24 million (FMG 50,439 billion)      Payment of MADARAIL priority
                                                                      investments
     HASYMA                US$ 3.4 million (FMG 23 billion)           Payment of arrears to HASYMA



                                                    - 17 -

                                                                       cotton growers

12.      With regard to the balance of US$ 7 million still owed to AIR MADAGASCAR under the
arrangement for State financial participation in the airline's capital increase, the Public Treasury is still
awaiting a call for capital from AIR MADAGASCAR, which has not yet been forthcoming. Air
Madagascar has been advised that the sum of US$ 7 million is available to it in the course of 2004 to
support all its investment and overhaul programs, which were developed as a function of this funding
availability.

    Problems encountered


13.      Problems arose during the production and the collection of vouchers (import documents) for
Withdrawal Applications (WA), because few invoices exceeded US$ 20,000, because imports had
difficulty resuming their regular pace after the crisis. Import volumes were still very limited.
14.      As import documents from provincial customs facilities take time to reach the archives in
Antananarivo, it proved necessary to go directly to the provincial facilities. Difficulties also arose here,
however, as archival storage is not always conducted in a uniform manner in such facilities.
15.      Of the eligible import categories, `hydrocarbons and their by-products' was the largest in terms of
both tonnage and value. The Credit Agreement had stipulated that WAs for hydrocarbons could not exceed
50 percent of credit proceeds. As the June 30, 2003 deadline approached, a request for non-objection was
therefore submitted to IDA so that the 50 percent ceiling on hydrocarbon WAs could be exceeded and
invoices totaling more than US$ 16 million accepted. The deadline could otherwise not have been met.
16.      Many import documents had to be discarded because the countries of origin of the goods were not
on IDA's list of acceptable suppliers.

    Lessons learned
-        define the threshold for invoice amounts on the basis of the country's socio-economic situation at
the time the agreement is signed ;
-        extend the list of import categories to other goods ;
-        adopt a more flexible stance towards non-eligible countries (i.e., consider mitigating circumstances
for some countries) ;
review task distribution in monitoring works.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information




                                                      - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                            Actual/Latest Estimate


(i) Primary and secondary school enrollment      Target: 95% of the children enrolled in first to Net enrolment rate for the primary level was
rates at the beginning of the new school year third grade in June 2002 school year to             82% in year school 2002/03, vs. 70% in
(September/ October)                             continue schooling in 2002/2003 school year 2001/2002, and 67% in 2000/2001.



(ii) Drop-out rate during the 2003 school year 08/30/2003: Target: Primary school drop-out For the year school 2002/03:
                                                 rate less than 10% during the year               CP1: 9.8% (first year in primary school)
                                                 Actual: Enrollment 111% of that of previous CP2: 2.7% (second year)
                                                 school year                                      CE: 7.8% (third year)
                                                                                                  CM1: 7.1% (fourth year)
                                                                                                  CM2:-NA (fifth and last year in primary
                                                                                                  school)

(iii) Number of health consultations in formal 08/30/2003:                                        Number of health consultations in public
health facilities                                Target: available data 116/week and facility     health facilities has increased by 100%,
                                                 (December 2002)                                  mainly thanks to the fee waivers.
                                                 Actual:
                                                 08/30/2003:

(iv) Number of health facilities offering        Target: available data 81% of health facility    Slightly the same number of assisted births
assisted birth and number of assisted birth      sample (December 2002)                           in public health facilities.
                                                 Actual:

(v) Availability of basic medicines              08/30/2003:                                      N/A
                                                 Target: January 2002 level of availability (i.e.,
                                                 89%) of 16 basic drugs in 100 health
                                                 facilities visited.
                                                 Actual: 74% of health facility in sample have
                                                 list of basic medicines available.

vii) Qualitative assessment of income            08/30/2003:                                      Rice yields increased to 2,350 kg/ha.
development of rural households                  Target: Focus group discussions in 72            Producer prices were relatively favorable at
                                                 communities--visited during the                  FMG 1,012/kg on average. Given
                                                 crisis--report significant rise in rural incomes The economic importance of rice cultivation
                                                 compared to crisis period.                       in rural areas, this is a strong
                                                 Actual: 73% of 150 communities visited state indication that income development of rural
                                                 that their income situation in November 2002 households in 2003 most probably
                                                 (post crisis) is better or at least the same as   has been positive.
                                                 during the crisis period (June 2002).



(viii) Rural terms-of-trade (i.e., price of farm 08/30/2003:                                      The relative price of rice to PPN over the
produce relative to basic manufactured           Target: Same relative price as in pre-crisis     period Nov. 2002 to March 2004
consumer items). Basic consumer items in         period.                                          shows a further improvement of 16%.
the basket would include salt, sugar, lamp       Actual: Although they recovered in the           Given that in November 2002 the price ratio
petroleum and vegetable oil.(                    post-crisis period, rural terms-of-trade in      was still 20% lower than before the
                                                 Nov/Dec 2002 were about 20% lower than in         crisis, it can be concluded that with the
                                                 Nov/Dec 2001.                                    further improvement of 16%, the price
                                                                                                   ratio is back in its pre-crisis range.




                                                                      - 19 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate


Recapitalize SALAMA with FMG 12 billion      08/30/2003:                                   Transfer done.
                                             Target: 10/20/02:Transfer from the
                                             Government budget to SALAMA
                                             Actual: 10/28/02: transfer done


Payment of SALAMA arrears                    Target: Transfer from the Government          Transfer done.
                                             budget to SALAMA:
                                             11/10/02: FMG 4.4 billion
                                             01/31/03: FMG 5.9 billion
                                             Actual: 12/23/02: FMG 7 billion
                                             2003: 3.3 billion



Drug fee waiver totaling FMG 20 billion      08/30/2003:                                   FMG 17.9 billion received by SALAMA.
(HIPC financing)                             Target:                                       FMG 2.1 billion not paid because of
                                             10/17/02: list of required drugs sent to      non-adherence to administrative procedures.
                                             SALAMA                                        FMG 5 billion as a supplemental was
                                             12/15/02: drugs are imported by SALAMA        allocated for serum.
                                             Actual: Drugs totaling FMG 17.9 billion in
                                             value were imported; additional FMG 5 billion
                                             for serum was allocated.


Service fee waiver totally FMG 6.5 billion   08/30/2003:                                   Transfer done.
(HIPC financing)                             Target: Service fee waiver for FMG 6.5
                                             billion.
                                             Actual: Transfer of 5.6 billion was made.


Restocking at beginning of cost recovery for 08/30/2003:                                   FMG 13 billion completely cleared
FMG 13.5 billion (HIPC financing)            Target: Payment of invoices to SALAMA by
                                             the Ministry of Health.
                                             Actual: Payments will be made from
                                             government budget and not HIPC. Amount
                                             was adjusted to 13 billion; only FMG 1 billion
                                             have been spent, with the remainder
                                             expected starting in late September.



Extension of standard drug list for FMG 22.1 08/30/2003:                                   Purchase expected to occur as soon as $22
billion (financing under CRESAN)             Target:                                       million supplemental is obtained.
                                             11/30/02: bids launched
                                             01/30/03: CRESAN financing
                                             Actual: Because of procurement delays,
                                             orders will be placed directly with UNICEF;
                                             delivery expected shortly.


Education fee waiver for FMG 20 billion      08/30/2003:                                   Transfer to CISCO for all primary schools
(HIPC financing)                             Target:                                       was done at the beginning of the school year
                                             10/24/02: transfer from the Gov't budget to   2003/2004.
                                             DIRESEB
                                             11/07/02 transfer from DIRESEB to CISCOs
                                             11/15/02: transfer from CISCOs to schools
                                             Actual: Transfer from government to CISCO
                                             end 2003. Survey May 2003: 90% of schools
                                             reported having received funds.


School supplies totaling FMG 6.5 billion     08/30/2003:                                   All primary schools had received about 0.7
(HIPC financing)                             Target:                                       textbooks per student and per subject (ratio)
                                             10/31/02: school supplies to CISCOs           by the end of the 2002/2003 school year.
                                             11/15/02: school supplies transferred by




                                                                - 20 -

                                               CISCOs to schools
                                               Actual:    School supplies received in only
                                               50% of cases. Book delivery for Tana and
                                               Fianar still ongoing.


Education - FRAM salaries for FMG 3.5          08/30/2003:                                     Funds for salaries were transferred to
billion (HIPC financing)                       Target:                                         CISCOs.
                                               10/24/02: transfer from Government budget       8000 FRAM teachers are paid out of the
                                               to DIRESEB                                      regular education budget.
                                               11/07/02 transfer from DIRESEB to CISCOs
                                               11/15/02: transfer from CISCOs to schools
                                               Actual: FRAM teachers were paid FMG
                                               450,000 each.


Creation of labor-intensive jobs for FMG 44    08/30/2003:                                     685 contracts were completed for a total of
billion (FMG 10 billion from HIPC, FMG 34      Target:                                         FMG 38 billion.
billion from FID)                              10/01/02: establishment of a Coordination
)                                              Office
                                               10/16/02: Program definition and launch
                                               11/15/02: 20 contracts signed between DIF
                                               and NGOs / associations
                                               06/30/03: 125 contracts signed; FMG 15
                                               billion paid to workers for 1.9 million work
                                               days
                                               Actual:
                                               10/01/02: office established
                                               10/16/02: program launched
                                               12/20/02: 120 contracts signed; FMG 30
                                               billion spent.
                                               No information available on HIPC activities


Arrears to 17,000 small HAYSMA farmers         08/30/2003:                                     Payment made.
                                               Target:
                                               10/31/02: agreement between BOA and the
                                               Government
                                               11/30/02: payment of farmers by BOA for
                                               FMG 13 billion
                                               Actual: 10/31/02: agreement signed
                                                         11/15/02: payment made


Support to rural communes: 2002 and 2003       08/30/2003:                                     Transfer fully completed.
allocation                                     Target:
                                               10/17/02: 2nd transfer to communes from the
                                               Government budget for FMG 13.9 billion
                                               06/30/03: transfer of FMG 161.2 billion.
                                               Actual: 10/30/02: transfer of FMG 13.9
                                               billion made.
                                               Additional transfers not for total of FMG
                                               161.2 billion, but for only FMG 30 million,
                                               plus FMG 10 million per commune.


Private sector recovery: Reimbursement of      08/30/2003:                                     Regarding dates of reimbursement, 2002
VAT                                            Target:                                         arrears were reimbursed. Arrears for 2003
                                               Cumulative reimbursement through 10/15/02: were paid throughout 2003 and in the first
                                               FMG 51.3 billion                                two months of 2004.
                                               12/15/02: FMG 40 billion
                                               06/30/03: FMG 74.9 billion
                                               Actual:
                                               12/20/02: FMG 130 billion paid
                                               2003: FMG 71 billion paid


Private sector recovery: Elimination of import Target: 10/31/02: import tax moratorium for     At the end of December 2003, customs
tariffs (textile inputs, cement, fertilizer)   items on the positive list                      registered surplus revenues of FMG 94.5
                                                         01/03/03: import tax restructuring in billion against projections, thus canceling out
                                               the 2003 Budget Law for items on the            lost earnings. (Source: Mr. José from




                                                                   - 21 -

                                               positive list                                Customs Department)
                                               Actual: 12/20/02: moratorium granted and
                                               cost now estimated at FMG 60.8 billion
                                               instead of estimated FMG 20.8 billion.
                                               07/31/03: customs receipts higher by FMG
                                               134 billion, offsetting lost customs revenue
                                               05/03: government grants comprehensive
                                               import tax exemption.



Private sector recovery: Supplier arrears      08/30/2003:                                  Arrears 2001 and 2002 were cleared.
(2001)                                         Target:
                                               10/15/02: FMG 373 billion
                                               12/15/02: FMG 47 billion
                                               Actual: 10/15/02: FMG 373 billion
                                                         12/15/02: FMG 47 billion
                                                          06/30/02: additional payments for
                                               2002 arrears



Restoration of public services: Air            08/30/2003:                                  US$ 10 million were paid;
Madagascar                                     Target: 12/10/02: transfer of FMG 67 billion The transfer of US$ 7 million has not yet
                                               (US$ 10 million)                             occurred, pending a stakeholder meeting to
                                               1st semester 2003: Transfer of FMG 33.6      be held once the 2002 accounts are audited
                                               billion (US$ 5 million)                      (which is supposed to happen soon).
                                               2nd semester 2003: Transfer of FMG 13.4
                                               billion (US$ 2 million)

                                               Actual:
                                               12/02/02: paid US$ 3 million
                                               12/06/02: paid US$ 5 million
                                               12/09/02: paid US$ 2 million
                                               Outstanding US$ 7 million will be transferred
                                               once 2002 accounts have been closed.



Restoration of public services: Rehabilitation 08/30/2003:                                  Payment made.
of Northern Railway - salary arrears           Target:
                                               10/11/02: payment of 1 billion
                                               12/15/02: payment of FMG 20 billion
                                               Actual:
                                               10/11/02: payment made
                                               12/15/02: payment made


Restoration of public services: Rehabilitation 08/30/2003:                                  Payment made.
of Northern Railway - social plan              Target: February, 2003: full payment of FMG
                                               18.1 billion
                                               Actual:
                                               06/30/03: full payment made

1End of project




                                                                    - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

 Project cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

         Components                       Activities               Costs
                                                                 US$ (million)
 COMPONENT 1                   Supporting the Most Vulnerable        57.7
 COMPONENT 2                   Assisting Private Sector              91.5
                               Recovery
 COMPONENT 3                   Restoration of Public Services        88.5
 TOTAL                                                             237.7




                                           - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


N/A




                                      - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count            Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               N/A

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               October 2002              6     Economists
                                         1     Financial Management
                                         1     Education
                                         1     Health
                                         1     Rural development
                                         1     Procurement
                                         1     Legal
                                         1     TTA

 Supervision
               2002 December              1    Economist                            S
                                          1    Financial Management
                                          1    Education
                                          1    Health
                                          1    Rural development
                                          1    Private Sector
                                          1    Legal
                                          2    TTA
               2003 September             1    Economist
                                          1    Financial Management
                                          1    Education
                                          1    Health
                                          1    Rural development
                                          1    Private Sector
                                          1    Legal
                                          2    TTA

 ICR
               12/23/2002                       CO-TTL (2); ECONOMIST                               S
                                                (3); HEALTH SPECIALIST
                                                (1); RURAL DEV.
                                                SPECIALIST (1);
                                                EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                                (1); TTA (1



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  ---                           ---
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    39.8                        216,466
  Supervision                                9.8                        34,394



                                                - 25 -

ICR      3.5           9,758
Total    53.2         260,618




            - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


·    Memorandum and Recommendation of the President on a Proposed Credit to the Republic
of Madagascar, October 23, 2002
·    Development Credit Agreement, Credit Number 3716-MAG, November 15, 2002
·    Aide Mémoire, Mission de la Banque mondiale en République de Madagascar du 2 au 16
octobre 2002
·    Aide Mémoire, Mission de la Banque mondiale en République de Madagascar du 16 octobre
2002
·    Aide Mémoire, Mission de la Banque mondiale en République de Madagascar du 16 au 23
décembre 2002
·    Aide Mémoire, Mission de la Banque mondiale en République de Madagascar du 1 au 4
septembre 2003
·    Rapport relatif à l'audit externe du Crédit d'Urgence de Redressement Economique
(CURE), Groupement Mazars Fivoarana/
     Mazars & Guérard, 18 février 2004




                                               - 29 -

                  Additional Annex 8. Implementation, monitoring, and most recent status of the EERC

                  Component 1: Support for the most vulnerable: A)                 Health
          Activity         Cost       Sources of   Disbursement  Implementation                                Status of reform

                        (FMG billion) financing                      plan

                                      Budget     PPTE               CRESAN                                         Effective
                                                                                                                      Rate
Assistance to the
Central Drug
Purchasing
Agency(SALAMA)

a) Re-capitalization   12.0           12.0                                                                            12.0
                                                                                                                      10.3
                                                                                                                     100%
                                                                                                                     100%
                                                                                October 20, 2002: Transfer from the government budget to SALAMA

                                                                                Transfer done on October 28, 2002.
b) Arrears repayment   10.3           10.3                                       Transfer from the government budget to
                                                                                 SALAMA November 10, 2002: FMG 4.4 billion
                                                                                Jan 31, 2003: FMG 5.9 billionFirst payment of FMG 7 billion was made in
                                                                                2002; the remainder of FMG 3.3 billion was transferred in 2003.
Fee waiver for health
facilities
(until October 2003)
a) Drugs               20.0                      20.0                                                                 22.9
                                                                                                                    114%
                                                                                October 17, 2002: list of drugs sent to SALAMA

                                                                                mid-December: drugs are imported by SALAMADrugs valued at FMG 17.9
                                                                                billion were received. FMG 2.1 billion were not paid because waiver was
                                                                                declined due to non-adherence to administrative procedures. In addition to
                                                                                the initial amount, there was a supplemental amount of FMG 5 billion for
                                                                                the purchase of reagents and serum.

b) Services            6.5                       6.5                            5.0578%November 30, 2002: 1st transfer to hospitals (Phagédis)
                                                                                January 31, 2003: 2nd transfer to hospitals
                                                                                The final amount was adjusted to FMG 5.6 billion, instead of FMG 6.5
                                                                                billion. Of the 5.6 billion planned transfer to Phagédis (to help district
                                                                                pharmacies managed by NGOs to collect a 6% margin on the value of drugs
                                                                                sold, in compensation for revenues lost during the period of free drug
                                                                                distribution), only FMG 4.05 billion were transferred due to non-adherence
                                                                                to administrative procedures. Anti-tuberculosis drugs totaling FMG 500
                                                                                million and X-ray film developer totaling FMG 500 million were also
                                                                                purchased.
c) Restocking at       13.5                      13.5                           1396%December 30, 2002: payment of invoices to SALAMA by the
beginning of                                                                    Ministry of Health. Adjusted to FMG 13 billion, and completely cleared in
cost-recovery                                                                   November 2003. The Government delayed the reinstatement of
                                                                                cost-recovery by nearly a year, extending the reinstatement date from
                                                                                January 2003 to October 2003.
Extension of standard  22.1                                           22.1      00Bids launched by November 30, 2002
drug list (e.g.: for
surgery and                                                                     January 30, 2003: CRESAN financing Bids were delayed. It
reanimation)                                                                    was then suggested that drugs should be supplied directly by
                                                                                UNICEF in order to eliminate the need for bidding. There
                                                                                was a significant initial delay due to questions about the
                                                                                details of the medical consumables. Once the order was
                                                                                finalized, there was insufficient cash in the CRESAN account
                                                                                because of all the ongoing commitments. Therefore, the
                                                                                purchase of consumables by UNICEF will occur as soon as
                                                                                the supplemental $22 million is obtained.
TOTAL                  84.4           22.3       40.0                 22.1




                                                                   - 30 -

                                                   B) Education

         Activity     Cost FMG     Sources of                                                        Status of reform
                      billion      financing   Disbursement  Implementation
                                                                 Plan
                                     Budget        PPTE         CRESED                                   EffectiveRate
Fee waiver                  20,0                   20,0                                                       15.8

School supplies              6,5                    6,5                                                     6,579%

                                                                            100%October 24, 2002: Transfer from the government budget to
                                                                            DIRESEB

                                                                            November 7, 2002: transfer from DIRESEB to CISC0s

                                                                            November 15, 2002: transfer from CISCOs to schools

                                                                            October 31, 2002: school supplies to CISCOs

                                                                            November 15, 2002: school supplies transferred by CISC0 to
                                                                            schoolsCredits were totally transferred to CISCOs at the end of
                                                                            2002. In 2003, schools would have received a significant portion of
                                                                            these credits had there not been numerous cash management
                                                                            problems at the CISCO level that delayed these transfers.
                                                                            Survey April/May 2003: 90% of surveyed schools had received all
                                                                            or part of the funds to be allocated to them. According to the
                                                                            MINESEB report, 79% of funds were transferred to schools. A new
                                                                            evaluation may be undertaken by MENRS in June 2004 to assess
                                                                            all transfers to schools.

                                                                            School supplies were financed up to the initial amount of FMG 6.5
                                                                            billion.

                                                                            Funds for salaries were transferred to CISCOs.

                                                                            As there were important delays in launching the bids for
                                                                            supplemental nutrition, for 2003 the fund was used to finance
                                                                            additional purchases of educational books for all primary
                                                                            grades. Supplemental nutrition will be financed by the
                                                                            government's budget in 2004 and the GOM is preparing a school
                                                                            nutrition strategy.
Salaries (FRAM)              3.5                    3.5                     3.5100%October 24, 2002: Transfer from the government budget
                                                                            to DIRESEB

                                                                            November 7, 2002: transfer from DIRESEB to CISC0

                                                                            November 15, 2002: transfer from CISCO to schools
Supplemental nutrition      27.0                                  27.0      27.0100%November 2002: call for bids

                                                                            Daily distribution for all primary
                                                                            students in 11ème, 10ème and 9ème
                                                                            as of March 2003
TOTAL                       57.0                   30.0           27.0




                                                              - 31 -

                                                    C) Social safety net

         Activity         Cost FMG     Sources of                                                                         Status of reform
                           billion      financing       Disbursement       Implementation plan

                                          PPTE               FID                Effective                                          Rate

Creation of                 44.0          10.0              34.0                                          October 1, 2002: Establishment of a
labor-intensive                                                                                           Coordination Office
jobs
                                                                                                          October 16, 2002: Program definition and launch

                                                                                                          November 15, 2002: 20 contracts
                                                                                                          signed between DIF and
                                                                                                          NGOs/associations

                                                                                                          June 30: 125 contracts signed; FMG 15 billion
                                                                                                          paid to workers for 1,943,000 person/days

                                                                                                          December 31, 2003: 250 contracts
                                                                                                          signed; FMG 29 billion paid to workers.

                                                                                                          Of 767 signed contracts, 685 were completed for a
                                                                                                          total of FMG 38 billion and 4,066,847
                                                                                                          person/days. FID expressed a desire to evaluate
                                                                                                          the project's profitability and efficiency, although
                                                                                                          disbursements and finished contracts have shown
                                                                                                          satisfactory results.

TOTAL                       44.0          10.0              34.0



                                                  D) Rural development


         Activity           Cost     Sources of
                         FMG billion financing        Disbursement     Implementation plan                         Status of reform

                                      Budget    Effective              Rate
Payment of arrears to       13.0       13.0     13.0                   100%               October 31, 2002: agreement
17.000 small                                                                              between BOA and the
farmers (HASYMA)                                                                          Government

                                                                                          November 30, 2002: payment of
                                                                                          farmers by BOA
                                                                                          The total amount of FMG 13 billion was paid to the farmers.
                                                                                           BOA's advance was totally reimbursed by the
                                                                                           government.
Support to rural
communes

a) Transfer to communes     15.3       15.3     15.3                   100%               1st transfer already completed

b) Rest payment of 2002                    13.9
allocation                  13.9                13.9                   100%               October 17, 2002: 2nd transfer to
                                                                                          communes from the Government
                                                                                          budget

                                                                                          Transfer occurred at the end of October 2002.

c) Increase of transfers   161.2       161.2    131.4                  80%                2 June 30, 2003: transfer to
2003                                                                                      communes from the Government
                                                                                          budget

                                                                                          Transfers started in February 2003: for each commune, FMG 30
                                                                                          million, supplemental grants for recurrent expenditures and a
                                                                                          commitment of FMG 10 million for investment expenditures.
                                                                                          131.4 billion were transferred for 2003
TOTAL                      203.4       203.4



                                                                     - 32 -

Component 2. Assistance to private sector recovery


            Activity      Cost      Sources of
                        FMG billion financing       Disbursement      Implementation                           Status of reform
                                                                          plan
                                     Budget   Effective              Rate
  Reimbursement of        228          228    Checks: 75.2           33%             Cumulated reimbursement until
  VAT                                                                                October 15, 2002: FMG 51.3 billion

                                              Non-cash transfers:    50%             December 15, 2002: FMG 40 billion
                                              113
                                                                                      1st semester 2003: FMG 136.7 billion
                                              Total: 188.2           82.5%

                                                                                     For 2002, arrears total FMG 108 billion instead of 91.3 billion
                                                                                     and the figure for 2003 is FMG 155 billion instead of 136.7
                                                                                     billion. There is an increase of 15% in arrears in March 2004 for
                                                                                     the years 2002 and 2003.
                                                                                     For 2002, checks issued amount to FMG 34.5 billion and for
                                                                                     2003, FMG 40.7 billion. There were also non-cash transfers of
                                                                                     FMG 51.7 billion (2002) and FMG 61.3 billion (2003). This
                                                                                     gives a clearance of FMG 86.2 billion for 2002 and FMG 102
                                                                                     billion for 2003 or an execution rate of 94% in 2002 and 75% in
                                                                                     2003 compared to indicators set out in the implementation plan, if
                                                                                     non-cash transfers are included.
                                                                                     The outstanding amounts according to the latest arrears data are
                                                                                     estimated at FMG 22 billion (2002) and FMG 53 billion (2003).
                                                                                     Regarding dates of reimbursement, 2002 arrears were reimbursed
                                                                                     on [____] . Arrears for 2003 were paid through 2003 and in the
                                                                                     first two months of 2004.

                                                                                     At the end of December 2003, customs registered surplus revenues
                                                                                     of 94.5 billion against projections, thus canceling out lost
                                                                                     earnings.

                                                                                     Arrears for 2001 and 2002 were cleared.         Payments for 2002
                                                                                     were made at the end of May and at the end of June, 2003.

  Elimination of          60.8        60.8                                           October 31, 2002: import tax
  tariffs for imports                                                                moratorium for items on the positive list
  (textile inputs,
  cement, fertilizer)                                                                March 2003: Import tax restructuring in the 2003 Budget Law for
                                                                                     items in the positive list
  Supplier arrears       420.0        420.0                                          October 15, 2002: FMG 373 billion
  (2001)
                                                                                     December 15, 2002: FMG 47 billion
  TOTAL                  708.8        708.8




                                                                   - 33 -

Component 3: Restoring public services


             Activity           Cost       Sources of
                             (FMG billion) financing    Disbursement    Implementation plan                      Status of reform

                                             Budget         PPTE              Others                                EffectiveRate
    Air Madagascar             114.0          114.0                                         6759%December 10, 2002: Transfer of FMG 67
                                                                                            billion (US$10 million) to Air Madagascar

                                                                                           1st semester 2003: Transfer of FMG 33.6
                                                                                           billion (US$5 million) to
                                                                                           Air Madagascar

                                                                                           2nd semester 2003: Transfer of FMG 13.4 billion (US$2
                                                                                           million) to Air Madagascar

                                                                                            Funds equivalent to US$ 10 million were paid:
                                                                                           December 2: US$ 3 million
                                                                                           December 6: US$ 5 million
                                                                                           December 9: US$ 2 million
                                                                                           These US$ 10 million were used to prepare the creditors'
                                                                                           conference and to re-start the company (IATA membership
                                                                                           and international flights)
                                                                                           The transfer of US$ 7 million has not yet occurred, pending a
                                                                                           stakeholders' meeting to be held once the 2002 accounts are
                                                                                           audited (which is supposed to occur soon). The meeting may
                                                                                           take place in mid-2004.
                                                                                           If stakeholders decide on a capital increase, the Government
                                                                                           will allocate the US$ 7 million.
    Rehabilitation of
    Northern
    Railway
    (a) Salary arrears          21.0          17.0           4.0                            2095%October 11: Payment of FMG 1 billion

                                                                                           December 1, 2002: Payment of FMG 20 billion
                                                                                           FMG 20 billion were transferred in the third week of
                                                                                           December. The Treasury received arrears totaling FMG
                                                                                           19.997 billion.
     (b) Social plan            18.1          18.1                                          18.1100%
                                                                                            February 2003: full payment

                                                                                            FMG 18.1 billion were available in the PASERP
                                                                                            account at the Treasury as of June 2003.
                                                                                            Severance pay, housing allowances, medical
                                                                                            coverage and reintegration funds are all covered in
                                                                                            that social plan.
    (c) Priority investments    49.0          49.0                                          49
                                                                                            100% December 1, 2002: Transfer of
                                                                                            FMG 35 billion for 2002 priority investments to
                                                                                            MADARAIL

                                                                                           2nd semester 2003: Transfer of FMG 14 billion for
                                                                                           2003 priority investment to
                                                                                            MADARAIL

                                                                                            MADARAIL received FMG 35 billion, which it
                                                                                            used to purchase 7 rail engines and some spare
                                                                                            parts and to perform some rehabilitation.

                                                                                            The remaining FMG 14 billion was received in
                                                                                            December 2003.
    Reconstruction              3.2                                            3.2          3.2100% October 15, 2002: all works have been
    of 16 dynamited                                                                         completed (these are temporary repair works for
    bridges                                                                                 the next two years; definitive repairs are estimated
                                                                                            at FMG 15.4 billion)
                                                                                            Accomplished before December 2002.




                                                                    - 34 -

Reconstruction      12.8                              12.8     12.8100%October 15, 2002: all works have been
of road and                                                    completed Accomplished before December 2002.
bridges
damaged by the
cyclone (Kesiny)
Road maintenance    321.4  47.0         52.4          222.0    Implementation as defined by Ministry of Public
                                                               works

                                                               Funds disbursed and activities completed.
TOTAL               539.5      245.1    56.4          238.0




                                             - 35 -

Additional Annex 9. Direct Crisis Impacts in selected Sectors:


Main Risks and Government Strategy/Actions

        Sector                     Direct crisis impacts                    Crisis Consequences if No Action taken                Governme
Agriculture/ Rural   § dropinfarmpricesfortraditionalproducts          § productivitydecreaseandloweroutputdue               a.    anti-locust
                     § anti-locustcampaignhalted                             to diminished use of agricultural inputs        funded out of H
                     § harvestcollectiondisrupted(nocreditsfor          and                                                  b.    tax exemp
                         collectors)                                         decayed infrastructure                          seed distribution
                     § severalagro-businessesceasedproduction           § locustinvasionleadingtowidespread                  established
                                                                        harvest                                              c.    repayment
                                                                             lossed                                          cotton and sugar
                                                                        bankruptcy of agro-business
Education          § teachinginterrupted,teacherabsenteeism,           § failureofstudentstoreturntoschoolforlack            a.    fee waiver
                         urban school drop-out                               of family income                                2002/2003) part
                   § inabilityoffamiliestopayforschoolsupplies§ parentscannotfinanceschoolsuppliesfor                        b.    support to
                                                                             following school year                           (nutrition, supp
Health, HIV/AIDS,  § availabilityofbasicmedicinesand                   § lowdemandforhealthservicesduetolower                § partialwai
nutrition                immunization down, health utilization down household revenues                                       (medicines, serv
                         (15%)                                         § increasedrisksof(i)communicablediseases;            HIPC
                   § delayedepidemiologicalassessmentof                (ii) infant and maternal mortality; (iii) spread of   § prioritizati
                         STD/HIV/AIDS and delayed effectiveness of HIV/AIDS                                                  necessary recur
                         anti HIV/AIDS project                         § breakdownofgenericdrugsystem                        effectiveness of
                   § retailpriceincreasesforbasicfoodstuffs            § increasedfoodinsecurity                             § SALAMA
                                                                                                                             § socialsafe
                                                                                                                             FID, AGETIPA
Industry           § 150,000additionalunemployed(ofwhich               § lackofinvestorconfidence                            a.    promotion
                         100,000 in the EPZ                            § furtherbankruptciesofindebtedfirms                  public/private c
                   § delaysinVATreimbursement                          § sloweconomicrecovery,leadingtolow                   policy
                                                                       investment levels                                     b.    guarantee
                                                                                                                             c.    tax breaks
                                                                                                                             arrears to privat
Public sector      § revenuecollapseuntilJuly2002andpublic             § fiscalshortfallnotfinanced,leadingtocutsin          a.    promotion
                    investment program at standstill until August 2002 basic social services and/or inflation/depreciation   b.    illegal lice
                   § treasurybondtradingsuspended                      § internalrevenuesremainlow                           governance pro
                   § intergovernmentalfinancialcircuits                § absorptionofpublicsectorcannotbeincreased
                    interrupted                                        in the short run
                   § foreignexchangetradingsuspendedby                 § netwithdrawaloftreasurybondsbyprivate
                    Central Bank until August 2002                     banks
Tourism            § 95percentdeclineintouristtravelin2002             slow restoration of overseas confidence               a.    budget pri
                    until September                                    § AirMadagascar'sdifficultieslimittouristtravel       b.    collection
                                                                                                                             ongoing
                                                                                                                             c.    emergency
                                                                                                                             agreed upon; ea
                                                                                                                             for all projects a
                                                                                                                             absorptive capa
                                                                                                                             d.    backing of
                                                                                                                             central Bank cre
                                                                                                                             e.    budget pri
                                                                                                                             communities, a
Transport, trade   § petroleumpriceinblockadedareas                     §slowreconstructionofvitalinfrastructures            a.    promotion
                    increased 500%                                      §underfundingofroadmaintenancework,                  private/public se
                   § 23bridgesdestroyedincrisisanddueto                 leading to further decay of infrastructure           b.    manageme
                    cyclone Kesiny                                      §delaysinfinalizingconcessionofNorthern              Madagascar sign
                   § lackofroutinemaintenanceofroads,                   Railway
                    railways                                            §increasedisolationofruralcommunities




                                                        - 36 -

§ AirMadagascar haltedmostservices
§ Externaltradedown50percent




                           - 37 -

Additional Annex 10. Priority Actions and Programs in the Recovery program

 (October 2002 -July 2003)

   Objectives                 Activities                           Costs (US$ Sources of financing
                                                                   million)

   Support for the Most      Health:                               12.5       General budget; HIPC funds; World
   Vulnerable                a) Waiver of cost recovery                       Bank's Health project

                             b) Recapitalization of SALAMA
                             and arrears payment

                             c) Extension of standard drug list

                             Education:                            8.5        General budget HIPC funds; World Bank'

                             a) Fee waiver (public); b)Salaries               Education project

                             for privately paid teachers (FRAM)

                              Social safety nets: labor intensive  6.5        General budget; HIPC funds; World Bank
                              job creation                                    Community Development Fund

                              Rural Development:                   30.2       General budget

                              a) Support for rural farmers

                              b) Support to communes

                             SUB-TOTAL                             57.7

   Assist Private Sector     Reimbursement of VAT                  26.1       General budget
   Recovery

                              Reimbursement of supplier            62.3       General budget
                              arrears

                              Elimination of tariffs for imports   3.1        General budget
                              (textile inputs, cement, fertilizer)

                             SUB-TOTAL                             91.5

   Restoring Public Services Air Madagascar                        17         General budget

                              Rehabilitation of Northern           13         General budget
                              Railway

                              Reconstruction of destroyed          2.5        EU project; World Bank Community
                              bridges and roads                               Development Fund

                              Maintenance of roads                 56.0       General budget; EU project; World Bank
                                                                              Transport Projects

                             SUB-TOTAL                             88.5



                              TOTAL                                237.7




                                                 - 38 -

Additional Annex 11. Macroeconomic Indicators




                                       - 39 -

- 40 -

Additional Annex 12. Annex to Government's Assessment of the Project

MINISTRY OF ECONOMY, FINANCE,
       Antananarivo April 20, 2004
       AND BUDGET
   SECRETARIAT GENERAL
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF TREASURY
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF PUBLIC DEBT

                   STATUS OF PAYMENT FOR ACTIVITY SECTORS FINANCED UNDER
                             THE ECONOMIC RECOVERY EMERGENCY CREDIT
                                             ( C U R E )
        ( Credit Agreement n° 3716 MAG date November 15, 2002 for an amount of SDR 38,000,000 )

ACTIVITY         AMOUNT             PAYMENT SCHEDULE
SECTOR           PLANNED                                          PAYMENT MADE

                                                                  Amount Disbursed

AIR              FMG 114.00 billion December 15; 2002        US$ 3,000,000
MADAGASCAR       (US$ 17 million)   Payment of FMG 67
                                    billion
                                    (US$ 10 million)




                                                             US$ 5,000,000




                                                             US$ 2,000,000
                                                             (FMG 13,249,920,000)




                                                 - 41 -

ACTIVITY    AMOUNT             PAYMENT SCHEDULE
SECTOR      PLANNED                                    PAYMENT MADE

                                                       Amount Disbursed

                               1st semester 2003
                               Payment of FMG 33
                               billion
                               (US$ 5 million)

                               2nd semester 2003
                               Payment of FMG 13.4
                               billion
                               (US$ 2 million)

RNCFM       FMG 20.00 billion  December 01, 2002
            (US$ 3 million)    Payment of FMG 18.10                        FMG 20,000,000,000
                               billion
                               (US$ 3 million)

            FMG 18.10          February 2003
            BILLION            Payment of FMG 18.10                        FMG 18,100,000,000
            (US$ 2.68 million) billion
                               (US$ 2.68 million)

MADARAIL                       December 01, 2002
            FMG 49.00 billion  Payment of FMG 35                           FMG 35,000,000,000
            (US$ 7.30 million) billion                                     (Euro 5,135,998. 30)
                               (US$ 5.10 million)

                               2nd semester 2003                           FMG 15,438,951,705
                               Payment of FMG 14                           (Euro 2,144,001. 07)
                               billion
                               (US$ 2.20 million)




HASYMA      FMG 23. 00 billion October 31, 2002                            FMG 13,000,000,000
            (US$ 3.40 million) Contract between BOA
                               and Government




                               November 30, 2002                           FMG 10,000,000,000
                               Payment for producers by
                               BOA




                                             - 42 -

- 43 -

- 44 -

