Report No. PID11488
Project Name             MADAGASCAR-Emergency Economic Recovery...
Credit
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   Central government administration (100%)
Project ID               P080345
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF MADAGASCAR
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND PLAN
Contact Person: Mr. Modeste Raveloson
Tel: +261-20-2232949
Fax: +261-20-2228508
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        October 8, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      October 3, 2002
Bank Approval Date       November 14, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
From 1997 to 2001, Madagascar's growth rates were among the highest in
Africa, with inflation declining to below 10 percent. Underpinning this
high-growth and low-inflation developments were the prudent fiscal and
monetary policies, accompanied by substantial external assistance, a
program of structural reform, and accelerated inflows of foreign direct
investment. However, at the beginning of 2002, Madagascar plunged into a
deep political crisis. The crisis started following contested first round
elections in this Indian Ocean country, which is the fourth largest island
of the world and has a population of 16 million, on December 16, 2002.
The two major candidates, the then-incumbent president Didier Ratsiraka
and the mayor of the capital Antananarivo, Marc Ravalomanana disagreed on
the outcome of the elections. Mediation attempts of the Organization of
African States [now African Union] failed and the stand-off grew more and
more fierce with large parts of the highlands isolated from the coastal
areas through the destruction of bridges and road blocks. Two parallel
Governments with two Central Banks were established, leading to a freezing
of Madagascar's assets abroad, a suspension of foreign exchange trading
and a closure of the treasury bond market for several months. Violent
clashes were seldom but did claim several hundred lives.International
recognition of the new Government of President Marc Ravalomanana in June
and July 2002 ended the political crisis. Domestic and foreign support
for Mr. Ravalomanana grew steadily during the political crisis and until
the end of June, his supporters were able to capture all but one of the
six provinces of the country in a peaceful way. Widespread international
recognition, an unfreezing of Madagascar's foreign assets and control of
the last province ended the political crisis in July. The economic
embargo of the highland areas has ended, roads have been reopened, all
ports have started to operate normally, and destroyed bridges are being
rebuilt. Similarly, the foreign exchange market and the treasury bond
market function normally now. Integrity of the public financial system
has been re-established and key public services - at a standstill during



the crisis - are being restored.While the country finds itself in a deep
socioeconomic crisis, there are signs of hope. First, Madagascar did not
descend into military or ethnic conflict. Attacks against individuals'
lives and their properties remained limited. Now the country stands
united behind the new government. Second, the new government was voted
into office on an anti-corruption platform. The government has already
undertaken actions to attack corruption, including the preparation of a
report examining the massive overspending of the presidential special
funds and the creation of an anti-corruption task force at the
presidency. Currently, the Government is preparing a decree that requires
all public officials to regularly declare their assets. Third, after
initial hesitation the international community has strongly supported the
government's reconstruction and development program.
2. Objectives
The World Bank proposes to make available US$ 40 million for an Emergency
Economic Recovery Credit (EERC) to address urgent financing needs until
mid-2003 which cannot be provided through other instruments. The EERC
would provide quick-disbursing liquidity to assist Madagascar in
rebuilding its social, economic and physical assets.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The EERC would provide vital financial support for Madagascar's
post-crisis recovery period. An EERC provides the most flexible and timely
instrument to help mitigate the existing social crisis and support
economic recovery. The main conditions to make this assistance effective,
namely a united country and a committed government, are in place. The EERC
would also present a critical test of the new government's commitment to
manage public funds transparently and effectively. Early engagement in
post-crisis situations is critical to help stabilize crisis-torn countries
and avoid contagion of existing arrears problems. The World Bank is in the
unique situation that it can respond very quickly because it was able to
avoid suspension during the crisis. Under extremely difficult
circumstances, the projects have continued to operate, already addressing
some of the most urgent social needs.
4. Description
The EERC would finance imports that the country needs for its short-term
recovery program while at the same time supporting the government's
reconstruction program. The counterpart funds of the credit would provide
important budgetary funds to enable Government to implement its priority
spending program. The EERC would provide complementary funding for those
activities that cannot be financed through the existing Bank portfolio or
through planned, new lending. This would for example apply to
Government's new and extensive public works scheme to create short-term
employment or to the waiver of fees for primary schools.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $0.00
IBRD
IDA $40.00
Total Project Cost $40.00
6. Implementation
-2-



The overall management and coordination of the EERC would be entrusted to
a project implementation unit (PIU) set-up within the Ministry of Economy
and Plan (MOEP). The PIU would be a lightweight structure including a
national Coordinator, an accountant and procurement specialist who has
been selected on a competitive basis, in conformity with the Bank/IDA
procurement procedures.
7. Sustainability
The project would provide short-term liquidity to the Government to assist
in the financing of a priority recovery program that would otherwise go
under-funded. It is expected that the budget planning exercise that is
now under way for 2003 would return the country to a more stable
environment in which budget gaps could be identified and mitigated in a
timely fashion.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
In designing this Emergency Credit, the team drew from experience of other
post-conflict countries, particularly in Africa. For a general overview
see Michailof, Serge, Kostner, Markus and Devictor, Xavier; "Post-Conflict
Recovery in Africa. An Agenda for the Africa Region, Africa Region Working
Paper Series, Number 30, April 2002. The team reviewed in particular the
Comoros Emergency Economic Recovery Credit (August 2001), the Burundi
Economic Recovery Credit (March 2000), the Rwanda Emergency
Reintegration and Recovery Credit (October 1997), and OED-review of the
Haiti Emergency Recovery Credit (Review: May 1997; Credit: May 1995). From
these sources the following key lessons were incorporated in the
formulation of this credit: (i) Early engagement is key to success. While
there are risks associated with timely emergency operations, potential
rewards would be higher, too. The EERC would therefore aim at supporting
economic recovery already in 2002; (ii) Emergency post-conflict assistance
should have a simple streamlined design. In the aftermath of crisis,
liquidity needs to be injected rapidly to mitigate social and economic
crisis. Complicated implementation arrangements would overburden an
already weak administration and slow down the transfer of resources. The
EERC therefore only contains a quick-disbursing component; and (iii)
Emergency operations should complement other Bank and donor post-crisis
assistance. The EERC effectively complements the suggested portfolio
restructuring, which takes into account more complex investment needs
after the crisis (for example second Private Sector Development and
Microfinance projects) and new lending (Rural transport and mining).
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  None; the project is classified as "C"
10. Contact Point:
Task Team Leaders
Susanne Holste
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: +261-20-2256000
Fax:  261-20-223338
-3-



Wolfgang Fengler
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C 20433
Telephone: 202-458-0538
Fax: 202-473-8179
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
October 11, 2002.
-4-



