Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3716 MAG
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Emergency Economic Recovery Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated November 15, 2002 
 
Page  2
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 3716 MAG 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 15, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF 
MADAGASCAR (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has transmitted to the Association a letter of 
economic and social recovery policy, dated October 17, 2002, giving details of an 
emergency recovery program as more fully described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
(hereinafter referred to as the Program), and declaring 
the Borrower’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program; 
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
“FMG” means Malagasy Franc, the Borrower’s currency. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-eight million Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 38,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of  the Project, prior to furnishing 
to the Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, open and 
maintain thereafter a deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be 
deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
Page  4
-
3
-
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15, commencing April 15, 2013 and ending October 15, 2042. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on October 15, 2022 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
Page  5
-
4
-
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, 
technical, administrative and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall 
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Particular Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program. 
Section 4.02.  Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:   
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;  
(b)     furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four (4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)   furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is  specified, namely, that an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof shall 
be carried out. 
ARTICLE VI 
Termination 
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget 
 B.P. 
61 
 Antananarivo 
101 
 Madagascar 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
   Facsimile: 
 
MFB 
    (261) 
20 
22 
34530 
 Antananarivo 
 
For the Association: 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
  248423 
(MCI) 
or (202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written.  
 
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR 
 
By /s/ Zina Andrianarivelo Razafy 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Callisto Madavo  
Regional Vice President 
Africa 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Eligible 
imports 
 
 
38,000,000
 
100%
of 
foreign 
 required 
for 
the 
    
 expenditures 
 
 
Project as specified  
 
In the Annex to this  
 Schedule 
1 
 
_________ 
 TOTAL 
38,000,000
 
========  
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, 
the term “foreign expenditures” means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  
 
(a) 
 payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of  
SDR 7,600,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after July 15, 2002; 
(b)  
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than 
$20,000 equivalent; 
(c)  
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association shall have 
Page  10
-
9
-
financed or agreed to finance or which the Association has financed or agreed to finance 
under another Credit; 
(d) 
except with the prior approval by the Association, expenditures in excess 
of an aggregate amount equivalent to fifty percent (50%) of the amount of the Credit for 
any class of eligible imports specified in the Annex to this Schedule; 
(e) 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purposes, 
luxury consumption and used goods; 
(f) 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods), the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;  
 (g) 
expenditures: (i) in the territories of any country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories, or (ii) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
(h) 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association 
determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Association to remedy the situation. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods under contracts costing 
less than $2,000,000 equivalent each, under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  11
-
10 - 
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1 
Classes of Eligible Imports to be Financed Under the Credit 
1. 
Construction materials such as cement and raw materials 
2. 
Medical supplies and pharmaceuticals 
3. 
Commodities such as petroleum, fuel products and metals 
4. 
Agricultural fertilizers and inputs, other than pesticides 
5. Transport 
machinery 
 
Page  12
-
11 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to contribute to a recovery program designed to 
achieve macroeconomic stability, rebuild physical assets, and restore economic and social 
activities, following the social and political crisis which pre
vailed in the Borrower’s 
territory in the aftermath of disputed presidential elections in December 2001, through 
financing of a positive list of imports identified as necessary to the implementation of the 
program. 
The Project consists of the financing of emergency imports as specified in the 
Annex to Schedule 1 to this Agreement, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2003. 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines), and the following provisions of  Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Schedule, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.63 and 2.64 of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.  
2. 
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Commodities
Commonly traded commodities may be procured through organized international 
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.65 of the Guidelines. 
2. International 
Shopping
Goods (other than commodities referred to under paragraph 1 of this Part) 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
Page  14
-
13 - 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. Private 
Sector
Goods imported by the private sector (other than commodities referred to under 
paragraph 1 of this Part) may be procured in accordance with established commercial 
practices satisfactory to the Association.  
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$2,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
2. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
