                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 31668

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                                (IF-N0070)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 26 MILLION

                                      TO THE GOVERNMENT OF

                                            BURKINA FASO

                           FOR A POST PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT




                                              January, 2005




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective APRIL 1996)

                  Currency Unit = FCFA
                        FCFA 1 = US$ 1
                         US$ 1 = SDR 0.692

                        FISCAL YEAR
                     January    December

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



                 Vice President:   Gobin T. Nankani
              Country Director     A. David Craig
               Sector Manager      Alexandre Abrantes
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Pierre Joseph Kamano

                                       BURKINA FASO
                                   Post-Primary Education


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    3
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   3
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         4
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Enrollment Progress                                                     31

Project ID: P000304                                                  Project Name: Post-Primary Education
Team Leader: Pierre Joseph Kamano                                    TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: February 28, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Post-Primary Education                                   L/C/TF Number: IF-N0070
   Country/Department: BURKINA FASO                                                       Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Secondary education (73%); Tertiary education (17%); Central
                            government administration (10%)
                  Theme: Gender (P); Education for all (P); Access to urban services and
                            housing (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/19/1993                                     Effective: 06/01/1997                10/16/1997
     Appraisal: 07/01/1996                                         MTR: 01/20/2000                  01/29/2000
      Approval: 12/24/1996                                      Closing: 04/30/2002                 04/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF BURKINA FASO/MESSRS
                      Other Partners:      N/A

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobin T. Nankani                               Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               A. David Craig                                 Serge Michailof
Sector Director:                Alexandre V. Abrantes                          Helena Ribe
Team Leader at ICR:             Pierre Joseph Kamano                           Makha N'Dao
ICR Primary Author:             Pierre Joseph Kamano


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Background:
In September 1994, the Government of Burkina Faso held a National Convention on post-primary
education to analyze the status of the sub-sector and to define a strategy for its development. In August

1995, following the national convention, the Government initiated a ten-year post-primary education
development plan (Plan de Devéloppement de l'Enseignement Post-Primaire -- PDEPP) to address the
shortcomings the sub-sector was already facing in terms of its capacity to achieve its education objectives.
Donors were mainly targeting primary education, as IDA's education projects in Burkina Faso had done
since 1973. The ten-year plan, which articulated the strategic practices for the sub-sector, asserted that
development, economic growth, and social and cultural welfare depend on the educational system, which is
the key determining factor of human resource development.

Following a request from the Government, the Bank agreed to support the Plan with the Post-Primary
Education Project (PPEP), through:      (a) the promotion of cost-effective and equitable use of public
education resources; and (b) an increase in access to, and the quality of, education. The development credit
agreement (DCA) was signed in December 1996 and became effective in October 1997.

The Project supported the implementation of the Government's Post-Primary Education Strategy (PPES).
The Development Objective (DO) of the PEPP was to have more and better-trained students graduating
from secondary school at reduced subsidy costs, with increased equality between gender and income levels.
Progress in achieving the DO was to be evaluated on the basis of the following indicators: (a) increase the
proportion of primary school graduates who continued on to lower secondary education from 27% to 30%;
(b) decrease in repetition rate from 25% to 20%; (c) reduction in total student social subsidies in higher
and secondary education from FCFA 4.8 billion to FCFA 2.2 billion; (d) increase in the proportion of girls
enrolled in secondary school from 35% to 40%; and (e) enrollment of 8,000 additional students in the ten
provinces with the highest incidence of poverty and lowest coverage.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project supports the implementation of the Government's Post-Primary Education Strategy (PPES).
It aims to have more and better-trained students graduate from secondary schools at reduced subsidy
costs, with increased equality between genders and income levels.

3.3 Original Components:
The Project consisted of three components divided into seven sub-components:

A- ACCESS TO LOWER-SECONDARY EDUCATION; US$19,500,000.00:
This component supported the Government objectives of:          i) increasing the enrollment rate in lower
secondary education by 42% by 2002 (from 7.2% to 10.2%); ii) improving equal access to education
through the enrolment of 8,000 new students in the ten provinces with the lowest enrolment rate; iii)
supporting the development of private schools' capacity to enroll 40% of students in the lower secondary
education; and iv) increasing the proportion of girls in total enrollment from 32% to 40% by 2002. This
component included the following three sub-components:

1- Increase enrollment outside Ouagadougou and Bobo Dioulasso, through the construction and
equipment of 50 general education secondary schools (Collèges d'enseignement general ­ CEG), each
comprising four classrooms, in provinces outside the major cities. The ten least-covered provinces were to
benefit from 86% of the sub-component budget. Local communities were to be involved both in the
construction and the operation of the schools. The Project was to fund the construction of classrooms and
administrative blocks, and communities were to build a house for each school director, with government
support through the allocation of imported building materials and technical assistance.

2. Increase access in three provinces with limited coverage, through the construction and equipping of one
CEG in each of three provinces with low coverage, to be managed by local non-governmental organizations



                                                    - 2 -

(NGOs) and other non-profit local organizations. The Government would construct and equip the CEG,
and local organizations would manage it with no recurrent costs for the Government. This sub-component
was designed based on the conclusions of a feasibility study conducted during project preparation, and
represented the first experience in francophone African countries with IDA financing for the delivery of
education services by NGOs.

3. Increase enrolment in private schools, through: (i) construction and equipment of ten CEGs, to be
managed by private contractors, and (ii) construction of 80 classrooms in existing private schools through a
matching scheme in which the schools were to self finance an additional 80 classrooms. Rather than
focusing on rural areas, this sub-component focused on major urban centers where families were allocating
on average more resources to the education of their children. This was the first time in French speaking
Africa in which IDA assisted a Government in the construction and equipment of schools to be managed
and paid for by private operators.

B-QUALITY OF POST-PRIMARY EDUCATION; US$13,800,000.00:
This component supported the implementation of reforms to improve the quality and efficiency of
education. It aimed to: (i) reform pre- and in-service training to improve the effectiveness of secondary
school teachers as well as newly recruited teachers; (ii) reform school curricula and existing programs, and
(iii) provide textbooks and teaching materials for teachers and for students. This component included the
following sub-components:

1 ­ Reform and improve pre and in-service training of secondary school teachers: The teacher training
reforms sought to improve both pre-and in-service teacher-training programs. The aim of the pre-service
sub-component was to introduce more teaching practice to pre-service training, which has been mainly
theoretical, and to enhance interaction between trainees and teachers using common sessions, study groups,
and class visits by inspectors. The year-long pre-service training program was to be implemented over a
30-week period, divided into three terms of 180 hours of training, of which 60 hours (1/3) would be
assigned for teaching practice under the supervision of staff from the teacher training college.

The in-service training activities provided support to teachers, school directors, and supervision staff
(pedagogical advisors and inspectors) for both private and public school teachers through a strategy with
three closely linked approaches.     First, a 20-day training module was provided to secondary school
directors on designing, planning, conducting, and evaluating training sessions of one-half a day for their
teachers. Second, the directors were then to conduct a training session for their teachers on a weekly basis.
Finally, supervisors and inspectors assisted directors and teachers in a collaborative way to improve their
effectiveness in classroom.     This approach drew on an experience successfully piloted by French
Cooperation, which then needed to be expanded. Inspectors and pedagogical advisors were to initiate and
conduct a six-day annual training session per subject following visits to schools and teachers. It was
expected that all 3,500 public and private school teachers would benefit from these training sessions,
allowing them to improve their teaching practices and students' performance. Based upon their identified
needs following these training sessions, teachers were assigned to study groups ­ called pedagogical
animation groups (Groupe d'animation pedagogique ­ GAP) ­ which were to use the mid-week one-half
day holiday to organize pedagogical improvement activities.

2. Improve the availability of textbooks and teaching materials, through the purchase of about 32 titles
representing around one million textbooks for lower secondary school students, to ensure a ratio of one
book per student in the main subjects. In addition, the sub-component financed 10,000 teacher guides,
30,000 university library books, and the construction of a university library at Bobo-Dioulasso.
Guidebooks were provided to teachers free of cost, while textbooks were rented to students at FCFA 500


                                                    - 3 -

per book per year. Private schools offered textbooks at a full cost. To ensure the sustainability of textbook
availability, a Textbook Fund (TF) was created with FCFA 30 million annually funded by the Government,
together with the rental funds.

3 ­ Improve existing educational program, through the implementation of the recommendations from
studies on two major reforms identified by the Ministry of Post Primary Education, which included
promoting evaluation and learning assessment of students, and ii) curriculum reform. The Project sought
to improve evaluation and learning assessment through support to the secondary examination and testing
office (Office Central des Examens et Concours Scolaire ­ OCECOS), including building a new
headquarters and piloting a new approach to evaluation and student assessment for lower secondary
students in French, Mathematics and Social sciences. Students' evaluation results would be used to assess
the performance of schools and to identify better-targeted priorities for in-service teacher training.
Curriculum reforms were to be conducted through two studies and be achieved through the implementation
of the recommendations. The first study aimed at reforming the secondary school curricula. The second
focused on access to and the quality of vocational education.

C- INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING OF MESSRS; US$3,300,000.00:
This component sought to strengthen the MESSRS (Ministère des Enseignements Secondaire, Supérieur
et de la Recherche) planning and management capacities at the regional and central level through the
support for: i) education planning; ii) financial and personnel management, and iii) coordination of
education projects. The Project financed training sessions and the construction of three regional offices of
secondary education (Direction Regional d'Enseignement Secondaire). Its design drew on the Education
IV Project experience, and on the recommendations included in the MESSRS's audit, which was conducted
by the Ministry of Public Administration in July 1995. Its focus was on improving the MESSRS's
capacity to manage efficiently limited educational resources and to reach the PDEPP objectives.


3.4 Revised Components:
Component; Cost; Rating
ACCESS TO LOWER-SECONDARY EDUCATION;                      $19,500,000.00;  S
QUALITY OF POST-PRIMARY EDUCATION;                 $13,800,000.00;   S
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING OF MESSRS;                    $3,300,000.00;  U
The Project components and subcomponents remained unchanged

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Overall Quality at entry was satisfactory. The DO was clear, realistic, relevant and consistent with
the Government's long-term objectives as defined in the PDEPP, the Public Expenditure Review (PER), the
poverty survey and the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of June 1996, which emphasized promoting
poverty reduction through increased economic growth and support for human resources development.

The Project was well grounded on the country and the sector context. Thorough analysis was conducted of
the social, economic and institutional aspects, and implications of the Project. The project appraisal
document (PAD) provided a detailed description of the Project's expected medium- and long-term benefits,
stressing the positive links between improvements in the quality of secondary education, as well as
improving secondary education for girls, in rural and poorly covered areas, and poverty reduction. The
Project drew on prior IDA experience and lessons learned in the education sector in Burkina Faso since
1973.

Moreover, a well-structured set of indicators was included to measure progress and evaluate achievement



                                                      - 4 -

of the DO. The relationship between the project DO and indicators was well defined both in terms of
outcomes, output, and input targets. An action plan for the first two years of implementation was prepared
well in advance to allow for prompt implementation once the project became effective.

The Project took an innovative approach to education issues based on the context and experiences in
other regions, particularly those in Latin America. The Project piloted a public-private partnership to
address the high recurrent costs of secondary education the Government faced. The approach included the
private sector, municipalities and NGOs in supporting post-primary education management in order to
reduce Government's recurrent costs and to allow for a more efficient use of educational public spending.
This partnership built on the past and current context in which the private sector had already been involved
in post-primary education, particularly in the two majors cities.

The Project has a good risk assessment. The PAD effectively integrated risks, difficulties, and options to
be considered during implementation, particularly those related to grant and subsidy reduction, which
demanded constant attention of all stakeholders. The Government could not anticipate the social unrest that
would be fostered as a result of other political tensions that arose in 1999 and 2000, following the murder
of a prominent journalist. These tensions caused delays in the implementation of project activities.

A good partnership with other donors supported the implementation of the government strategy contained
in the PDEPP, which was the action framework for all donors in the sub-sector. Thus, complementarity
and integration with other donors' interventions was sought during project preparation, particularly from
the French Cooperation and the African Development Bank (AfDB), and was maintained during project
implementation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall achievement of the DO and outcome of the PEPP was satisfactory. The PEPP contributed to
increasing the number of students graduating from secondary schools at reduced subsidy costs, with
increasing equality in terms of gender and income level. Thus, the Project contributed to develop of human
capital, which had a significant impact on poverty reduction. While one key quality indicator was not
achieved, in part due to factors outside the control of the Ministry, the project strengthened teacher training,
introduced important institutional innovations in service delivery, and introduced reforms that significantly
increased the percentage of the government budget allocated for instructional expenditure. Studies on
schooling, wages, and poverty in Burkina have shown that education; particularly secondary education
improves significantly earnings. Specifically the outcomes are the following:

a) The Project contributed substantially to increasing access to secondary education and to reducing
gender, regional, and gender inequalities (see annex 7), through construction of new schools, particularly in
low coverage areas, and reduction of school fees. The proportion of primary school graduates continuing to
lower secondary education increased from 27% to 42% between 1997 and 2003, surpassing the initial
project target of 30%. The public-private partnership increased access and reduced the cost of secondary
education for families. Construction of CEGs in areas with limited coverage brought school facilities
closer to families, increasing access and reducing some of the direct costs. The involvement of NGOs and
municipalities in school management further helped reduce the school fees, allowing more students to
access secondary school.

b) Although all planned activities for the improvement of quality were implemented, the quality component
indicator established during project design was not achieved. The repetition rate, instead of decreasing,



                                                     - 5 -

rose from 25% to 31% by the end of the Project (as opposed to the target of 20%). Two mitigating factors
explain this in part. First, the social unrest during the two consecutive school years of 1999/2000 and
2000/2001 had a negative impact on students' achievement. During these two years, teachers did not
complete their programs, which ultimately contributed to a deteriorating secondary school repetition rate.
These troubles also contributed to delays in project implementation, particularly with regard to student
assessment and the planned studies on curriculum reform. Second, the surge in enrollment in lower
secondary was faster and larger than expected by the MESSRS, and consequently reduced its capacity to
effectively and appropriately improve the component indicators.

The gains in access, together with the improvement in education system management compensated for the
shortcomings regarding repetition and dropout rates. Despite an increase in the repetition rate, the Project
contributed significantly to an improvement in teachers' capacity through an innovative professional
development approach. This approach was comprehensive and systemic, and targeted at teachers in
classrooms and their direct support and supervisors (headmasters, pedagogic advisors, and inspectors).
Other indicators that could measure quality improvements, such as student assessments were not
adequately integrated into project design. The project financed the development of achievement tests in
fundamental subjects (Mathematics, French, Biology, History and Geography), which could have served as
indicators of quality improvements, but the follow up tests were not completed prior to project closure.

c) Total student social subsidies in higher and secondary education, which had represented nearly half of
the Ministry budget, were reduced from FCFA 4.8 billion to FCFA 1.5 billion between 1995 and 2003
(exceeding the target of FCFA a 2.2 billion reduction). Although the Government was confronted with
social disruptions during project implementation, the measures (e.g. students' fees at the University, student
grants, etc.) were implemented by 2002. The restaurants at the Universities of Ouagadougou and Bobo
Dioulasso were transferred to private management, and the number of students' grants was drastically
reduced (from 3,407 to 500 students). These measures allowed the MESSRS to reduce significantly social
expenditures, and to allocate more resources to instructional expenditure (from 15.9% of the secondary
education budget in 1998 to 30.5% in 2003). This reallocation of financial resources had a positive impact
on budget allocation and education expenditure use and management, which resulted in reduced
instructional costs.

d) The proportion of girls enrolled in secondary school rose from 35% to 40.2%, achieving the target
outcome of 40%. The Project's focus on increasing girls' enrollment particularly in low coverage areas
proved to be successful. Out of 194,705 new students registered in lower secondary, 78,855 were girls. Of
these new female students, 7,821 were from the ten provinces with the lowest enrollment rate, accounting
for 31.6% of students enrolled in these ten provinces. The construction of school facilities and the
reduction of school fees from FCFA 60,000 to FCFA 27,500 per year had a positive impact in encouraging
families to allow their daughters to continue to secondary education.

e) The number of additional students enrolled between 1995 and 2003 in the ten provinces with the highest
incidence of poverty and lowest coverage rose by 85%, from 13,353 to 24,738 (i.e. 11,385 new students
compared to the project target of 8,000). New school construction in the designated areas and the reduction
of school fees, both contributed to enrollment increases.

4.2 Outputs by components:




                                                     - 6 -

Overall, outputs of the Project are satisfactory. Five of the Project's seven sub-components reached or
surpassed the targeted objectives. The sub-component aimed at improving existing teaching and learning
programs was successful in carrying out studies, but did not implement the recommendations contained in
these studies. The sub-component geared at capacity building of MESSRS implemented its planned
activities. Although the decentralized operational units were strengthened, the central units of planning and
budgeting were not able in a timely manner to collect and analyze data to inform the decision-making
process and monitor indicators.

A- ACCESS TO LOWER-SECONDARY EDUCATION (US$19.5 million):
1- Increase enrolment outside Ouagadougou and Bobo Dioulasso:                         The overall output of this
sub-component was satisfactory, with all its expected targets achieved during project implementation. Fifty
public CEGs A public school facility is comprised of a group of 4 classrooms with a staff room and a storage room, an
administrative section, a 3-room house to accommodate the headmaster, and two distinct groups of latrines (one two-sided
section for students and one for teachers). were built and equipped in low coverage areas outside of Ouagadougou
and Bobo Dioulasso, and are currently operating. It was initially agreed that the communities, with the
support of the national counterpart funds, would build one teacher house for each CEG.                           While
communities provided the necessary building materials for these houses, the imported materials (cement,
iron, etc.) were not always available, which resulted in less teacher houses than planned. The central
ministry's supervision of construction was inadequate, resulting in shortcomings in construction quality,
and no clear arrangements were made for maintenance of these new schools.

2. Increase access in three provinces with limited coverage: The overall output of this sub-component
was satisfactory. Despite changes, three secondary schools were built in three provinces with limited
coverage by the project unit, and managed and operated through contracts by local NGOs. One of the three
NGOs initially selected (Women and Development) continues to manage its school, while the two other
dropped their contracts with the MESSRS due to difficulties in management. These two schools were
transferred to municipalities through a decentralized management scheme in which the Ministry provided
the municipality with salaries for three teachers, and the municipality covered all the recurrent costs. These
schools were built by private entrepreneurs and supervised by NGOs, and their construction quality is
better than public schools. The quality of instruction also appears to be higher than in schools run by the
central ministry.

3. Increase enrolment in private schools: The overall output of this sub-component was satisfactory.
This sub-component had two programs: i) the construction of ten schools to be operated and paid for by
private operators and self-financed municipalities, and ii) the construction of 80 additional classrooms in
existing private schools under a matching scheme: for each classroom constructed and equipped by the
private operator in its premises according to government standard, the Project built and equipped an
additional classroom. This component allowed the Ministry to increase the number of students enrolled in
lower secondary education in private schools by 85% between 1996 and 2003. The proportion of girls
enrolled in private schools more than doubled during the same period, to 33,719 in total.
The first program constructed ten schools as planned, out of which seven are run by private operators, and
three by municipalities. Each school has the same facilities as those built by NGOs. These ten schools
have been operating under a contract between the Ministry of secondary education and operators for the
last two years. This approach is innovative and needs to be supported to create the best conditions for
sustainability. Initially the loan grace period was for two years and the payback period for five years.
Private operators have asked for an extension of the grace period to five years, but no decision has yet been
made.     Although the payback mechanisms have been identified, responsibilities with regard to the
management of these funds as well as their future use are still to be clarified. Fees at private schools vary
from FCFA 35,000 to FCFA 60,000 per year (compared to FCFA 5,000 in public schools); in major cities



                                                           - 7 -

where the demand is higher and parents are better off, school fees are higher, whereas in small cities school
fees are less, but still higher than in public schools. To support equity in these areas, the MESSRS
provides scholarships for 400 students from poor families, under an agreement with private and parochial
schools, where families pay FCFA 17,500 per year for each student and the ministry pays FCFA 27,500.

This innovative approach in developing private secondary schools is the first such experience in
Sub-Saharan francophone Africa. It allows government withdrawal from daily education management and
an effective decentralization of secondary education.

Under the second program, out of 160 classrooms, 108 were constructed in existing private schools by the
Project-54 financed by the project and 54 by 15 private operators. These 108 new private classrooms
enrolled an additional 3,780 students in lower secondary school in 2003-2004. The matching scheme
approach adopted in this program proved more difficult to implement than the approach adopted by the
first program. The criteria for selecting private operators to receive complementary classrooms included a
proof of capacity to complete the classrooms on time. Despite the large number of applicants, the number
of contractors who were able to fulfill the criteria was not sufficient to construct the number of classrooms
initially planned. In addition, there were not enough schools with space in which to build additional
classrooms, or sometimes it was not relevant to build classrooms because of the demand was saturated.

B-QUALITY OF POST-PRIMARY EDUCATION; US$13,800,000.00:
1 ­ Reforming and improving pre and in-service training of secondary school teachers: output of this
sub-component was satisfactory.        Secondary school teachers' pre-service training was reformed by
introducing a 30-week training program composed of two-thirds subject matter and one-third practice in a
school setting under supervision.      The practice enhanced contact between in-service and pre-service
teachers who became familiar with classroom situations, while introducing new pedagogical practice from
student teachers. As evidenced during the field trip and from discussions with teachers and inspectors, the
approach complemented efficiently both pre-service and in-service teacher training activities, by bridging
relationships among student-teachers, teachers, headmasters, and the supervision team, who learned about
teaching difficulties during their class visits and discussions with teachers/teachers group meetings.

The sub-component financed in-service training for more than 2,200 teachers in all subjects, 90 pedagogic
advisors, and more than 440 headmasters. Participants worked together in assessing teaching practices,
evaluating students' learning, developing pedagogical projects in a teachers network (GAP), implementing
projects and assessing their impact. As a result of these interventions, participants built their capacity to
identify collaboratively and solve problems affecting teaching and learning.            Inspectors and school
directors were trained to facilitate teachers' work and networking, instead of imposing solutions. This
approach has helped make the classroom a locus of change using a bottom-up matrix. Teachers and their
local colleagues work together to identify and to address their problems. This approach has led to a sense
of ownership and confidence among teachers who are continually searching for homegrown solutions.
Many teachers have changed their attitude, and inspectors, directors and others supervisors are working
more effectively and efficiently in a supportive manner with teachers to solve teaching and learning
problems. The dialogue fostered between teachers and school directors and inspectors has contributed to a
large extent to the success of this component, and to the improvement of secondary education teaching
quality.

2. Improving the availability of textbooks and teaching materials:               The overall output of this
sub-component was satisfactory. The Project achieved or surpassed its anticipated targets. In total,
1,766,000 textbooks were bought and distributed to schools: 1 million in 2000, and an additional 712,000
in 2003, which raised the student-textbook ratio to 1/1 in Math, Sciences, French, and Social Science. The


                                                       - 8 -

Project also financed the acquisition of 10,000 teacher's guides, 444 pedagogic kits for teachers and
students, 50,508 library books for university libraries, and the construction of Bobo Dioulasso University's
library. The Project provided textbooks for public and private schools as well, with private schools paying
at cost. The Project contributed to establish a rolling textbooks fund (TF), which at the end of the Project
had FCFA 500 million in its account. This fund is constituted partly from the MESSRS, which provides
each year FCFA 30 million, and funds from textbook rental to public students at FCFA 500 per book per
year (US$1) and from textbooks sold to private schools. The purpose of the Textbook Funds is to ensure
that damaged and lost textbooks will be replaced and that new textbooks will be purchased as needed with
the increase in enrollment. Due to the stock created by the Centre National des Manuels et Fournitures
Scolaires (CENAMAFS), which is managing the textbooks component, the 1:1 ratio of student/textbook
remained the same, despite the increase in enrollment and deterioration of textbooks.

The construction of Bobo-Dioulasso University Library experienced implementation delays but was
completed by the end of the Project. It is not yet operational however. The personnel of the library expect
that it will be opened to students during the school year 2004-2005. During the ICR Team's site visit, the
8,000 books acquired by the Project were not entirely catalogued and the facilities seemed to be in need of
some minor maintenance.

3 ­ Improving existing educational programs: The output of this sub-component was modest. The
initially planned studies were all completed, but their recommendations have not yet been implemented. The
sub-component may have a limited impact unless the ministry gives greater priority to following up
recommendations. Activities conducted through this component included two main areas: evaluation and
students' learning assessment, and curriculum reform.

The Project carried out a pilot students' assessment to help the Ministry of Secondary Education allocate
more efficiently resources to improve the quality of education. The objectives of the pilot testing were to
develop a pedagogical approach to students' learning evaluation based on planned curriculum reforms and
to train stakeholders in this new approach. The testing office (OCECOS) conducted tests in Mathematics,
French, Natural Sciences, History and Geography for lower secondary school students. Teams were
organized and benefited from international technical assistance to design, plan, implement, and analyze the
entire assessment process. Teachers and inspectors were trained to construct test items and to conduct
testing. The teams developed a database of more than 1,000 testing items in each of the five subject
matters, based on an in-depth study of the lower secondary school curriculum. The testing was conducted
on a sample of students from the capital and its surroundings, using strata drawn on criteria from school
characteristics, which include students' performance at end-of-year exams.
The new approach was to be broader and more accurate than the traditional examination system. Testing
items covered a larger scope of competencies and subject content to encourage teachers to cover the entire
curriculum, instead of focusing on some key aspects. The report produced by the testing team analyzed
student achievement, and areas where teachers and students were experiencing teaching and learning
problems. The report also compared achievement of the same students on the new test and on the
end-of-year exam, to assess the accuracy of the items. A key shortcoming was that the assessment of
student learning outcomes was conducted only once in lower secondary schools, and not in all the regions,
and as such, it did not produce information on two consecutive years to allow the measurement of progress,
and it did not reveal variations across regions. The Project closed at the pilot stage, and OCECOS did not
have sufficient resources to continue the testing, particularly as there was no ministerial decision to
implement the new evaluation approach.

On the curriculum reform side, the Project carried out two major studies. One study focused on curriculum
reform in general secondary school, and a second on technical and vocational training.          These two


                                                      - 9 -

above-mentioned reports were completed and validated with international technical assistance, which
undertook studies in close collaboration with staff from the Ministry of secondary education. Due to social
disturbance in the country and the length of the two studies, the Ministry has yet to implement suggestions
and recommendations derived from the studies.

C- INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING OF MESSRS; US$3,300,000.00:
The overall output of this component was substantial, but with significant variations among activities.
The project achieved nearly all the originally planned component outputs, both in terms of reforms and
capacity building. This component supported key reforms and capacity building activities at the central and
the decentralized levels. The reforms included the privatization of social sectors of the university
(restaurants, health insurance system, and increasing university fees), the implementation of a cost recovery
policy on secondary education, the continued reduction in social subsidies, the promotion of girls'
education, capacity building activities focused on the improvement of the Ministry's financial management
and data collection and planning capacity. In spite of a strong social opposition to the reforms at the
Universities and at secondary school, the Government successfully implemented the privatization measures
and doubled students' fees at the Universities while reducing social subsidies at secondary education. The
Project implemented all planned activities related to financial management and planning, but planning and
managerial capacities of central operational units remained weak.

The Project trained the personnel from the Direction des Etudes et de la Planification (DEP) (40 people in
total both from central and regional levels) and equipped them with the necessary means and appropriate
software to carry out the required task.      The Project also trained 50 administrative staff from the
decentralized levels and 900 school supervisors and school headmasters in statistics, data collection and
analysis. The training sessions should have enabled a timely production of tools and information to guide
the decision-making process. The frequent change in staff appointments, particularly at the DEP, whose
director changed twice during project implementation, affected the outputs of the component. Frequent
reinvestment was needed to train newly directors and staff, who still did not produce the required
information for system management and indicators monitoring on time.

The Project had planned to provide training to build the capacity of financial and administrative staff, and
to improve budget preparation and supervision at the central and decentralized levels. The Project trained
50 staff from DAF and 300 school directors in financial management as well as newly appointed regional
accounting clerks (intendants regionaux) in management. It contributed also to the construction of three
Regional Directorates of secondary education in three provinces (Koudougou, Ouahigouya and Bobo
Dioulasso), thus permitting these three pools of supervisors to be closer to teachers, whereas they had been
all located in Ouagadougou.

This component's implementation was affected by the timely availability of data to regularly monitor
indicators and report on progress, and related-budget preparation is still performed as usual at the central
level. Staff management, budget preparation and control, scholarship allocation and monitoring, and social
subsidies reduction are still not computerized. These different issues, which were recurrent throughout
project implementation, negatively impacted the management of the sub-sector.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic rate of return calculated indicates a net benefit of US$7.5 million, a Net present value of
US$3.6 million and an IRR of 36% which shows that at least the investments made in expanding access
and improving quality were very profitable when considering the direct social benefits.

4.4 Financial rate of return:



                                                    - 10 -

N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact directly attributed to the Project was substantial. The project made
significant contributions to promoting key policy reforms and to introducing institutional innovations in
secondary education service delivery, despite having modest impact on the organizational performance of
the central ministry. The Ministry was confronted with unparalleled challenges of a huge increase in lower
secondary enrollment during the short term of project implementation period. In spite of some
shortcomings, the Ministry has sought to improve the delivery of education services and its effectiveness in
the management of scarce financial and human resources.

The Project's contribution to developing the institutional capacity was greater in the regions and provinces.
Along with the construction and equipment of three premises in regions, inspectors were trained to develop
outreach activities aimed at teachers and school heads (principles). The Project contributed also to the
operation of offices through the provision of computers and cars, which improved the workflow, and the
circulation of information within the Ministry and between the Ministry and regions. All of this contributed
to strengthening the capacity of the overall units and the effectiveness of the decentralized units in regions.
But, decision-making and day-to-day management of education services must be further decentralized to
obtain the full benefit of this new institutional capacity.

At the central level, some of the operational services were directly responsible for implementing the
Project's activities or benefited directly from the Project in terms of institutional reform. Overall, their
institutional capacity increased during the Project.       Their staff benefited from training, international
technical assistance, and equipment. For instance, the testing central office was adequately reinforced with
equipment, training and technical assistance. Its effectiveness was established as demonstrated by the
production of items for the new testing method, the administration of the experimental testing and the
analysis undertaken by the unit.

The central ministry relies on few key staffs that have the ability and motivation to lead operational
services. A change in leadership often jeopardizes previous achievements, as the case of DEP. The fact
that staff changed often would not allow for a continuous improvement, in spite of the training.

The Ministry of secondary education developed successfully a partnership with the private sector to
address some of the problems the sub-sector was facing. The new partnership built between public and
private is an important institutional achievement of the Ministry in its quest for new solutions to address the
development of secondary education, and in terms of access and quality as well.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
During the school years of 1999-2000 and 2000-2001, the country, and in particular, the big cities were
subject to social troubles, which affected the delivery of education services. In addition to internal social
disturbances, the crisis in Cote d'Ivoire and its impact on price of raw materials delayed construction.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:




                                                      - 11 -

Overall, the Government demonstrated its commitment to the implementation of PEPP and to the
objectives. For instance, during project implementation, the Government successfully mobilized agreed
counterpart funds, which contributed significantly to the implementation process. In spite of the social
disruption involving students, the Government successfully implemented the reduction of social subsides at
the universities.

However, some of the following factors subject to government control affected negatively the
implementation and the outcome of the Project.

- The Project experienced many changes in staffing within the Ministry, which slowed the pace of the
Project and impacted the outcomes. For instance, the planning unit director changed two times during the
project lifetime. These changes followed training of the staff on tools and procedures to be implemented,
which negatively affected, in turn, the timely availability of data and indicators for project monitoring.
- Delay in construction, particularly the regional directorate of secondary education (DRES), reduced the
outreach program deployed by inspectors who were mainly located in Ouagadougou. These delays were
mainly attributable to shortcomings in the Ministry's follow-up of construction.
- At the regional levels, steering committees were put in place, but did not function to support the project
activities at the regional level.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project implementation unit was designed as part of the Minister's cabinet, located within their
premises, using other staff from other operational services of the MESSRS. This created a situation where
staff was asked to perform tasks that they had not been assigned. Added to that was the inadequate space
allocated to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), which did not allow for a reliable organization of
documents and work. This led the Ministry to relocate the PIU to other rented premises. The PIU also
experienced some problems due to changes in staffing, and the long absence of the Project Coordinator due
to health problems.

There were implementation delays, particularly with regards to civil works. The agency that contracted the
construction of the (Centre Universitaire Public de Bobo Dioulasso-CUPB) library failed to achieve the
work in time, and the contract was terminated and renegotiated with a new contractor to get the library
done before the end of the Project. Delays in acquisitions were also observed with a long customs waiting
time. The Project eventually hired a "transitaire" (customs clearance agent) to get the processing done on
time.


5.4 Costs and financing:
The cost of the Project was estimated at US$36.6 million of which US$7.0 million was to be provided by
the Government; US$0.9 million by communities; US$2.7 million by the private sector, and US$26.0
million (equivalent to US$18.0 million) by IDA. The Project was implemented between October 1997 and
April 2004 with two extensions of one year each.               At completion, 98.61% of the IDA funds
(US$24,182,778.28 out of US$24,526,398.24 allocated due to rate fluctuation) were disbursed. The
remaining credit amounts for US$343,619.96. The Government contributed US$5.2 million (equivalent to
FCFA 2.6 billion). Communities contributed materials, labor, and cash that were not recorded by the
Project's accounting system, thus not assessed, as is the private sector contribution.

Two reallocations of credit were approved in January 2002 and March 2003 following the two extensions
of the project closing dates. Both reflect the need for additional funds for the civil works component, for
trainings, and for other operational costs. Additionally, an overdraft was approved on Category 4 in May



                                                     - 12 -

2004 after the project closing date. Although the initially planned costs for construction were exceeded, the
largest undisbursed amount at the end of the project is on the civil works component (US$311,258 out of
US$343,619). All of this has no impact on costs and financing of the Project.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project sustainability is rated as likely. The Project successfully piloted innovative approaches to
secondary education delivery, through the public-private partnership, which laid the foundation for a new
approach in the sector and for the Ministry's effectiveness as well. The Project addressed successfully the
issue of equity and gender in education demand by targeting provinces with the lowest enrollment rates,
reducing school fees, and by promoting girls' education. The implementation of these strategies, along with
the PDDEB in primary education, have increased enrollment in lower secondary education. Although the
outcomes of the pilot likely to be sustained, they need continued support because of the demand created by
the project, the increase in transition rate from primary to secondary, and rising primary enrollment. These
factors underscore the urgency of providing continued support to secondary education in order to maintain
the gains obtained during the Project.

The Ministry has developed successfully textbook funds, and a reserve of books to sustain the availability
of textbooks. Teachers and students are now aware of the importance of textbooks for learning and know
where to find them. Although indicators intended for measuring quality of education are not satisfactory,
the teacher-training program and the development of three regional pool of inspectorate in Koudougou,
Bobo Dioulasso and Ouahigouya, along with the new testing approach have built the foundation for further
quality enhancement. Public schools built in poor provinces and schools managed by municipalities and
NGOs are fully operational and adequately financed through government subsidies and low student fees.

The government commitment and its ability to mobilize resources directed at continuing to deliver
education services is crucial to sustainability. The Government has demonstrated its capacity to mobilize
counterpart funds and its commitment to the sub-sector by implementing highly controversial measures
aimed at cutting drastically students social subsides. Burkina is making efforts to improve its
macroeconomic situation, which is growing more than its population (an average of 3.2 % of economic
growth per year compared to 2.4 of population growth per year) and rural poverty rates are declining. The
government is, with the Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) and Highly Indebted Poor Countries
(HIPC) funds, increasing significantly spending in priority sectors, particularly in health and education.
All of these factors will impact on parents' decision to enroll their children. However, these gains are
fragile due to the uncertainty of environment-linked conditions (weather and crickets), which may rapidly
lead to drought with its impact on production and rural areas' revenue.

The Government has increased education expenditure by 15% annually from 1998 to 2003, which has
contributed to the growth of secondary education share from 15.9% to 30.5% of public expenditure
allocated to education. In nominal terms, the share of secondary education has tripled during the period
1998-2003, and the quality component is the main beneficiary of this increase (which has increased four
fold). It is expected that with the government commitment to social sectors in general, and the economic
growth of the country, the education sector and secondary education will benefit from a continuous increase
of public budget. The surge in basic education enrollment and the increase of the transition rate between
primary and secondary education place a significant burden on the capacity of the Government to finance
the development of the sub-sector, however which will need a support to strengthen the actual gains.

The Project piloted an innovative approach to financing of private secondary schools (through no-interest


                                                     - 13 -

loans to establish the schools), which addresses a fundamental bottleneck in Burkina Faso's education
system, due to a shortage of spaces in secondary schools. Data collected during the mission showed that
these schools were performing better than public sector counterparts on a variety of indicators. A key
challenge with the closure of the Project, however, is how or whether this approach can be sustained.
Although the payback mechanisms have been identified, responsibilities with regards to the management of
these funds as well as their future use still need to be clarified. In addition, the Ministry needs to clearly
assign the unit responsible for private sector to oversight the process, and strengthen its capacity.

Another risk is related to the absence of a maintenance plan for the new schools, which the Project did not
include. This will be needed soon in the light of the low quality of publicly managed school construction.
It is crucial that the Ministry put in place a maintenance plan and funding scheme for public schools in
order to have a lasting investment.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Since closing date, no transitional arrangement with the World Bank has been made yet. There is an urgent
need for follow-up support in the sub-sector, particularly with the huge increase in primary school
enrollment and in transitional rate between primary and secondary school. The significant increase in
enrollment at lower secondary highlights the urgent support required for the sub-sector in order to avoid
jeopardizing the substantial gains in all three components of the Project. "Bridging" financing may be
necessary for the private sector schools, until the first round of loans are repaid, and further dialogue is
needed with the Government regarding how to establish a sustainable institutional and financing framework
for the program. Discussions of a new CAS is underway and the country team is exploring ways of
addressing issues related to the entire sector, rather than focusing just on basic education. Strategies may
include: identifying appropriate lending instruments that will adequately support a sector wide approach; a
more decentralized focus on social services delivery such as CDD; and/or a budget support through the
PRSC.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
On the whole, the World Bank's performance in lending was satisfactory.

The Bank's performance in identification was satisfactory. The identification process occurred during the
preparation of the PDEPP (Report, 1995), which ensured alignment with government priorities. Also, as
noted in sections 3.1 and 3.5, identification and project's objectives were consistent with the CAS (June,
1996).

Bank's performance in preparation and appraisal was satisfactory.              The preparation process took
advantage of the national dialogue initiated during the preparation of the PDEPP. Many open discussions
were organized in the capital city and in other major cities to discuss with civil society organizations,
teachers associations, parents, students associations, as well as public civil servants, the design of the
Project and the implications of some keys issues, like the reduction of social subsides. The Government
and the Bank organized jointly workshops on policy development, strategic and financial planning, and
investment programming. To support a smooth implementation, an implementation manual and a two-year
action plan were submitted prior to effectiveness, which contributed to the readiness of the Project before
effectiveness.

Key activities to be carried out under this Project had never been tried before in an IDA-financed education
project undertaken in Sub-Saharan Africa. The Project supported three innovative approaches to secondary



                                                     - 14 -

school development and management: (i) a public-private partnership in establishing and managing
secondary schools, through a joint venture between the Government and private entrepreneurs; (ii) the
partnership with NGOs on education service delivery and (iii) the management of schools by municipalities
with few recurrent costs for the Government. The Government and the Bank were willing to take risks to
ensure that the project would achieve its development objective and education services at the secondary
level will be at reach and of good quality for rural areas as well.


7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance in supervision was satisfactory.

Supervision missions included the required staff with the adequate expertise and local staff that regularly
monitored project's activities. During implementation, the Project experienced one change in task team
leader, which did not affect the quality of supervision. As indicated in the PAD, two supervision missions
were conducted each year during the implementation of the Project, in addition to local follow-up and close
supervision from senior specialists from the country office in Ouagadougou. The mid-term review (MTR)
occurred as planned, two years after the effectiveness of the Project.          Reporting of the project
implementation supervision was adequate.        DO progress; output and outcome targets were regularly
updated. Supervision missions detected problems during implementation in a timely manner and gave
adequate guidance for proactive action to address these problems in collaboration with government
representatives.   Supervision missions highlighted since the beginning of project implementation the
problems related to the lack of data to monitor the sub sector development indicators, and urged the
Ministry to take appropriate actions. World Bank supervision missions also monitored regularly the civil
works component. Earlier, the Bank and the Government identified obstacles in building directorate
premises at regional levels and at the CUPB library, and addressed adequate actions to carry out the work
before the end of the Project.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in preparation is rated as satisfactory. There was close cooperation between
the Government and the Bank during the preparation process. Although, this was the first time the
MESSRS was involved alone in a Bank operation, it was involved in other Bank education operations
through Education Projects I, II, III and IV, and had a shared experience with the Bank. The Government
adequately planned project implementation by ensuring that the implementation manual was ready and by
putting forth a two-year action plan. Studies were conducted both by the Government and IDA to prepare
the national strategy of the PPEDP (PDEPP?) and the Project (see Annex 1 on supporting documents).
The Government and the Bank participated jointly in sessions organized around the country to inform
communities about the Project, its challenges, and its pioneering innovation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall, the Government's performance in implementation is rated satisfactory. Some of the issues cited in
section 5.2 above had been partially resolved. The Ministry and the DEP have prepared an action plan to
ensure that data collection and indicators will be regularly monitored, and the new DEP has successfully
prepared and published the 2004 statistical reference of the Ministry. However, changes in staffing and the
ability of the Ministry to replace with competent personnel remain an issue.

7.6 Implementing Agency:



                                                     - 15 -

The implementation agency performance was satisfactory. In general, the PIU was successful in ensuring
the day-to-day operation of the Project and coordinating activities implemented by operational services at
the central and decentralized levels of the Ministry. Although it experienced several changes in staffing, the
PIU was adequately staffed with experienced and high profile personnel.            The two project closure
extensions were needed mainly because of the social disruptions in the country, which delayed
implementation for two years. There were no financial management and audit issues pending. The Project
complied with all covenants. The monitoring and evaluation system needs further improvement in order to
ensure adequate information system of the Project's activities and outcome indicators.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Government was satisfactory. The project DOs were achieved and five out
of six monitoring indicators were achieved and sometimes exceeded most of their outcomes. The indicator
related to repetition rate and transition to higher secondary education was not achieved. However, the huge
increase of students in lower secondary will lessen the impact of shortcomings in repetition rate and
transition rate, which would not mean necessary that the quality of education has not improved. As a
whole, the Government has strived to pioneer implementing a very innovative education project in Burkina
Faso.

8. Lessons Learned

The Project confirms some long-standing lessons.

First, building capacity requires more than resources and technical assistance; it requires also a motivated
and stable staff. Constant changes in the DEP staffing reduced the achievement of the outcome objective
related to the planning capacity of the Ministry.

Second, Civil works managed by the Government need an independent oversight mechanism to ensure
transparency, and to ensure that entrepreneurs comply with the planning, and norms. The quality of private
school construction was far better than those of public.

Third, Ownership and participation from local communities is stronger and more meaningful when
communities are consulted and participate in the decision-making process.

Specific lessons from the project implementation may be highlighted, particularly with regard to
public-private and public-civil society partnerships in secondary education delivery.

1.       Partnership and decentralization are alternatives to enhance post-primary education with low
recurrent costs to the Government.
-        Municipalities' involvement is an innovative way to decentralize the post-primary education in
French speaking Sub-Saharan African countries. The strategy piloted in this Project has shown that
municipalities are able to operate secondary schools with few subsidies from the government, and low
student fees.
-        Public-Private and Public-NGOs partnerships contributed significantly to the development of the
post-primary education sector through government support, with a shared mandate. The Government helps
expand access, set the strategy, and supervise, while the private sector and NGOs manage facilities with no
recurrent cost for the government.
2.     These combined approaches in partnering with municipalities, NGOs, and private entrepreneurs to
       deliver post-primary education are affordable to parents.

-        Schools managed and operated by municipalities and NGOs deliver secondary education at low
school fees, which has been proved affordable by parents in rural areas and poor communities.
-        Schools managed by the private sector, although they have higher student fees than those managed



                                                      - 16 -

by NGOs and municipalities, still may have ways of ensuring equity. The Ministry scholarship scheme to
students from poor families to attend private schools have been proven effective in allowing students from
low income families to get secondary education.
These combined approaches are ways of expanding post primary education, increasing access, and
ensuring quality and equity in secondary education. However, because of financial limitations, the current
number of scholarships given by the Government is insufficient to have a significant impact.




                                                   - 17 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
SIGLES ET ABREVIATIONS

CEG :                   Collège d'Enseignement Général
CENAMAFS :       Centre National des Manuels et Fournitures Scolaires
CENI :                  Commission Electorale Nationale Indépendante.
CFA :                   Communauté Financière Africaine
CID :                   Circuit Informatisé de la Dépense.
CIOSPB :                Centre d'Information et d'Orientation Scolaire et Professionnelle et des Bourses
CNEFSS :                Commission Nationale Pour l'Education des Filles au Secondaire et au Supérieur
Comm :                  Communautés
CRAEF :                 Comité de Réflexion et d'Action pour l'Education des Filles
CSI :                   Conseil Supérieur de l'Information
DAF :                   Direction de l'Administration et des Finances
DEP :                   Direction des Etudes et de la Planification
DGESG :                 Direction Générale de l'Enseignement Secondaire Général
DGIFPE :                Direction Générale des Inspections et de la Formation des Personnels de l'Education
DRES :                  Directions Régionales de l'Enseignement Secondaire
DRF :                   Demande de Retrait de Fonds
DR-MESSRS :             Direction Régionale du Ministère des Enseignements Secondaire, Supérieur et de la
                        Recherche Scientifique
ENSK :                  Ecole Normale Supérieure de Koudougou
FEMS :                  Fonds de l'Edition des Manuels du Secondaire
Gouv :                  Gouvernement
IDA :                   Association Internationale pour le Développement
IDH :                   Indice de Développement Humain
MATD :                  Ministère de l'Administration Territoriale et de la Décentralisation
MEBA :                  Ministère de l'Enseignement de Base et de l'Alphabétisation
MESSRS :                Ministère des Enseignements Secondaire, Supérieur et de la Recherche Scientifique
MF :                    Médiateur du Faso
MPF :                   Ministère de la Promotion de la Femme
NTIC :                  Nouvelles technologies de l'Information et de la Communication
OCECOS :        Office Central des Examens et Concours du Secondaire
ONG :                   Organisme Non Gouvernemental
PAS :                   Programme d'Ajustement Structurel
PDDEB :                 Plan Décennal pour le Développement de l'Enseignement de Base
PEPP :                  Projet Enseignement Post-Primaire
PNB :                   Produit National Brut
PNUD :                  Programme des Nations Unies pour le Développement
SEPP :                  Stratégie d'Education Post-Primaire
SP/CNESSP :             Secrétariat Permanent de la Commission Nationale pour l'Enseignement Secondaire et
                        Supérieur Privé
UO :                    Université de Ouagadougou
UPB :                   Université Polytechnique de Bobo-Dioulasso
UVA :                   Université Virtuelle Africaine




                                                    - 18 -

PREFACE : Identification du projet
       Le projet Enseignement Post-Primaire élaboré par le Gouvernement du Burkina Faso a été approuvé par la
Banque Mondiale avec un accord de crédit (ITF N° 007-BUR) d'un montant de trente-six millions six cent mille
(36 600 000) $US (soit 18,3 milliards de francs CFA). Sa durée d'exécution est de cinq (05) ans.
       1. DESCRIPTION ET DEMARRAGE DU PROJET
       1.1 Historique
       Le projet a été approuvé le 24 décembre 1996 par la Banque Mondiale et l'accord de crédit a été signé le 24
janvier 1997. La mise en vigueur est intervenue le 16 octobre 1997, soit dix mois plus tard. Il a connu deux
prorogations et sa date de clôture est fixée au 30 avril 2004.
       - Contexte politique
       Le Burkina Faso, après une longue période d'Etat d'exception a renoué avec la démocratie multipartite en
adoptant sa nouvelle constitution en 1991. Le pays consacrait ainsi un régime constitutionnel doté des trois
pouvoirs exécutif, législatif et judiciaire, gage de bonne gouvernance.
       Suite à l'adoption de la constitution, les élections présidentielles et législatives se sont déroulées au cours de
l'année 1992. Un processus de décentralisation est enclenché depuis lors.
       Les institutions républicaines fonctionnent normalement et une presse privée s'exprime librement. Le
paysage institutionnel s'est même enrichi avec la création de nouvelles institutions (CENI, CSI, MF).
       - Situation économique et sociale
       La situation économique du Burkina Faso est marquée depuis 1991 par le Programme d'Ajustement
Structurel (PAS) dans lequel le pays s'est engagé pour restructurer son économie. Le produit national brut par
habitant (PNB/Hbt) était alors de 290 $ US (soit 145000 francs CFA). Selon l'indice du développement humain
(IDH) du PNUD, le pays était classé 170ème sur 173. Au moment où s'élaborait le projet, la situation économique
du pays était marquée par les conséquences de la dévaluation du franc CFA survenue en janvier 1994 (baisse du
pouvoir d'achat, renchérissement des coûts, etc.).
       - Situation et problèmes majeurs
       Le développement du système éducatif du Burkina Faso a connu une évolution très lente depuis
l'indépendance du pays. En raison de ses faibles capacités financières, les taux de scolarisation et la qualité de
l'enseignement sont restés faibles à tous les niveaux. De 5 p 100 à l'indépendance en 1960, le taux de scolarisation
au niveau primaire était de 38 p 100 en 1996. Au niveau du secondaire, seulement 8 p 100 de taux de scolarisation
était réalisé. En ce qui concerne l'enseignement supérieur, il n'était que de 1 p 100. Les efforts déployés au niveau
de l'enseignement primaire au cours des dix années précédentes ont créé un goulot d'étranglement au passage
entre le primaire et le secondaire entraînant une baisse du taux de transition entre les deux niveaux (32 p 100 en
1989-1990, 27 p 100 en 1994-1995). Les deux villes de Ouagadougou et Bobo-Dioulasso regroupent à elles seules
73 p 100 de l'ensemble des huit mille huit cents (8800) élèves de l'enseignement secondaire technique.
       Du reste, ces problèmes ont été relevés lors de la tenue des Etats généraux de l'éducation en 1994.
       - Cadre institutionnel
       Le Projet Enseignement Post-Primaire (PEPP) s'exécute sous la responsabilité du Ministère des
Enseignements secondaire, supérieur et de la Recherche scientifique (MESSRS). Cette responsabilité s'exerce à
travers le coordonnateur du projet qui rend compte au ministre. Il est assisté dans sa tâche par une équipe
administrative. La coordination du projet est assurée par l'unité de coordination du projet à tous les niveaux :
central, régional, communautaire et scolaire par le biais de comités composés de représentants des agences et
services compétents du Gouvernement et des bénéficiaires, y compris du secteur privé et des ONGs.
       1.2 Objectifs du projet
       - Objectif à long terme
       L'objectif à long terme du projet est d'appuyer la mise en oeuvre de la stratégie d'éducation post-primaire du
Gouvernement.
       Objectifs à court terme
       Les objectifs à court terme sont les suivants :
1.        appliquer un programme de réformes sous-sectorielles en faveur d'un meilleur rapport coût/efficacité ;
2.        augmenter le taux d'inscription au premier cycle de l'enseignement secondaire:
-         en élargissant la couverture ;
-         en améliorant l'équité entre les groupes de revenus et entre les sexes dans l'accès à l'éducation ;
3.        rehausser la qualité de l'enseignement.


                                                         - 19 -

       1.3. Les composantes
       Composante 1 : Amélioration de l'accès au premier cycle d'études secondaires et correction des
                                disparités
                                                          - Objectifs
1.       Accroître le taux dans les provinces ayant un faible taux de scolarisation au secondaire.
2.       Accroître l'accès au secondaire dans trois (03) zones autres que celles de Ouagadougou et Bobo-Dioulasso
à travers les ONGs .
3.       Accroître les effectifs scolarisés dans le privé.
       - Résultats attendus
1.       50 CEG de quatre classes construits et équipés, 50 logements de directeurs et 200 logements de
professeurs construits.
2.       63 forages réalisés.
3.       13 CEG de huit classes construits dont 3 en gestion déléguée aux ONGs, 7 en location vente aux
promoteurs privés et 3 en gestion déléguée aux municipalités.
4.       160 classes complémentaires construites dans les écoles privées existantes.
       Composante 2 : Amélioration de la qualité et de l'efficacité du niveau post-primaire
       - Objectifs :
1.       Améliorer et réorganiser la formation initiale des enseignants.
2.       Améliorer et réorganiser la formation continue des enseignants.
3.       Mettre à la disposition des élèves et des professeurs plus de livres scolaires.
4.       Renforcer les programmes éducatifs.
       - Résultats attendus
1.       Formation pré-emploi réformée avec articulation entre formation pré-emploi et formation en cours
d'emploi.
2.       Inspecteurs et conseillers pédagogiques de l'enseignement secondaire formés.
3.       Proviseurs et directeurs de collèges formés et 20 conseillers pédagogiques détachés dans les régions.
4.       3500 enseignants recyclés, leurs méthodes pédagogiques et leurs performances améliorées.
5.       Des cellules d'animation pédagogique mises en place dans les établissements.
6.       Un million de manuels scolaires, 10000 guides de l'enseignant et 30000 livres pour la bibliothèque
universitaire achetés.
7.       Un fonds des manuels scolaires constitué et approvisionné.
8.       Un système pilote d'évaluation des élèves mis en place.
9.       Le siège de l'OCECOS et la bibliothèque de l'UPB construits et équipés.
10.      Trois études sur l'enseignement secondaire général et technique menées.
       Composante 3 : Amélioration des capacités institutionnelles et de gestion du MESSRS
       - Objectifs :
1.       Améliorer la fonction de planification aux niveaux régional et central.
2.       Améliorer la gestion financière et du personnel.
3.       Accroître les capacités de coordination et de gestion des projets.
       - Résultats attendus
1.       La collecte, l'analyse et la publication en temps utile des statistiques nationales de l'enseignement
post-primaire assurées.
2.       Une carte scolaire élaborée à l'échelle nationale.
3.       Des directives élaborées à l'intention des directions régionales.
4.       Les directions et services décentralisés formés en statistique et en analyse de la politique sectorielle.
5.       Un tableau de bord préparé et mis à jour trimestriellement pour aider le MESSRS à suivre les tendances
importantes dans le secteur et à adopter rapidement les mesures correctives.
6.       Des enquêtes et études spéciales menées et des solutions viables proposées aux principaux problèmes
sectoriels et les résultats diffusés.
7.       Les procédures budgétaires et administratives revues.
8.       La gestion du personnel, l'élaboration et le contrôle budgétaires, l'allocation et le suivi des bourses
d'études et la réduction des subventions sociales informatisés.
9.       Le personnel de gestion formé.
10.      L'exécution des différentes composantes coordonnée.


                                                          - 20 -

11.       Les services et agences d'exécution conseillés et des orientations professionnelles reçues.
12.       Trois directions régionales et trois pools d'inspections construits et équipés.
13.       Le projet suivi et les résultats évalués.
Dans l'ensemble, la plupart des résultats attendus ont été réalisés. Cependant, la publication à temps des
statistiques nationales et l'élaboration de la carte scolaire nationale ne sont pas effectives en raison notamment de
la mobilité du personnel formé à cet effet.
        1.4 Organisation et réalisation du projet au niveau du MESSRS et des autres ministères impliqués
        La réalisation du projet est assurée par une unité de coordination chargée de l'exécution, du suivi et de
l'évaluation des résultats. L'unité de coordination est rattachée au cabinet du MESSRS ; à ce titre, elle participe
aux différentes rencontres au niveau du ministère.
        Le Ministère des Finances et du Budget assure la tutelle financière.
        Les différents ministères impliqués dans la réalisation du projet (MFB, MATD, MEBA, MPF) apportent un
appui technique à l'exécution des différentes sous composantes.
2 CONCEPTION, EXECUTION, REALISATION ET IMPACT DU PROJET

        2.1 Evaluation de la conception du projet
        Le PEPP a été élaboré dans l'optique d'appuyer la mise en oeuvre de la stratégie d'éducation post-primaire
(SEPP) du Gouvernement.

        Cette stratégie visait à accroître en nombre et en qualité les diplômés du secondaire grâce à un meilleur
rapport coût/efficacité et une plus grande équité entre les groupes de revenus et entre les sexes.
        Au cours de l'exécution du projet, la mise en place d'une unité de coordination et le recrutement d'un
administrateur-gestionnaire se sont avérés indispensables. De même, certaines structures du MESSRS créées après
le démarrage du projet et dont la contribution était indispensable à l'atteinte de ses objectifs ont été éligibles au
projet (SP/CNESSP, CNEFSS (ex-CRAEF), CIOSPB).
        2.2 Principaux résultats obtenus dans chacune des composantes
        Composante 1 : Amélioration de l'accès au premier cycle d'études secondaires et correction des
                               disparités
        L'exécution de cette composante a permis d'atteindre les principaux résultats suivants :
1.        63 CEG construits dont 56 équipés au profit de l'Etat, des municipalités, des ONGs et du privé et 256
logements de directeurs et de professeurs construits au profit de l'Etat et des ONGs ;
2.        60 forages réalisés au profit de l'Etat et du privé ;
3.        64 classes complémentaires construites;
4.        2 véhicules tout terrain achetés au profit de la DEP et de SP/CNSSP
        Au niveau de la composante 1, tous les résultats attendus ont été réalisés même si on peut déplorer des
retards dans l'exécution de certains travaux.
        Composante 2 : Amélioration de la qualité et de l'efficacité du niveau post-primaire
        Les principaux résultats suivants ont été obtenus :
1.        formation pré-emploi réformée avec articulation entre pré-emploi et formation en cours d'emploi ;
1.        21 inspecteurs de l'enseignement secondaire et 7 formateurs de formateurs formés à l'étranger, 44
conseillers pédagogiques formés ;
2.        251 proviseurs et directeurs d'établissements publics et privés, 635 bibliothécaires et 15 relieurs formés;
3.        , 2900 enseignants formés, leurs méthodes pédagogiques et leurs performances améliorées.
4.        1 815 500 livres achetés au profit des élèves du public et du privé ;
5.        444 mallettes pédagogiques achetés au profit des encadreurs et des CEG ;
6.        50 508 livres achetés au profit de la DGIFPE, des DRES, de l'ENSK, de l'UPB et de l'UO ;
7.        1840 armoires achetées au profit des bibliothèques de CEG ;
8.        un mini car et 36 véhicules tout terrain achetés au profit de l'ENSK, de la DGIFPE, de l'OCECOS, du
CENAMAFS, des DRES et des pools d'inspections ;
9.        du mobilier, du matériel de bureau et du matériel informatique achetés au profit du MESSRS ;
11.       un fonds des manuels scolaires constitué et approvisionné.
12.       un système pilote d'évaluation des élèves mis en place ;
10.       le siège de l'OCECOS et la bibliothèque de l'UPB construits et équipés;
11.       trois études de faisabilité sur l'approche modulaire, l'éducation technologique et la réforme des curricula



                                                           - 21 -

réalisées.
        Au niveau de la composante 2, tous les résultats attendus ont été réalisés dans leur ensemble. Mais le
nombre d'enseignants formés n'a pas été atteint du fait de l'insuffisance des moyens financiers. De même, les
cellules d'animation pédagogique n'ont pas été toutes installées et celles qui ont été installées n'ont pas fonctionné
comme prévu.
        Composante 3 : Amélioration des capacités institutionnelles et de gestion du MESSRS
        Les principaux résultats suivants ont été obtenus :
1.        la collecte et l'analyse des statistiques nationales de l'enseignement post-primaire réalisées;
2.        les directions et services décentralisés formés en statistique et en analyse de la politique sectorielle (500
chefs d'établissements et surveillants formés à la collecte et au traitement des données statistiques).
3.        les procédures budgétaires et administratives revues.
4.        la gestion du personnel, l'élaboration et le contrôle budgétaires, l'allocation et le suivi des bourses
d'études et la réduction des subventions sociales informatisés (matériel informatique et de bureau acheté pour le
MESSRS);
5.        le personnel de gestion formé (03 responsables de la DAF, de la DEP et de la DRH formés à l'étranger,
180 intendants et économes des établissements secondaires formés, 500 chefs d'établissements et surveillants
formés à la collecte et au traitement des données statistiques).
6.        équipement informatique acheté au profit du projet World Links ;
7.        réseaux informatiques réalisés dans 7 établissements ;
8.        équipement de réception des programmes UVA, de mobilier et de matériel divers achetés au profit du
projet UVA ;
9.        l'exécution des différentes composantes coordonnée.
10.       les services et agences d'exécution conseillés et des orientations professionnelles reçues.
11.       trois directions régionales et trois pools d'inspections construits et équipés.
12.       le projet suivi et les résultats évalués.
        Dans l'ensemble, la plupart des résultats attendus ont été réalisés. Cependant, la publication à temps des
statistiques nationales et l'élaboration de la carte scolaire nationale ne sont pas effectives en raison notamment de
la mobilité du personnel formé à cet effet ;
        2.3 Coordination et gestion
        Le PEPP est exécuté sous la responsabilité administrative du MESSRS.
        - Responsabilité du coordonnateur
        Les tâches dévolues au coordonnateur ont été :
·         de coordonner l'exécution des différentes composantes ;
·         de donner des conseils et des orientations professionnelles aux services et agences d'exécution ;
·         d'assurer le suivi administratif et financier ;
·         de préparer l'évaluation du projet.
- Relations entre le coordonnateur et les décideurs politiques

        Le coordonnateur et les décideurs politiques ont entretenu des relations de collaboration dans le cadre du
fonctionnement du projet et du suivi de ses activités (cf. synthèse des entretiens en annexe 4). Ainsi :
·         le ministre des Enseignements secondaire supérieur et de la Recherche scientifique qui a suivi le projet à
travers le comité de pilotage relève «qu'aucun rapport conflictuel, aucune difficulté au plan de gestion n'ont été
signalés qui puissent justifier son intervention »;
·         avec le ministre des Finances et du Budget, les bonnes relations ont favorisé les décaissements et les
différentes procédures y relatives ;
·         avec le ministre de l'Administration territoriale et de la Décentralisation, les bonnes relations ont permis
le bon fonctionnement des comités de suivi des travaux au niveau local.
- Relations entre le coordonnateur et les directeurs techniques

        La mise en place de l'unité de coordination du projet a favorisé l'établissement de bonnes relations de
collaboration entre le coordonnateur et les directeurs techniques (directeurs centraux, régionaux) par l'implication
de leurs structures aux différentes étapes de l'exécution du projet (cf. synthèse des questionnaires en annexe 5)




                                                           - 22 -

- Leçons à tirer

·        La création de l'unité de coordination et son rattachement au cabinet du MESSRS ont été une des
conditions de la réussite du projet.
·        L'implication des différentes structures administratives, des communautés, des privés, des parents
d'élèves et des ONGs a contribué grandement à la bonne exécution des activités prévues par le projet.
·        La nomination du coordonnateur par décret pris en Conseil des Ministres au lieu d'un arrêté ministériel
contribuerait à améliorer sa situation administrative.
       2.4 Impact du projet dans la mise en oeuvre de la politique nationale de formation
       Le PEPP, premier projet de cette envergure au niveau de l'enseignement post-primaire, a été d'un apport
très significatif et inestimable dans la mise en oeuvre de la politique éducative du MESSRS dont l'un des objectifs
est de doter chaque département d'un CEG.
       Sa contribution a donné un souffle nouveau à l'expansion de l'enseignement secondaire, en prenant le relais
des populations dans la mise en place des infrastructures en période de récession économique, en améliorant
également la qualité de l'éducation. Les conditions d'accès à l'éducation, d'enseignement et d'apprentissage des
élèves ont été améliorées grâce à :
·        la construction et l'équipement d'établissements secondaires ;
·        la mise à disposition de matériels pédagogiques et d'apprentissage (manuels scolaires, mallettes
pédagogiques, etc.)
·        la formation initiale et continue des enseignants et des encadreurs pédagogiques ;
·        la formation du personnel d'administration et de gestion des établissements secondaires (proviseurs,
directeurs, surveillants, intendants et économes) ;
·        la formation et la sensibilisation des associations de parents d'élèves.
       Néanmoins, les capacités d'accueil demeurent insuffisantes (une centaine de départements sont encore sans
CEG) ; les formations dispensées au personnel gagneraient à être renouvelées et consolidées et les matériels
pédagogiques acquis doivent être diversifiés et renouvelés périodiquement (cf rapports des bureaux d'études en
annexes 9, 10, 11)
       3- ANALYSE CRITIQUE DE L'ACTION DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE, DU GOUVERNEMENT
       ET DE L'ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE
       3-1 Appréciation de l'action de la Banque Mondiale au cours de l'exécution du projet
       - Principales décisions ayant favorisé l'exécution du projet
·        L'amendement de l'Accord de crédit relatif au relèvement des frais d'inscription à l'Université de
Ouagadougou.
·        Le relèvement, par deux fois, du niveau du compte spécial du projet .
·        L'accord pour le recrutement de consultants pour l'assistance technique à la conception et à l'élaboration
des plans de passation de marchés, du budget et de la gestion déléguée .
·        L'accord pour le recrutement de l'administrateur-gestionnaire du projet.
·        Le report, par deux (2) fois , de la date d'achèvement du projet .
·        La réallocation des catégories de financement à deux reprises.

       - Principales décisions ayant freiné l'exécution du projet
·        Le maintien du tableau des coûts (cost-table) comme document guide d'exécution des activités du projet.
·        Le retard dans l'approbation des plans de construction des infrastructures des trois (3) DRES (Bobo,
Ouahigouya, Koudougou) et de l'OCECOS.
     - Suivi du projet par la Banque Mondiale
            Changement de responsables
     L'arrivée d'un nouveau task manager a permis d'accélérer l'exécution du projet.
            Missions de suivi et de consultations
Les missions de suivi et de consultation ont servi d'appuis techniques comme des cabinets conseils pour faciliter
l'exécution du projet.
       - Leçons à tirer
       Les actions positives de la Banque Mondiale ont permis la mise à disposition régulière de ressources
financières pour l'exécution du projet :




                                                         - 23 -

·        l'application avec dérogation des directives de recrutement des consultants aux écoles de formation ;
·        la nécessité d'assouplir certaines conditionnalités compte tenu des réalités socio-économiques du Burkina.
       3-2 Appréciation de l'action du Gouvernement au cours de l'exécution du projet
       - Principales décisions ayant favorisé l'exécution du projet
·        La création de l'unité de coordination du projet.
·        Le versement régulier de la contrepartie nationale malgré les difficultés d'ordre budgétaire.
·        La révision de la réglementation des achats publics.
       - Principales décisions (ou absence de prise de décision) ayant freiné l'exécution du projet
·        La non affectation de personnel pour étoffer le personnel de l'unité de coordination du projet.
·        La non application des sanctions vis-à-vis des prestataires défaillants (entrepreneurs, fournisseurs,
consultants).
·        Le non suivi du fonctionnement des comités provinciaux et régionaux installés.
·        la non prise de mesures pour réduire les délais longs des formalités douanières et l'enregistrement des
contrats au niveau du service des Impôts
       - Difficultés de la trésorerie et de la contrepartie du Gouvernement
       La contrepartie nationale n'a pas été totalement décaissée malgré les efforts fournis par le Gouvernement.
       - Suivi du projet au niveau du MESSRS
·        L'implication des plus hautes autorités dans l'exécution du projet à travers :
-        le rattachement de la cellule d'exécution du projet au cabinet du ministre ;
-        la présidence de certaines réunions techniques par le ministre lui-même ;
-        la présidence des réunions périodiques du comité de pilotage par le secrétaire général ;
·        Le suivi de l'exécution des travaux de génie civil par la DEP, le SP/CNESSP et les directions régionales
·        L'installation des comités provinciaux et régionaux de gestion et leur implication dans les réalisations des
infrastructures à travers les comités départementaux.
       - Changement (s) de Gouvernement, s'il y a lieu et conséquences sur le suivi du projet
       La mobilité des responsables et du personnel a ralenti l'exécution de certaines activités.
       - Principales leçons à tirer
·        La nécessité de prendre des mesures appropriées pour la mise en vigueur des projets après leur
approbation.
·        Vu l'envergure du projet avec ses multiples aspects innovants, le MESSRS a eu le mérite de conduire le
projet à terme, qui a atteint ses objectifs, malgré quelques insuffisances et gagnerait à capitaliser les expériences
acquises.
·        La nécessité de dynamiser les structures de gestion à tous les niveaux.
·        La nécessité d'appliquer efficacement les textes régissant les achats publics.
       3.3 Evaluation de l'efficacité et de la qualité des relations entre la Banque Mondiale et le
       Gouvernement durant l'exécution du projet
       L'efficacité et la qualité des relations entre la Banque Mondiale et le Gouvernement du Burkina Faso ont
permis de conduire avec succès le PEPP qui a réalisé un taux global d'exécution estimé à 96,53%.
       3. 4 Evaluation des performances des différentes institutions, bureaux d'études et consultants ayant
       participé à la réalisation du projet (coûts, bénéfices)
       - Pour l'unité de coordination
       L'efficacité et la performance des différents bureaux et des consultants ont permis de suppléer le manque de
personnel au niveau de la coordination.
- Dans le domaine du génie civil
·        L'agence Faso Baara a entièrement réalisé de façon acceptable les 30 CEG.
·        Le ministère a exécuté 20 CEG publics, 13 CEG en location vente et en gestion déléguée, 64 classes
complémentaires et 60 forages grâce à l'appui des consultants ; ces réalisations ont donné entière satisfaction.
·        Le ministère a également réalisé de manière satisfaisante les trois (03) DRES (Bobo, Ouahigouya,
Koudougou), le siège de l'Office Central des Examens et Concours du Secondaire (OCECOS) et la bibliothèque de
l'Université Polytechnique de Bobo-Dioulasso (UPB) même si ces chantiers ont connu des retards d'exécution.
- Appui aux structures
       De façon générale, les institutions, les bureaux d'études et les consultants ont exécuté leurs activités
conformément aux termes de référence. Il s'agit notamment de:



                                                         - 24 -

·        l'étude de faisabilité sur l'approche modulaire dans l'enseignement technique et professionnel ;
·        l'étude de faisabilité sur l'éducation technologique ;
·        l'étude de faisabilité sur la réforme des curricula ;
·        l'assistance technique en matière d'évaluation et de testing à l'OCECOS ;
·        l'étude sur le schéma directeur informatique de l'UO.
4 ­ EVALUATION ECONOMIQUE ET FINANCIERE DU PROJET
4.1 Coût total du projet: 36,6 millions $ US soit 18,3 milliards F CFA décomposés comme suit :
·        26 millions $ US pour la Banque Mondiale soit 13 milliards F CFA
·        7 millions $ US pour le Gouvernement du Burkina Faso soit 3,5 milliards F CFA
·        0,9 million $ US pour les communautés soit 0,45 milliard F CFA
·        2,7 millions $ US pour le secteur privé soit 1,35 milliard F CFA
   - Prévisions de départ et coûts réels pour les différentes composantes du projet

                                         Coûts    estimés Coûts réels les plus récents en millions de FCFA Pourcentage
 Coût du projet/composante               en millions de                                                        de réalisation
                                         FCFA lors de                                                          par
                                         l'évaluation                                                          composante
                                                           Gouv.                                               CommPrivéI
                                                                                                               DATotal
 1       Amélioration de l'accès et 9750                  1522                                                 671350(*)47
 réduction des disparités                                                                                      32632164,83
 2­ Amélioration de la qualité et 6900                    716                                                  7652
 de         l'efficacité         dans                                                                          8368121,27
 l'enseignement post primaire
 3 ­ Renforcement institutionnel du 1650                  289                                                  2687
 MESSRS                                                                                                        2976180,36
                                         18300            2527                                                 671350(*)15
 Total                                                                                                         071
                                                                                                               1766596,53
(*) coûts réels non disponibles
 - Valeur et niveau de recouvrement de la contrepartie du gouvernement (cf. Annexe 2)

 Valeur de la contrepartie              Valeur de la contrepartie recouvrée % recouvré
 en F CFA                               en F CFA
 3 500 000 000                           2 714 592 500                        77,56

NB 1 $ US = 500 F/ CFA

       4.2 Coûts récurrents engendrés par le projet sur le système de formation
       (cf. Annexes 7)
       La méthodologie utilisée pour le calcul des coûts récurrents a consisté à :
·        collecter les données à travers l'exploitation des rapports d'activités du projet de 1997 à 2004, l'état
d'exécution des activités du projet par catégorie, le budget du MESSRS et le CID ;
·        identifier les éléments des coûts récurrents (charge du personnel des nouvelles structures, entretien des
infrastructures et maintenance des équipements, acquisition de fournitures de bureau et consommables) ;
·        évaluer les coûts récurrents par élément de coût.
       - Prévisions des coûts récurrents annuels du projet

        ELEMENTS DE COUT                                                  COÛTS/AN (en FCFA)
        Charge du personnel des nouvelles structures                      516 375 168
       Entretien des infrastructures                                      61 560 000
       Maintenance des équipements                                        128 547 410



                                                         - 25 -

       Eau, téléphone, électricité                                          119 040 000
       Fournitures de bureau et autres consommables                         28 790 800
       Financement domaines d'intervention                                  119 417 500
        TOTAL des coûts récurrents annuels                                  973 730 878

       Il ressort de ce tableau que l'Etat doit allouer en moyenne 973 730 878 FCFA par an soit 5,32 % du coût
total du projet pour pérenniser les effets positifs crées par le projet.
       Ces coûts ne prennent pas en compte l'inflation à venir ainsi que les avancements périodiques des agents.
       4. 3 Conséquences prévisibles de la fin du projet sur les structures institutionnelles mises en place dans
       le cadre du projet
       L'unité de coordination et le comité de pilotage mis en place dans le cadre de l'exécution du projet seront
dissous avec la fin du projet.
       4.4 Leçons à tirer
·        L'actualisation du tableau des coûts par la prise en compte d'une part des nouvelles activités entrant dans
le cadre de l'atteinte des objectifs du projet et nées de l'évolution du système éducatif, d'autre part des coûts
nouveaux engendrés par l'actualisation des activités prévues au départ.
·        La prise en compte effective des charges récurrentes du projet par l'Etat afin d'assurer la continuité dans
l'exécution des activités ;
·        La nécessité pour l'Etat d'honorer les échéances de décaissement de la contrepartie nationale pour le bon
fonctionnement du projet.
·        La modulation de la participation financière des communautés à la réalisation de certaines infrastructures
pour tenir compte du niveau de pauvreté du pays.
·        L'appropriation de l'élaboration, de l'exécution et du suivi des budgets des projets par les structures
compétentes du ministère.
·        L'OCECOS et les pools d'inspection mis en place dans le cadre du projet ont contribué d'une part à
l'amélioration de l'évaluation et de la notation des élèves et d'autre part à un encadrement de proximité des
enseignants. Les capacités de ces structures devront alors être renforcées.
·        L'implication effective de toutes les structures créées dans le cadre du projet pour faciliter l'obtention de
résultats ; c'est le cas des comités régionaux , provinciaux et du comité de sous composantes qui n'ont pas
véritablement fonctionné.
·        La nécessité de la mise en place d'un mécanisme exceptionnel de gestion des comptes FEMS et location
vente de CEG, administrés par le MESSRS et supervisés par le MFB.

       5- PERSPECTIVES POUR UN NOUVEAU PROJET ET UTILITE D'UN NOUVEAU PROJET S'IL
            Y A LIEU
         Initié par le Gouvernement et la Banque Mondiale pour appuyer la mise en oeuvre de la stratégie
d'éducation Post-Primaire, le projet d'Enseignement Post-Primaire (PEPP) a permis de réaliser des actions qui ont
contribué à augmenter les taux d'inscription au premier cycle de l'enseignement secondaire général et de rehausser
la qualité de l'enseignement par la formation initiale et continue des enseignants et des encadreurs.
       Le projet a atteint les objectifs qui lui étaient assignés ; il a marqué une étape importante car il a permis de
mobiliser le Gouvernement, les communautés, les organisations à but non lucratif et les Promoteurs Privés autour
de la gestion du développement de l'enseignement secondaire général.
         Cependant, si le projet a permis d'obtenir des résultats dans le domaine de l'amélioration des conditions
d'accès à l'enseignement secondaire général, il a aussi créé de nouveaux besoins à satisfaire. Ces besoins seront
amplifiés par les effets de mise en oeuvre du Plan Décennal de Développement de l'Enseignement de Base
(PDDEB).
       Aussi convient-il d'élaborer un nouveau projet qui prendrait en compte les volets suivants:
·        l'accroissement de la capacité d'accueil par la construction de nouveaux établissements d'enseignement
secondaire du premier et du second cycles ;
·        le développement de l'enseignement technique et professionnel, de l'enseignement supérieur tant du
secteur public que du privé ;
·        le renforcement des ressources humaines à travers la formation d'enseignants et d'encadreurs notamment
dans les disciplines scientifiques ;



                                                           - 26 -

·         la consolidation du système de production didactique ;
·         la mise en place de bibliothèques équipées en NTIC et mises en réseau dans les établissements
d'enseignement secondaire et supérieur ;
·         le renforcement de l'enseignement des disciplines scientifiques par la construction de laboratoires et la
formation de laborantins ;
·         l'appui institutionnel au MESSRS (appui à la décentralisation, renforcement du système d'informations
statistiques, logistique, formation du personnel, etc.)
        6- CONCLUSION
        Le PEPP a eu un impact national considérable au regard du volume et de la qualité des réalisations dans le
sens de l'amélioration de la qualité du système éducatif, l'importance des acquisitions matérielles et des
infrastructures scolaires, la consolidation du partenariat entre l'Etat, les ONGs, les communautés, le secteur privé,
etc. à travers la gestion déléguée des CEG, la location-vente, les classes complémentaires. Le PEPP a été d'une
contribution considérable à la réalisation de l'objectif « Un département, un CEG » .
        La mise en place d'un nouveau projet permettrait de renforcer l'enseignement post-primaire tout en
consolidant les acquis du PEPP.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information




                                                         - 27 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                             Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Increase the transition rate from primary to 30%                                                 41.9%
secondary level, from 27% in 1994/95 to 30%
in 2001, and to 35% in 2005;
2. Increase the total lower secondary             42%                                               75.5%
enrollments by 42% in 2001;
                                                  2.2 billion FCFA                                  1.5 billionFCFA
3. Decrease the total student social subsidy
in both higher and secondary education, from
CFAF 4.8 billion to CFAF 2.2 billion by 2001;
4. Improve equity by enrolling an aditional       8,000                                             11,954
8,000 students in the 10 provinces with
lowest levels of access to secondary schools.
Increase the proportion of girls to 40% of total 40%                                                40.2%
enrollment.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                             Actual/Latest Estimate
1.1 63 new CEG constructed; 50 located in         1.1 63 new CEG constructed; 50 located in         1.1 63 new CEG constructed; 50 located in
underserved areas and managed by public           underserved areas and managed by public           underserved areas and managed by public
institutions; 10 managed by private operators institutions; 10 managed by private operators institutions; 12 managed by private operators
and municipalities and 3 managed by NGO.          and municipalities and 3 managed by NGO           and municipalities and 1 managed by NGO
1.2 Construction of 160 additional                1.2 Construction of 160 additional                1.2 Construction of 108 additional
classrooms (on a matching scheme (80 by           classrooms (on a matching scheme (80 by           classrooms (on a matching scheme (54 by
project and 80 by private promoters) in           project and 80 by private promoters) in           project and 54 by private promoters) in
existing private schools                          existing private schools                          existing private schools
1.3 60% of dormitory places allocated to          1.3 60% of dormitory places allocated to          1.3 60% of dormitory places allocated to
female students.                                  female students.                                  female students.
1.4 New secondary scholarships are                1.4 New secondary scholarships are                1.4 New secondary scholarships are
allocated exclusively to girls with a priority to allocated exclusively to girls with a priority to allocated exclusively to girls with a priority to
the 10 provinces with lowest coverage.            the 10 provinces with lowest coverage.            the 10 provinces with lowest coverage.
2.1 General secondary curriculum revised          2.1 General secondary curriculum revised          2.1 General secondary curriculum revised
and priority changes integrated.                  and priority changes integrated.                  and priority changes integrated.
2.2 Purchase of one million textbooks for         2.2 Purchase of one million textbooks for         2.2 Purchase of 1,766,000 textbooks for
students; 10,000 teacher's guides; and            students; 10,000 teacher's guides; and            students; 10,000 teacher's guides; and
30,000 library books for university faculties     30,000 library books for university faculties     30,000 library books for university faculties
3.1 Studies on new or improved methods or         3.1 Studies on new or improved methods or         3.1 Studies on new or improved methods or
approaches completed and implemented.             approaches completed and implemented.             approaches completed and not yet
                                                                                                    implemented.
3.2 3,500 teachers, 220 directors and 72          3.2 3,500 teachers, 220 directors and 72          3.2 3,200 teachers, 1200 directors and 90
pedagogic advisors complete inservice             pedagogic advisors complete inservice             pedagogic advisors complete inservice
training by 2001.                                 training by 2001.                                 training by 2003.
3.3 2 hours of school-based supervised            3.3 2 hours of school-based supervised            3.3 2 hours of school-based supervised
homework per week implemented.                    homework per week implemented.                    homework per week implemented.
4.1 School directors'skills improved in           4.1 School directors'skills improved in           4.1 900 School directors'skills improved in
pedagogic techniques, administration and          pedagogic techniques, administration and          pedagogic techniques, administration and
financial management.                             financial management.                             financial management.
4.2 Regional Units be responsible for             4.2 Regional Units be responsible for             4.2 Regional Units are responsible for
managment skills upgrading in school              managment skills upgrading in school              managment skills upgrading in school
mapping, educational statistics, exams and        mapping, educational statistics, exams and        mapping, educational statistics, exams and
standard tests and performance monitoring.        standard tests and performance monitoring.        standard tests and performance monitoring.
4.3 Central management upgraded in sector 4.3 Central management upgraded in sector 4.3 Central management upgraded in sector
analysis, planning, budgeting, and evaluation. analysis, planning, budgeting, and evaluation. analysis, planning, budgeting, and evaluation.
5.1. Effective teaching to reach 36 weeks         5.1. Effective teaching to reach 36 weeks         5.1. Effective teaching to reach 36 weeks




                                                                     - 28 -

(180 days)                                   (180 days)                                   (180 days)
5.2 Redeployment of underutilized teachers   5.2 Redeployment of underutilized teachers   5.2 Redeployment of underutilized teachers
5.3 Student subsidies reduced: new           5.3 Student subsidies reduced: new           5.3 Student subsidies reduced: new
secondary school scholarships from 1,800 in secondary school scholarships from 1,800 in secondary school scholarships from 1,800 in
96-97 to 0 in 2001, and maximum 500 new      96-97 to 0 in 2001, and maximum 500 new      96-97 to 0 in 2001, and maximum 500 new
higher education scholarships per year.      higher education scholarships per year.      higher education scholarships per year.
5.4 Privatized management of university      5.4 Privatized management of university      5.4 Privatized management of university
restaurant service. Co-payment Health        restaurant service. Co-payment Health        restaurant service. Co-payment Health
Service implemented                          Service implemented                          Service implemented

5.5 Cost recovery policy implemented; 75%    5.5 Cost recovery policy implemented; 75%    5.5 Cost recovery policy implemented; 75%
of registration fees kept at school level;   of registration fees kept at school level;   of registration fees kept at school level;
doubled higher educaton fees.                doubled higher educaton fees.                doubled higher educaton fees.

1End of project




                                                                - 29 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
ACCESS                                                      19.50           12.97             66.5
QUALITY                                                     13.80           16.72            121.2
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY                                       3.30             3.75           113.6

Total Baseline Cost                                         36.60           33.44
                        Total Project Costs                 36.60           33.44
                  Total Financing Required                  36.60           33.44


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.35             1.63         5.20           0.00        7.17
                                  (0.38)          (1.23)       (1.80)         (0.00)       (3.41)
2. Goods                          5.24             0.36         1.42           0.00        7.02
                                  (3.99)          (0.29)       (1.61)         (0.00)       (5.89)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00         1.10           0.00        1.10
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.99)         (0.00)       (0.99)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous



                                                - 30 -

                                           0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                5.59               1.99              7.71             0.00             15.29
                                          (4.37)             (1.52)            (4.40)            (0.00)           (10.29)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.




                                                          - 31 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

 Table A3.1. Economic Analysis

                 Present Value of Flows Using a discount rate of 10% in US millions
Economic Analysis                              Financial Analysis
     Appraisal             Latest                   Estimates Appraisal        Latest Estimates


Base year : 1997         2003                     1997                          2003


Benefits:    47.3               22.0                  40.3                             ND
Costs        41.2              14.5                   37.5                              ND
IRR           17.3%               36%
Net Benefits: 6.1              3.6                   2.8                                ND
IRR/NPV




                                                   - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              9/25/1995 TO              5    CORE TEAM: SR EDUCATION          S               S
              7/01/1996                      SPECIALIST(1), SR
                                             IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1), OPERATION
                                             OFFICER (1),
                                             ECONOMIST-CONSULTANT
                                             (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              09/25/ TO               11     EXTENDED TEAM:                   S               S
              7/01/1996                      EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                             (2), PROJECT
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1), STAFF
                                             ASSISTANT (2), PROJECT
                                             ASSISTANT (2), HUMAN
                                             RESSOURCES
                                             SPECIALIST (1),
                                             CONSULTANT
                                             ARCHITECT (1),
                                             CONSULTANT (2).


 Supervision

              12/12/1997                7    S. EDUCATION SPECIALIS           S               S
                                             (1); S. IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPEC (1); EDUCATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (2);
                                             CONSULTANT (1),
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              05/28/1998                4    SR. EDUC. SPECIALIST (1);        S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             TEXTBOOK SPECIALIST (1)
              01/18/1999                2    SR. EDUCATION SPECIALI           S               S
                                             (1);
                                             ARCHITECT/CONSULTANT
                                             (1)FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              06/04/1999                2    SR. EDUCATION SPECIAL.           S               S
                                             (1); ARCHITECT/CONSULT.



                                              - 33 -

                                           (1)
               05/10/2000              2   SR.EDUCATION SPECIALIS             S    S
                                           (2)
               11/22/2000              4   SR. EDUCATION SPECIAL.             S    S
                                           (1); TEXTBOOK SPECIALIST
                                           (1); CONSULTANT (1),
                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           SPECIALIST (1)
               03/31/2001              6   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           ECONOMIST (1);
                                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                           ASSISTANT (2), FINANCIAL
                                           MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1)
               12/10/2001              4   EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);          S    S
                                           SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                           (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                           (1), FINANCIAL
                                           MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1)
               12/12/2002              8   TEAM LEADER (1); SR EDUC.          S    S
                                           SPECIALIST (2); FINANCIAL
                                           MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1), PROCUREMENT
                                           ANALYST (1); CONSULTANT
                                           (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                           (1); TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
               11/15/2003              3   TASK TEAM LEADER (1),              S    S
                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           SPECIALIST (1), ARCHITECT
                                           CONSULTANT (1)


 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                          275.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                                     1,006.008
  ICR
  Total                                                             1,281.5




                                            - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 36 -

 Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 Government of Burkina Faso. Decrees for leasing contracts, delegated management and matching classes.
 February 12, 2002.

 Government of Burkina Faso. Draft contracts for leasing, delegated management and matching classes.
 May 2002.

 Kazianga, Harounan. Schooling returns for wage earners in Burkina Faso: Evidence from the 1994 and
 1998 national surveys. Yale University. August 2004.

 MESSRS. 10-year Strategic Plan for Education 1997-2006. March 1996.

 MESSRS. Project Implementation Manual. December 1998.

 MESSRS. Report on the development of Education 1994 ­1996, Report for the International Convention
 on Education. September 1996.

 MESSRS. Strategy for Development of Post-Primary Education. May 1995.

 World Bank. Cadre stratégique de lutte contre la pauvreté au Burkina, version révisée. Mars 2003.

 World Bank. Country Assistance Strategy for Burkina Faso. June 1996.

 World Bank. Education Policies for Sub-Saharan Africa: Adjustment, Revitalization and Expansion.
 Research paper. September 15, 1987.

 World Bank. Implementation Completion Report, Education IV Project, Burkina Faso. June 28, 1999.

 World Bank. Performance Audit Report, Primary Education, Fourth Education Project, Burkina Faso,
 June 28, 2000

 World Bank. PID for Post-Primary Education Project. December 1996.

 World Bank. Project Appraisal Document for Post-Primary Education Project. November 11, 1996.

 World Bank. The Budget as Centerpiece of PRSP Implementation Public Expenditure Review. June 2004.

 World Bank. Various Aide-Memoires, PSR of the PEPP, and internal notes. Unpublished.
 Annex 8. Enrollment Progress


 Table A8.1: Progress in enrollment from 1995 to 2003

Indicators                               1994-1995         2002-2003        Percentage Increased

Number of students enrolled in public 72 268        128 159               77%
lower secondary school

 Number of public lower secondary     13 353         24 738               85,26%




                                                    - 37 -

 school students enrolled in the ten
 least covered provinces

 Number of girls enrolled in public     22 676            45 136                      94,37%
 lower secondary school

 Number of girls enrolled in the ten     3 631            7 821                       115,39%
 least covered provinces

 Number of students enrolled in private 35 846           66 546                       85,64%
 lower secondary school

 Number of girls enrolled in private    16 153          33 719                        108,74%
 lower secondary school

 Number of students with vouchers in    13 509          0                             -
 private lower secondary schools

Ratio books per student                 NA              6 books per student, for
                                                        grades 6è, 5è. 8 books per
                                                        student for grades 4è and 3è.



 Table A8.2: Progress in enrollment in the three types of Partnerships

Indicators                         2000-2001        2001-2002           2002-2003           2003-2004

                                     Total            Girls                Total       GirlsTotalGirlsTotalGi
                                                                                                 rls

 Number of students enrolled -                  -                  -                   -578247993461
 in the 3 lower secondary
 schools operated by
 municipalities

 Number of students enrolled -                  -                  -                   -6083121244625
 in lower secondary schools
 operated by private under the
 pay back mechanism

Number of students enrolled    -                -                  -                   -91037337801549
in classrooms built under the
matching scheme


 Table A8.3: Progress in number of students entering in and graduating from lower secondary


 Number of                             Number of         Number of         Number of         % of
 students                               students         students            students      students
 enrolled at                         enrolled in 1st  enrolled in last     graduating     graduating
 the end of                           year of lower    year of lower       from lower     from lower
 primary                               secondary         secondary         secondary      secondary

 (CM2
 1996/1997                 101,577                              38,388            13,273       34.58%
 1997/1998                 103,446             38,309           37,303            13,448       36.05%
 1998/1999                 110,268             34,658           36,929            10,811       29.28%



                                                         - 38 -

1999/2000    114,559    43,798       37,294   13,823  37.06%
2000/2001    127,733    43,150       40,486   15,068  37.22%
2001/2002    130,478                 46,366   24,195  52.18%




                               - 39 -

- 40 -

