Report No. PIC4633
Project Name              Burkina Faso-Post-Primary Education Project
Region                    Africa
Sector                    Education
Project ID                BFPA304
Borrower                  The Government of Burkina Faso (GBF)
Implementing agency:Ministere des Enseignements
Secondaire, Superieur et de la
Recherche Scientifique (MESSRS)
Address: o3 BP 7130, Ouagadougou.
Tel: 226-324866
Fax: 226- 324861. Contact: Mr. Pascal S.
Millogo, Project Coordinator.
Date PID prepared         October 1996
Appraisal Date            July, 1996
Board Date                December 1996
1.   Country/Sector background.    Burkina Faso is one of the poorest
countries in the world with a per capita income of US$300. During most
of the 1908s, Burkina Faso's economy enjoyed relatively rapid growth of
3.7 percent a year. By 1990, the composition of public expenditures
became a subject of concern, due to the rapid increase in wages and
salaries and the consequent crowding-out of investment and non salary
operating costs. In 1991, the Government adopted a structural adjustment
program which was supported by IDA and the IMF. This structural
adjustment program coupled with the succession of four PFPs helped
protect primary education expenditures and better link the macro and
education sectoral reforms. In January 1994, the GBF decided, together
with other countries of the CFA zone, to devaluate the CFA franc by 50
percent with the support of IDA. Despite the progress made to date, much
remains to be done in all sectors, particularly in human resource
development, and to overcome the legacy of the country's past policies.
2.   Education Development and Government Policy.     Burkina remains one
of the countries in the world with the lowest education indicators at
all levels. Gross primary school enrolent, which was about 5% at the
time of independence in 1960, has increased to 38%. At the secondary
level, enrolents have increased fourfold over the last decade to about
9% of the relevant age group. The demand for places in public secondary
schools is far greater than the availability of places. About 8,800
students are enrolled in technical schools (73% in private schools). A
National University, created in 1974 with 533 students, now has over
9,400 students, or about 19 of the relevant age group.     The quality of
education is low, as is evidenced by high dropout and repeater rates and
low examination pass rates at all levels. It takes 9.5 years, on
average, to produce a lower secondary school graduate (2.4 times longer
than elsewhere), and an additional 5.8 years to produce an upper
secondary graduate (1.9 times longer). In secondary schools the
instructional year is very short-it extends only from the second week of
October to the end of May. MESSRS' capacity to use its resources cost-



effectively is hampered by its weak capacity for management. It has had
limited experience with the implementation of foreign-financed projects.
In the late 1980s, the Government developed a five-year plan to expand
and improve primary education. This plan became a National Basic
Education Program, designed to raise the gross enrolent rate to 46t of
the school-aged population by the year 2000, improve the quality of
education, increase the enrolent of girls, and promote more cost-
effective use of public education resources. Following several studies
and technical discussion on the education system, in 1994 the Government
organized a national consultation (Etats Generaux de l'Education EGE)
that recognized that resources for education will remain constrained;
the EGE proposed a number of measures to increase cost-effectiveness and
recommended giving priority to primary education. In response, the
Government developed a subsectoral reform program (SSRP) to improve
education within severe economic and budgetary constraints. In the
context of the SSRP, the Government developed a Post-Primary Education
Strategy (PPES) to (a) restructure the sector to use resources more
efficiently; (b) increase the participation of the private sector in
secondary education to free up resources for the expansion of public
primary education; and (c) improve quality and efficiency. The PPES was
accompanied by an Investment Plan (IP) for 1996-2005.
3.   Project Objectives. The project supports the implementation of the
Government's Post-Primary Education Strategy (PPES). It aims to have
more and better-trained students graduated from secondary schools at
reduced subsidy costs, with increased equality between genders and
income levels. Progress in achieving this development objective by 2001
will be evaluated on the basis of the following indicators: (a) the
proportion of primary school graduates who continue on to lower-
secondary education rises from 27t to 30w; (b) grade repetition
decreases from W to 20w; (c) total student social subsidies in higher
and secondary education are reduced from CFAF 4.8 billion to CFAF 2.2
billion; (d) the proportion of girls enrolled in secondary school rises
from 35t to 40t of total enrolent; and (e) 8,000 additional students are
enrolled in secondary schools in the 10 provinces with the highest
incidence of poverty and lowest school coverage.
4.   Project Description. The project supports expansion of both public
and private provision of services to increase access to secondary
education and promotes greater participation by girls and by low-income
young people. In addition, various measures are designed to improve the
quality of education offered and enhance the capacity of the Ministry of
Secondary and Higher Education and of Scientific Research (MESSRS) to
carry out its functions in the education sector.
5.   The project includes the following components:    (a) Access to
Lower-Secondary Education, supports construction of new public schools,
operation of schools by nonprofit organizations, and expansion of
private schools; (b) Quality of Post-Primary Education, supports
reforming and improving preservice and inservice training for teachers,
increasing the availability of textbooks, and reforming curricula and
improving testing; and (c) Institutional Strengthening of MESSRS,
supports improving the sectoral planning and managerial capacities of
MESSRS at the regional and central levels.
- 2-



6.    Project Implementation. Implementation period: Five years. Project
coordination: A project coordinator (PC), to be assisted by a small
administrative staff, will be posted in the Minister's Cabinet and
report directly to the Minister. The PC will be responsible for
planning and coordinating project activities within the MESSRS, with
other Government agencies/units, and with other groups. Under the PC's
guidance, MESSRS line units will be responsible for day-to-day
coordination and implementation of activities for which they have prime
responsibility. Project coordination will be ensured at all operational
levels: central, regional, and community/school, through committees with
representatives from relevant Government agencies/units, beneficiaries,
private sector groups, and NGOs. Project oversight and policy guidance
will be the responsibility of MESSRS' Steering Committee, which is
chaired by the Minister; the committee will be supported by the
Interministerial Committee, comprising MESSRS, Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Public Service, and the Ministry of Basic Education (MEBA)
7.   Project Sustainability. The project is designed to promote long-
term sustainability by (a) developing a capacity in MESSRS to
constantly evaluate the quality and effectiveness of secondary and
tertiary education, and to take immediate remedial actions as necessary;
(b) reducing expenditures on scholarships, and other social
expenditures, freeing resources for improvement in quality; (c) ensuring
that all public secondary schools have sufficient resources to finance
nonteaching expenditures; and (d) ensuring quality education in
nonpublic secondary schools to encourage increased enrolent without
placing an additional burden on the Government's budget. The savings
associated with the planned policy measures include (a) direct revenue
and savings from increasing university and registration fees, reduction
of grants and scholarships, and a cost-recovery scheme for textbooks;
and (b) indirect savings associated with such measures as the
privatization of the management of the university restaurant canteens
and of the student health insurance scheme, and the redeployment of some
of the teaching staff.   These savings (13t of recurrent budget) actually
outweigh the incremental recurrent costs (7t of recurrent budget)
associated with the investments proposed in the project.
8.   Lessons from Previous IDA Involvement.   Lesson 1:   the Government
should, at an early stage, develop a comprehensive policy framework that
forms the basis for the intervention of all donors in the subsector.
Reflecting this lesson, the project is based on the Government's Post-
Primary Education Strategy and Investment Plan developed following a
national consultation on education. Lesson 2: to guide implementation
and build momentum, reasonably detailed implementation arrangements
covering especially the first two years should be developed before the
project becomes effective. Reflecting this lesson, MESSRS has prepared
a satisfactory draft implementation manual focusing on a detailed
programs for the first two years of the project. Lesson 3: implementing
sensitive reform measures affecting, in particular, secondary and higher
education students (e.g., reduction of scholarships) is politically
risky; such reforms are not likely to succeed unless they are preceded
by extensive consensus-building efforts among the various affected
groups. Reflecting this lesson, national and regional workshops were
held during project preparation; and extensive discussions on the
project's objectives, policy measures, and investment program were
- 3 -



conducted with the Burkinabe authorities at the national and local
levels (including mayors), the teachers' union, Parents' Association,
NGOs, and private sector representatives.
9.   Poverty Category.    Focusing on issues of efficiency, equity, and
quality, the project will particularly benefit the poorer groups of the
Burkina population, both in the urban as well as the rural areas. Target
populations: (a) primary school graduates who pass the national entrance
exam for secondary school; (b) boys and girls in the 10 provinces with
the lowest access to secondary education and in the zones with the
highest percentage of population living below the poverty line; (c) boys
and girls from households in the two highest income groups and living in
urban areas, who will have increased access to non public schools; and
(d) girls in tertiary education. Social benefit: (a) Increased numbers
of girls educated: dormitory rooms and scholarships reserved for girls;
and (b) Greater equality of educational opportunity: government
education resources concentrated on most underserved populations, with
86t of the school construction program   targeted to provinces where the
proportion of poor people is the highest.
10.  Project Objective Category.     The project will contribute to human
capital development, capacity building, and poverty reduction.
11. Environmental Aspects. This is a Category C project. No
environmental risks are foreseen. Construction would comply with
national environmental laws. Schools would be built following acceptable
standards. Many classrooms would be associated with existing schools.
Provision of latrines and promoted hygiene will have positive
environmental impact. There would be no displacement of people.
Contact Point:            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending January 17, 1997.
- 4 -



