Report No. 509a-SW                                                                             K
Swaziland.
Appraisal of Water Supply
and Sewerage Project
October 21, 1974
Public Utilities Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report



SWAZILAND
Appraisal of Water Supply and Sewerage ProJect
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Curreno,y Unit                   =Emalangeni (E)
US$1                                         Emalangeni 0.67
US$1 million                     =             ualangeni 670,000
1 Emalangeni                                 US$1.50
Emalangeni 1 million             =           US$1,500,000
1 Emalangeni                                 1 Rand
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Government                                   Government of Swaziland
WSB                                          Water and Sewerage Board
U-NDP                                        United Nations Development
Program
Colquhoun                                    Brian Colquhoun & Partners
MPC=                                         Ministry of Works, Power
and Communications
HHO1=                                        Hawkins, Hawkins & Osborn
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Imperial gallon (Ig)           =           1.2 US gallons = 4.55 liters
1 million Imperial gallons
per day (Imgd)                           4,546 cubic meters per day
1 millimeter (mm)                            0.039 inches
1 kilometer (km)       2                     0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (k2)          =           0.386 square miles
FISCAL YEAR
April 1   -   March 31



SWAZILAND
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUNMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .....     ..................    i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION   ..................................    1
II.   THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR .....     ..................  1
Introduction .     ..........,.,,.,,..   .,.        1
Technical Characteristics         .    .     .       2
Sector Organization   .     ....................     2
III. THE PROJECT ...............   3
Background       ..................................  3
Description   .................................      3
Cost Estimates .     ...............................  4
Procurement ......... ,    5
Disbursement   ..................................    5
Administration and Supervision ..............        6
Ecological Implications ...... ...............       6
IV.  JUSTIFICATION .......................                 7
Project Objectives ............................      7
Demand  ,orecasts  ..............................    7
Financial Return on Investment .....    ...........  8
V.  THE BORROWER AND TIE BENEFICIARY ....    ..........   9
The Borrower .....................                   9
The Beneficiary ....................                 9
Management and Staff .....................,.,.    10
Accounting ..........................    10
Auditing      .................................... .,    11
Risks       .......................................  11
VI.   FINANCE    .................... ...................  12
Financing Plan          .      .      ..........    12
Tariffs            .       .       .............  13
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission consisting of Messrs.
E. Greenwood, R. Reekie and M. Cuellar (consultant) which visited Swaziland
during January and February 1974.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
Future Operating Results and Financial
Position .......       ............................   15
Capital Expenditures and Debt Service ........          15
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS    .......       16
List of Annexes
Annex
1       Descriptions of Existing Water Supply and Sewerage
Facilities and Project in Mbabane, Manizini and
Nhlangano
2       Cost Estimate
3       Estimated Schedule of Disbursements for IBRD Loan
4       Construction Schedule
5       Notes on Population and Demand Forecast
6       Notes on Calculation of Return on Investment
7       Organization Chart - Water and Sewerage Board
3       Cash Flow Projections
9       Income Statement Projections
10       Balance Sheet Projections
11       Notes on Financial Statements and Projections
12       Principal Water Supply and Sewerage Charges
13       Guidelines for Establishing a Project Monitoring System
Map       Swaziland showing Project Towns (IBRD 11006)



SWAZILAND
APPRAISAL OF WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a water supply and sewerage project in
Mbabane, Swaziland's capital, in Manzini9 an industrial center, and in
Nhlangano, a small town. The total cost of the project, excluding interest
during construction, is estimated at US$4.5 million equivalent. The pro-
posed Bank loan of US$3.5 million would finance the project's foreign ex-
change costs as well as interest on the Bank loan during construction
estimated at US$0.5 million. The proposed loan would be the first Bank loan
for water supply and sewerage in Swaziland. The Borrower would be the
Government of Swaziland which would make the proceeds of the loan available
to the Water and Sewerage Board (WSB), a separate organizational unit within
the Ministry of Works, Power and Communications (NIPC) at an interest rate
of 8% per annum over 25 years, including a grace period of four years. The
remaining project costs would be substantially provided by internal cash
generation.
ii.       The principal project elements are water supply and distribution
facilities in Mbabane, Manzini and Nhlangano, and sewerage reticulation in
Nlbabane and Manzini. The water supply and sewerage facilities in Mbabane
and Manzini would provide the complementary facilities required to bring
the benefits of earlier primary investments in water storage and treatment
and in sewage treatment to the population. The water facilities in Nhlangano
are mainly required to meet the needs of the growing population, but will also
supply a textile mill to be established shortly.
iii.      Contracts for consulting services for detailed engineering and for
accounting services will be entered into between July 1, 1974 and the signing
of the proposed loan, and expenditures of up to US$150,000 for these services
would be financed retroactively from the Bank loan. Contracts for pipe,
equipment and civil works would be awarded on the basis of interna:-ional
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for Procurement.
iv.       WSB, a newly formed semi-autonomous Government department, will be
responsible for carrying out the project and for the operation of water sup-
ply and sewerage services in most of Swaziland's urban centers and some rural
villages. WSB will be financially accountable along commercial lines. As
the new organization's experience grows, it is expected that eventually it
will be turned into a public corporation.
v.        The tariff for water supply and sewerage services has recently been
substantially increased to a level which will cover the costs of providing
these services. Suitable provision has been made for the poorer consumers
by continuing to supply minimal water requirements at a low price. The tariff
is expected to cover WSB's debt service and operating expenditures and to
provide an initially small but increasing proportion of development funds.
The rate of return on combined water supply and sewerage assets is expected



- ii -
to increase from 4% in 1979, when the project assets become fully operational,
to 7% in 1982.
vi.       The financial return on investment wou]Ld be about 12%.  The economic
return on investment has not been estimated, but would undoubtedly be higher.
vii.      Agreement having been reached on the principal :issues, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$3.5 million equivalent for a term of 25
years, including a four-year grace period.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Swaziland has requested a Bank loan to help
finance a water supply and sewerage project in Mbabane and Manzini, Swaziland's
principal cities, and in Nhlangano, a small town.
1.02      The proposed loan would be the first to Swaziland for a water supply
and sewerage project. Finance for previous development has been provided
through British Government assistance and from commercial loans.
1.03      The project is the outcome of a 1972 British Government-financed
study on water supply and sewerage in Swaziland wl-hich was undertaken by Brian
Colquhoun and Partners, London, England. The report, in addition to estimat-
ing the long-term capital requirements for water supply and sewerage develop-
ment, also recommended institutional and financial reforms for the effective
management of a water supply and sewerage system, which would be greatly
enlarged in the future. Government accepted the principal recommendations of
the study and has made significant progress in implementing them.
1.04      The project would bring thle benefits of recent primary investments
in water abstraction, storage and treatment facilities at Mbabane and Manzini
to more people by providing the complementary distribution facilities. The
project also includes additions to the water supply facilities at Nhlangano
mainly to meet the needs of a growing population.
1.05      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consist-
ing of Messrs. E. Greenwood, R. Reekie and. M. Cuellar (consultant), which
visited Swaziland in February 1974. The findings were based on information
supplied by Government and by Government's consultants for the project, Messrs.
Brian Colquhoun, Hugh O'Donnell & Partners, and Messrs. Hawkins, Hawkins &
Osborn, both of Johannesburg, and the Mbabane office of Engineering Power
Development Consultants Limited, a British firm. The mission also used infor-
mation provided in the water supply and sewerage study referred to in para.
1.03.
II. THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Introduction
2.01      Swaziland is a small landlocked country covering an area of about
17,400 sq. km. It has borders with South Africa and Mozambique, and its
eastern border is about 65 km from the Indian Ocean. Swaziland has four
geographical regions running from north to south. From west to east the
regions are: the mountainous Highveld (5,200 sq. km), the Middleveld of
rolling grassland (4,700 sq. km), the Lowveld of Bushveld cultivation (6,200
sq. km) and the smallest of the four regions, the Lobombo plateau (1,300 sq.
km).  The llighveld is humid and near temperate, the Middleveld drier and
subtropical, while the Lowveld is subhumid and almost tropical.



- 2 -
2.02      Swaziland's population in 1973 has been estimated at 490,000, and
growing at about 3% per annum. About 80% of the population are fairly uni-
formly distributed in rural areas, but many men commute to town and large
scale plantations, leaving subsistence farming to the women. In recent years
there has been a growing migration from rural to urban areas. The largest
towns in Swaziland are Mbabane, the capital, with a population estimated at
25,000, and Manzini, an industrial center, with a population estimated at
26,000.
2.03      In 1972 the estimated GNP per capita was around US$260, but the
per capita income of most of the population is much less than this. The
modern sector of the economy has grown substantially. Sugar, iron ore,
woodpulp, asbestos and citrus fruits are significant exports. The tourist
industry is growing rapidly.
Technical Characteristics
2.04      Swaziland's rainfall is generally good, varying from an average
rainfall of  1,270 mm in the Highveld to 650 mm in the Lowveld.  There are no
significant porous formations, however, and consequently there is little
potential for groundwater use. Swaziland lias a number of rivers which flow
peren-nially across the country. The Komati and Great Usutu Rivers rise in
Soutlh Africa and the Umbuluzi and Ingwavuma in the Highveld.
2.05      Almost all water supplies are derived from surface water sources
and the main public supplies include full treatment. Until recently the
expansion of the systems barely kept pace with the increasing demand partic-
ularlv in Mbabane and Manzini.  In recent years, however, the water collection
storage and treatment facilities in these two systems have been substantially
expanded to cope with the anticipated demand in the near future and the
principal need now is expansion of the distribution systems.
2.)6     1Te only public sewerage systems in the country are in Mbabane and
in the Manzini/Natsapa/Kwaluseni area. In Mbabane the treatment works and out-
fall sewers are under construction and the principal need is; for expansion
of the collecting system. The Manzini treatment works requires improvement
and the provision of sewerage in Kwaluseni township is important. There
are no plans to provide any other public sewerage systems, and the scattered
nature of townships suggests that none will be needed in the near future.
Sector Organization
2.07      Prior to April 1, 1974 thiC Water Branchi of the Public Works Division
of MWPC was responsible for a broad range of activities relating to water and
sewage in Swaziland. These activities included pollution control, water usage
control and hydrological and meteorological studies which, from April 1, will
be carried out by the Water Resources Section of MWPC. From the same date
the newly formed WSB assumed responsibility for water supply and sewerage
services in the three main towns in which the project components are located
and in 12 small villages scattered throughout Swaziland. A few company towns
manage their own services.



- 3 -
2.08      The major effort in improving water supply and sewerage services
has been in the urban areas. Generally speaking these services have been well
managed although there may have been some overinvestment in capital works.
The development of rural supplies has lacked comprehensive planning, the res-
ponsibility being divided between Ministries. The Public Works Division of
MWPC is responsible for supplies to rural institutions such as schools and
training colleges and some small centers. The Community Development Depart-
ment, in response to community requests, assists in developing rural water
supplies and protecting springs, with communities being encouraged to provide
labor on a self-help basis. A minor part of WSB's work is expected to be the
provision of assistance to the Ministries in their rural water supply activities.
WSB will be reimbursed for the expense of their services.
III. THE PROJECT
Background
3.01      Mbabane, the capital of Swaziland, has grown rapidly during the last
Lwo decades from a somnolent village into a bustling, modern town. The Govern-
ment has undertaken major expansion of the water supply and sewerage facilities
with a combination of British Government financial assistance and short-term
commercial loans. These efforts have concentrated on the provision of the
major items, water and sewage treatment works, trunk mains and sewers and
service reservoiro. These works are substantially complete except for the
outfall sewer and sewage treatment works. Apart from the Mbabane trunk sewer,
which has been over-sized, the basis of design of the individual components
is reasonable, but the full benefit of these works cannot be obtained without
complementary expenditures. There is therefore a need for the extension of the
supply and sewer ge reticulation and the output of the water supply system
is restricted by the capacity of the raw water pumping stations and force main.
3.02      Tle water supply system of Nhlangano, Swaziland's third largest town
with a population of about 2,700, is capable of meeting little more :han the
needs of the present population. A textile mill to be established shortly
will increase population growth and will also need to be supplied with water.
3.03      Details of existing water supply and sewerage facilities in Mbabane,
Manzini and Nhlangano and the way in which they will be developed in the
project are given in Annex 1.
Description
3.04      A map of Swaziland is attached showing the location of the project
towns. The project, which consists of the bulk of the WSB's construction
program for 1975-77, includes:



-4-
Water Supply
(a)  Intake, pumping station and about 1-1/2 km of force main
in Mbabane;
(b)  about 5 km of primary main in Manzini;
(c)  intake, treatment works, about 9 km of force main and
two service reservoirs at Nhlangano;
(d)  about 40 km of small diameter distribution pipes in
the three towns.
Sewerage
(a) About 40 km of sewers in Mbabane and Manzini; and
(b) improvements to the Manzini sewage treatment works.
In addition, the project includes (a) services for devising and establishing
a commercially oriented financial and statistical information system, (b)
post-graduate training abroad for engineers and accountants, (c) training for
WSB's technicians, and (d) trucks and maintenance equipment.
Cost Estimates
3.05      The estimated costs of the project are summarized below and detailed
in Annex 2.
Emalangenis (000)                US$ (000)
Local   Foreign   Total      Local   Foreign   Total
Pipe and equipment             -         800      800        -      1,100    1,100
Civil works                    600      300       900        900      500    1,400
Subtotals                      600    1,100    1,700         900    1,600    2,500
Contingencies:  Physical       100       200      300        200      300       500
Price         300       300      600        400      500       900
Engineering                     -        300      300         -       400      400
Technical Assistance
and equipment                 -       100       100        -        200      200
TOTAL COST OF PROJECT        1,000    2,0C0    3,000       1,500    3,000    4,500
Interest on Bank loan
during construction                    300                          500
Total foreign exchange
to be financed by Bank              2,300                         3,500



-5-
3.06      The cost estimates were based on preliminary designs by the Water
Branch of MWPC and their consultants, and the unit prices were derived from
contracts covering similar type of work presently underway in Mbabane and
Manzini.  Physical contingencies of 15% for Mbabane and Manzini and of 20%
for Nhlangano were added for both materials and civil works. The higher
contingency for Nhlangano reflects the less advanced state of the design
and cost estimates and the fact that this town is quite isolated and that
the size and composition of the project is unlikely to attract keen interest
from contractors.
3.07      The base prices are estimated at February 1974 prices and the price
contingency allowqance is based on the increases shown in the following table:
Percentage Increases
Year                            Civil Works   Equipment & Materials
1974                                 18                14
1975                                  15               11
1976                                  12                7.5
1977                                  12                7.5
3.08      The estimate includes a figure equal to about 11% of the escalated
construction cost to cover engineering fees for preparation of final plans,
specifications, bidding documents and supervision of the work.
Procurement
3.09      All pipe and equipment supply and civil works contracts would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.  There is at present no local pipe
manufacturing, ai,,d it is expected that all the pipe and equipment required
for the project will be procured abroad. The construction contracts would
be combined as far as practicable, but bids will also be invited for compo-
nents of the packages. Most of the civil works contracts are likely to be
won bv locally based foreign contractors. There is a possibility that domestic
civil works contractors suitably qualified for preferential treatment in bid
evaluation may come into being in the near future. It was agreed during
negotiations that, subject to Bank and Government approval, any such firms
would be eligible for a 7-1/2% margin of preference.
Disbursement
3.10      Disbursement of loan funds which would be to cover estimated foreign
exchange costs would be on the following basis:
(a) 100% of foreign or 90% of local expenditures for pipes,
vehicles and equipment;
(b) 33% of the cost of civil works;



-6-
(c)  100% of the foreign cost and 90% of local expenditures for
consulting engineering services for preparing final plans,
specifications and bidding documents and supervision of
the work and for consultants services to provide accounting
assistance and technical training; and
(d) interest and other charges on the loan accrued on or
before December 31, 1977.
Disbursements would be fully documented. An estimated disbursement schedule
is given in Annex 3.
3211      Retroactive financing up to US$150,000 is proposed regarding pay-
ments made after July 1, 1974 to consulting engineers (up to US$100,000) for
preparation of final plans and for expenditures for accounting assistance (up
to US$50,000).
3.12      In the event of there being savings in the project, it is proposed
that tle unused balance of the loan would, subject to Bank approval, be used
to finance further extensions to the distribution system in Mbabane, Manzini
andl Nhlangano.
Administration and Supervision
3.14 13   WSB would be responsible for the administration of the Project but
would amploy the engineering consultants who prepared the preliminary designs
to prepare final plans, specifications and tender documents, evaluate bids
and supervise construction. WSB will employ Hawkins, Hawkins and Osborne
(South Africa) for the Mbabane part of the project; Brian Colquhoun, Hugh
O'Donnell and Partners (South Africa) for the Manzini part of the project;
and Engineering Power and Development Consultants (United Kingdom) for the
iNglangano part. These consultants are acceptable to the Bank and, during
negotiations, assurances were obtained that engineering consultants accept-
able to the Bank would continue to be employed for the duration of the project.
3.14      It is expected that final plans will be completed by early 1975
and construction by September 1977. The construction program is shown in
Annex 4.
Ecological Implications
3.15      The subsoil of the area is suitable for septic tanks in low density
developments only. The provision of sewers should markedly improve the
environment in the more densely populated areas by removing the liquid wastes
to the sewage treatment works. This is particularly important at Kwaluseni
which lies on the banks of the Little Usutu River, a short distance upstream
of the intake for the Manzini water supply. The improvement of the Manzini
sewage treatment works should reduce the quantity of polluting matter dis-
charged to the Mzimmeme River.



-7-
IV. JUSTIFICATION
Project Objectives
4.01      Government has recently made large primary investments for water
storage and treatment in Mbabane and for water storage, collection and treat-
ment in Manzini. The project expenditures, which consist largely of distri-
bution facilities, are urgently needed to bring the benefits of the earlier
investments to the population.
4.02      The project would provide improved water supply and sewerage facil-
ities to larger proportions of the population of Mbabane and Manzini and a
new source of water for Nhlangano to serve the increasing needs of the town.
In addition, by developing and strengthening the recently formed Water and
Sewerage Board, the Project should help to form a good base for the future
development of the sector and eventual extension of service throughout the
country (see paras. 5.03 and 5.05).
4.03      In Mbabane, sewage treatment facilities and trunk sewers are now
under construction. The project investment will provide the complementary
reticulation system. In the Manzini area, sewerage reticulation will be
provided in Kwaluseni and improvements will be made to the Manzini sewage
treatment works, which are now seriously overloaded.
4.04      At recent population growth rates, Nhlangano's water facilities
would be inadequate to meet its population's needs by 1976. A textile mill
shortly to be established will accelerate population growth. The project
facilities will mainly provide water for domestic users but, in addition,
it is expected that the textile mill will use about 20% of the water produced.
The textile mi-l will pay the industrial water rate, which is higher than
the residential rates and consequently will cover more than its share of
water costs.
Demand Forecasts
4.05      The last population census in Swaziland was in 1966.  It is thought
that the population growth rate may be as high as 3% per annum and there has
been a growing migration from rural to urban areas. The population growth
in Mbabane and Manzini is not known, but from available estimates it is
probably in the range of 6% to 9% per annum.
4.06      The increase in water production and consumption in the two main
towns has been very uneven. In Mbabane it has averaged 10% per annum between
1966 and 1970, and this rate has been used in the projections. In Manzini
the growth rate averaged 15% per annum from 1965 to 1968, but has since fallen
off to average about 12% per annum. The decline is expected to continue and
10% per annum has been used in the forecasts of future demands.



-8-
4.07      In Mbabane and >,Ianzini, the main project towns, recent Government
estimates indicate that 51% of the population are served with water through
house connections, 27% get water from standpipes and 22% do not have reason-
able access to the public system. In 1973 the average water consumption (on
total population) was about 35 gallons per capita per day. The strengthening
of the institution should enable WSB to expand its water supply operations
to progressively improve the level of service.
4.08      In 1973/74 it is estimated that only 7,725 people, or about 15% of
the population of Hbabane and Manzini, had connections to the public sewerage
system. By the project completion date about 26,000 people, or 35% of the
population, should have connections.
4.09      In Mbabane and Manzini, the bulk of the project expenditure on
water supply is for improvements and extensions to the distribution systems,
andi variations in the predicted growth of water consumption would not mate-
riallN affect the design.  The sewerage elements in the project are mainly
or the urovision of collecting sewers in existing and planned residential
areas. These works are largely self-contained and their design is relatively
insensitive to variations in growth rate.  The trunk sewers now under con-
struction have been over-sized and any likely variations in growth rate would
not require their duplication.
'.10     Nhlangano's population is estimated to be 2,700 and the growth
rate to he 8% per annum.  Tle growth in demand for water is estimated at 10%
Per annum to cover future population growth and increased per capita consump-
tion.  Additional estimates have been made for the textile factory's require-
enLts. Forecasts of population growth and water demand are dealt with in
more detail in Annex 5.
Financial Return on Investment
4.11      If the demand for water supplv and sewerage services grows as fore-
cast, the project would have a financial return on investment of about 12%.
An increase in project costs of 10%O would reduce the return to approximately
11, whlile a 10% lower growth in water sales would also reduce the return to
about 11 %. A combination of both these factors would produce a return of
about 10%. The rate of return is only marginally sensitive to variations in
operating costs. The basis of the calculations of the return on investment
is given in Annex 6.
4.12      The project benefits include those normally associated with water
supply and sewerage improvements, such as reduction in the incidence of water-
borne disease and elimination of public health hazards, aesthetic nuisances
and the need for private septic tanks and disposal arrangements. As many
of these benefits cannot be quantified, no attempt has been made to calculate
an economic rate of return for the project, but it will undoubtedly be higher
than the return on investment based on water sales alone.



-9-
V. THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARY
The Borrower
5.01      The borrower would be the Government of Swaziland who would make
the proceeds of the loan available to WSB, a separate organizational unit
within MWPC.
The Beneficiary
5.02      As noted in para. 2.07, prior to the establishment of WSB, water
supply and sewerage services were conducted by the Water Branch of MWPC.
This arrangement had a number of weaknesses. First, the prime management
responsibility for water supply and sewerage services seemed to rest largely
with the Director of Buildings and Works of MWPC who was at the same time
responsible for a whole range of other activities. Second, the Water Branch
of MWPC itself hiad a number of other functions in addition to water supply and
sewerage services. Third, there was a lack of an adequate financial and sta-
tistical information system for effective planning and control.  Fourth, capi-
tal expenditures were undertaken without adequate financial and economic
evaluation. Also, water supply and sewerage services were supplied at consid-
erably less than cost (possibly 40% less), and no systematic attempt was made
to ascertain the cost of providing these services.
5.03      The neTw organization should provide better management.  The senior
management level will be concerned solely with water supply and sewerage.
The accounting system will be commercially oriented and designed to provide
adequate financial and statistical data for planning purposes, and tariff
levels will be adequate to cover the cost of providing water supply and
sewerage services.
5.04      The new organization unit, the Water and Sewerage Board (WSB), is
responsible for water supply and sewerage in the urbari areas. In addition to
Mbabane, Manzini and Nhlangano, it is responsible for water supply in, 12 other
centers with a combined population of about 12,000. WSB, for which the pro-
posed organization chart is shown in Annex 7, will operate under regulations
known as the "Administration of the Water and Sewerage Board Special Fund
Regulations, 1974". During negotiations assurances were obtained that no
material modification of the Regulations will be made without Bank approval.
5.05      The legal instrument creating the new organization is generally
satisfactory.  The new organization will be headed by a Board of six, consis--
ing of four senior civil servants drawn from different Mlinistries, and two
otlher persons appointed by the Minister of Works, Power and Communications.
The Chairman of the Board will be MWPC's Permanent Secretary and the Secretary
to the Board will be WSB's Director.  A list of posts for the new organization
has been drawn up and is expected to be approved shortly. Apart from some of
the senior staff, most of the staff will be drawn from the Water Branch of
NNPC. Government envisages that the new organization, which will operate as
a commercial unit from April 1, 1974, will be an intermediate step prior to
the formation of a public corporation.



- 10 -
Management and Staff
5.06      The senior officer of the new organization will be the Director who
will have immediately responsible to him a Financial Controller.  The Director
and the Financial Controller recently took up their appointments. The Director
hlas specialist qualifications in hydraulics and water supply and has held a
number of senior management positions. Prior to joining WSB, the Financial
Controller held senior positions in financial management with an oil company.
Both the Director and the Financial Controller, who were appointed for three
years under UNDP programs, should be adequate for their positions. At nego-
tiations assurances were obtained that future appointments to the positions
of Director and of Financial Controller will be made only after consultation
with the Bank.
5.07      None of the financial controllers support staff are likely to have
comrmercial accounting experience. More importance than usual should there-
fore be attached to the role of the accounting consultants in establishing
the initial accounting procedures and systems so that, as far as possible,
these procedures and systems can be reduced to a routine (see para. 5.11).
5.08      There is a severe shortage of Swazi engineers and accountants and
it seems unlikely that WSB could attract local men of sufficient qualifications
and experience to occupy the senior positions for some years to come. Post-
graduate training abroad for engineers and accountants is provided for in the
project to help remedy this shortage. Training of technicians has been mainly
on-thie-job training supplemented by courses at the Swaziland Industrial Train-
ing Institute. The Institute is being expanded under an IDA project. An in-
spector of works from WSB has been sent to Canada for nine months' training.
A training component for technicians has also been included in the proposed
loan.
Accounting
5.09      For accounting purposes, Government will transfer existing water
supply and sewerage assets to WSB, partly in return for a debt obligation by
WSB to Government and partly as a capital contribution by Government (see
para. 6.03). Goverimnent will meet debt service obligations on existing debt
relating to water supply and sewerage from general revenues. These obligations
are a combination of short-term commercial loans and British program loans.
The value of the fixed assets as at March 31, 1974 has been established by
the consultants who prepared the study mentioned in para. 1.03.
5.10      The fixed asset valuation is based on historical cost and, although
a valuation based on replacement cost would have been better, the consultants'
valuation is satisfactory for the purpose of establishing the initial value
of assets for accounting purposes. It is likely that some of the assets
taken over were overdesigned and cost more than might have been the case if a
financial and economic appraisal had been made at the time the investment was
made. It would be difficult, however, to assess the extent. In addition,



- 11 -
the significance of the opening value of assets will decline as the project
and other capital additions add significantly to fixed asset values (see
paras. 6.06 and 6.10).
5.11      WSB will require assistance to establish the commercially oriented
accounting policies and procedures for the new organization, and provision is
included in the proposed loan for this assistance. These procedures will
cover the preparation of financial statements along generally accepted com-
mercial accounting principles, the recording of transactions, budgeting, and
the preparation of accounting and statistical information for management. In
addition, the accounting services will include such training of accounting
staff as is required and the training of senior staff in the use of management
information reports.  The proposed terms of reference for the firm to be
employed to provide accounting assistance have been submitted by the Govern-
ment to the Bank and are satisfactory.  During negotiations it was agreedi that,
as a condition of loan effectiveness, WSB should have employed accountants
acceptable to the Bank to provide the accounting assistance. Assurances were
obtained that, after discussions with the Bank, the consultants' recommendations
wiould be implemented promptly to the extent they were acceptable.
5.12    WSB carries out its oxn meter readings.  Billings and collections
for Hbabane and Manzini, WSB's principal revenue sources, however, are under-
taken by the two Town Councils, wiho after deducting a charge for collection
expenses, remit collections to WSB.. WSB considers that it could handle these
billings and collections more efficiently and discussions leading to this are
taking place.
Auditing
5.13      mWPC's accounts are audited by tle Auditor General of Swaziland.
The Auditor Gene.ra1's commitments are too heavy for hirm to take on the audit
of WSB's accounts.  Government suggested that the aiudit could be performed by
one of the large public accounting firms who 'have offices in Swaziland.  Dur-
ing negotiations, assurances were obtained that WSB's accousnts will be audited
by independent accountants acceptable to the Bank and that the audited accounts
will be provided to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
Risks
5.14      The major risk in the project lies in the possibility of inefficient
management of WSB. The top two posts are filled by expatriates. As noted in
para. 5.06 both the Director and the Financial Controller are being provided
by UNDP under technical assistance.  If UNDP should decide not to continue its
support on completion of their present contracts and the Government is unwill-
ing to pay salaries which would attract expatriates, it is unlikely that the
posts could immediately be filled as experienced Swazi engineers and accountants
are very scarce. Ilowever, it is hoped that the postgraduate training abroad
provided for in the loan (para. 3.04) will help to fill the long-term need
for Swazi engineers and accountants.



- 12 -
5.15      There is also a danger that water consumption and, therefore, WSB's
income will be less than predicted. A substantially increased water tariff
has recently been introduced and this may have the effect of depressing demand.
The poorer consumers will, however, be shielded from the increase (para. 6.08)
and the remaining consumers are not expected to be sufficiently sensitive
to price increases to have a material effect on demand, at least in the long
term.
5.16      The task of forecasting both revenues and expenses is more difficult
than usual because of the lack of comparable historical data, but both revenues
and expenses are believed to have been forecast on a conservative basis.
VI. FINANCE
Financing Plan
6.01      WSB's capital requirements during the project construction period,
FY1975 to FY1978 are E 5.5 million (USS8.3 million). Of this amount, 42%
would be financed by the proposed Bank loan, 42% by Government loans and
16, from WSB's own resources. This financing plan, which is taken from the
-etailed cash flow projections in Annex 8, is shown in the table below:
Millions of   Millions of
Application of Funds                             Emalangenis       US$       _
Cap ta__Expenditures
Project (excluding interest
during construction)                          3.0            4.5       54
Other                                           2.4            3.6       42
Additions to working capital                    0.1            0.2        4
Total Applications of Funds                     5.5            8.3      100
Sources of Funds
Internal cash generation                           2.0            3.0       36
Less: debt service                                 1.1            1.7       20
Net internal cash generation                       0.9            1.3        16
Borrowings (including interest financed
through borrowings)
IBRD loan                                          2.3            3.5       42
Government                                         2.3            3.5       42
Total Borrowings                                4.6            7.0       84
Total Source of Funds                           5.5            8.3      100



- 13 -
WSB's projected Income Statements and Balance Sheets are given in Annexes 9
and 10 and are commented on in paras. 6.10 to 6.12. Notes on the Financial
Statements and Projections are given in Annex 11.
6.02      It was agreed during negotiations that Government would make the
proceeds of the Bank loan available to WSB at an interest rate of 8X per annum
over 25 years, including a grace period of four years. Interest during con-
struction will be financed by adding it to the principal amount of WSB's
indebtedness to Government. Other loans from Government to WSB for construc-
tion between FY 1975 and FY 1978 and for assets initially acquired by WSB (see
para. 6.03) will be on similar terms.
6.03      It was also agreed during negotiations that WSB would take over
water supply and sewerage fixed assets in service (excluding work in progress)
at a valuation of E 2.8 million (US$4.2 million). In return for this, WSB
would assume a debt service obligation to Government on E 1.5 million (US$2.4
million), leaving the residual value of assets taken over by WSB (including
work in progress) to be treated as a Government capital contribution. WSB
will not take over any Government liabilities for loans for capital expend-
itures as these obligations are in the form of short-term commercial and
British program loans not related to the life of the assets being financed.
For accounting purposes, WSB will be deemed to have commenced operations on
April 1, 1974.
Tariffs
6.04      As noted in para 5.02, the cost of water supply and sewerage services
cannot be determined from Government accounts. These accounts are on a cash
basis, and neither adequately distinguish capital and recurrent expenditures
nor adequately identify the separate costs of these activities. However, it
is quite clear that the revenues from water supply and sewerage services
were much less than the cost of providing the services.
6.05      Government intends that WSB's financial operations shall be con-
ducted along commercial lines with adequate cost data being prepared, and
that a reasonable rate of return on capital employed shall be obtained. To
achieve this objective, Government accepted the expense-based tariff recom-
mendations of the British-financed study on water supply and sewerage in
Swaziland and introduced a new tariff from April 1, 1974. The new tariff is
shown in Annex 12. To ensure an adequate contribution towards its capital
expenditure program during the construction period, WSB agreed to maintain an
operating ratio I/ of not more than 55 between FY1976 and FY1978. After con-
struction completion, to ensure that tariffs are maintained at a level suffi-
cient to cover operating expenditure, debt service and part of the cost of
capital expenditures, a minimum rate of return on the combined average water
supply and sewerage net fixed assets, as revalued annually, of 4% for 1979,
1/ For this purpose, operating ratio is defined as:
Operating Costs (excluding depreciation) x 100)
Operating Revenues



- 14 -
5% for 1980, 6% for 1981 and 7% thereafter was agreed at negotiations.
Given the cost increases and asset revaluations assumed for the construction
period, FY1975 to FY1978, a 20% tariff increase would be necessary in FY1979
to achieve these rates of return and such an increase has been assumed in
the financial projections.
6.06      It was agreed at negotiations that in order to take into account
rising asset replacement costs, fixed assets would be revalued annually based
on an index to be agreed between Government and the Bank. Government will
submit its proposal to the Bank before the end of 1974. In the financial
projections in this report, assets have been revalued by 15% in FY1975, by
12% in FY1976, and by 10% in FY1977 and FY1978.
6.07      Prior to recent changes, water charges were based on metered con-
sumption, but the tariff structure and level varied from town to town.
Charges varied from E 0.25 to E 0.75 per thousand I gal. (US$0.32 to US$0.93
per thotusand US gal.).  No charges were made for Government and public stand-
pipe consumption. Sewerage charges were low and formerly based on the number
of snecified fittings in properties connected to the system.
6.08      The new water tariff is expected to yield an average rate of E 0.85
per thlousand I gal. (US$1.00 per thousand US gal.). This is among the highest
rates in Southern Africa, 1/ partly because the Swazi towns are so small and
oartlv because most of the investment has been relatively recent. Domestic
rates for water supplied through home connections are in the form of an in-
creasing block charge, however, with minimum water requirements provided at
a reduced rate. There will be no direct charge by WSB to consumers for water
supplied through standpipes (see para. 6.09). Industrial and commercial rates
are E 1.00 per thousand I gal (US$1.25 per thousand US gal). For properties
connected to the sewerage system there will be a surcharge of EO.50 per thousand
I gal (US$0.62 per thousand US gal) of water consumption. WSB has the legal
power to compel water users to connect to the sewage system where there is a
public sewer available.
6.09      Government has agreed that it will pay WSR for water supply and
sewerage services at industrial and commercial rates. Provision has been
made in Government departmental estimates for such payments.  Payment for
standpipe water consumption will be made to WSB through the Ministry of Local
Administration at the lowest tariff rate or E 0.50 per thousand I gal (US$
0.62 per thousand US gal.). Charges to the communities concerned, if any,
will be made by the 'Ministry.  The foregoing arrangements were confirmed at
negotiations.
1_/ Average water rates in some other cities in Africa are about:
Gaborone, Botswana                 (US$1.00 per thousand US gal)
Johannesburg, South Africa         (US$0.40 per thousand US gal)
Nairobi, Kenya                    (US$0.76 per thousand US gal)



- 15 -
Future Operating Results and Financial Position
6.10      In the 8-year period from FY1975 to FY1982, the volume of water
supply and sewerage services are expected to about double with more than
proportionate increases in money revenues. Internal cash generation is ex-
pected to increase from E 0.43 million in FY1975 to E 1.19 million during the
same period.  By 1982, WSB's fixed assets are expected to increase about 3-1/2
times in real terms. The rate of return on net fixed assets will decline from
10.7% in 1975 to 4% in 1979, when the project becomes completely operational,
but the rate is expected to increase to 7% by FY1982 as the project and earlier
capital outlays become more fully utilized.
6.11      Although the demand for water supply and sewerage services has been
conservatively estimated, there is nevertheless a possibility, especially
during the project construction period, that revenues may fall short of es-
timates.  This revenue shortfall could arise because of a significant drop in
water consumption caused by an immediate, but probably temporary, consumer
reaction to the recent large tariff increase. Unless tariffs were increased,
this would mean that Government would probably have to provide additional
development funds by way of loans.
6.12      Proposed guidelines for a project monitoring system, which are
presented in Annex 13, were discussed at negotiations with WSB's newly appointed
Director.  After 'ie has had an opportunity to assess WSB's performance poten-
tial, the monitoring indicators will be quantified in consultation* with the
Bank.
Calital Expenditures and Debt Service
6.13      After the incurrence of the project debt, debt should represent about
72% of the capital emiployed by WSB.  This is a ratlher high debt/equity ratio
but is acceptable with appropriate safeguards on additional debt incurrence.
The debt service coverage will improve from 1.4 in FY1979 to a satisfactory
level of 2.0 by FY1932.
6.14      To ensure that WSB maintains a sound financial structure, future
borrowings should be related to its ability to service debt.  At negotiations
it was agreed that htSB will not incur further debt without the Bank's consent
unless net income before interest and depreciation is at least 1.5 times
future (debt service, including debt service on the proposed new borrowings.
It was also agreed that, during the project construction period, WSB will
submit its proposedl annual capital expenditure program to the Bank for approval
prior to the conmmencement of each financial year.



- 16 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      A principal point of agreement at negotiations was that tariffs
would be set at a level so as to yield a minimum rate of return on the com-
bined water supply and sewerage net fixed assets of 4% for 1979, 5% for 1980,
6% for 1981 and 7% thereafter. (para 6.05)
7.02      It was also agreed at negotiations that, as a condition of effective-
ness of the loan, IWSB should have employed accountants acceptable to the Bank
for establishing the accounting system and training staff (para. 5.11).
7.03      On the basis of the agreements reached, the project is suitable for
a Bank loan of US$3.5 million equivalent for a term of 25 years including a
four-vear grace period.
Sctcber 21, 1974



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4
SWAZILAND
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Descriptions of Existing Water Supply and Sewerage Facilities and Project in
Nlbabane, Manzini and Nhlangano
Mbabane Water Supply
Mbabane is served by two water treatment plants. The older one,
built in 1953, has a capacity of 0.5 Imgd but the throughput is limited to
0.3 Imgd at times of high turbidity in the raw water. Because of the limi-
tations of the sources, the Polinjane and Mbabane Rivers, further expansion
of this plant is not economic.
The main treatment plant at Woodlands, which is nearing completion,
has rapid gravity filters following a clarifloculator. It has a capacity of
2.5 Imgd and phased expansion to 14.5 Imgd is envisaged. The raw water force
main from the Black Mbuluzi River has a capacity of only 1 Imgd. Prolonged
dry weather river flows of about 2.5 Imgd have been recorded, of which 0.5
Imgd has to be discharged for downstream use. A storage reservoir will be
needed within the next few years to increase the reliable yield of the river.
The dam site has now been selected.
The distribution system has six service reservoirs with a combined
capacity of 4.4 Imgd and covers about 70% of the developed urban area.
The project includes building a pumping station on the Black
Mbuluzi River, housing two 1.5 Imgd pumps, one of which will be a standby unit.
From the pumping station a 1400-m long, 300-mm diameter force main will be
laid to the Woodlands treatment plant, supplementing the existing main so as
to obtain full use of the installed treatment plant capacity.
About 9.5 km of 75-mm to 250-mm diameter pipe will be laid in ex-
tensions of the distributing network in Fonteyn and Sidwashini which have
a present population of about 2,800 and a future population of about 4,500.
Mbabane Sewerage
The first public sewerage system was built in 1960 and consisted
of a treatment plant with a capacity of 0.85 Imgd plus reticulation for the
central commercial area.
With the extension of the reticulation system, which now serves
about 50% of the developed urban area, the treatment plant is too small,
overloaded and not very suitable for Swaziland conditions. A new trunk sewer
and oxidation ponds in the Msunduza valley are under construction. The trunk
sewer is very conservatively designed and will have much spare capacity. The



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4
ponds will have a treatment capacity of about 0.3 Imgd and will need to be
uprated within the next few years, perhaps by recirculation of effluent or
the addition of aerators.
The project includes the extension of the western outfall and the
sewerage reticulations for Msunduza and areas discharging to the western
outfall.
The western outfall is designed to serve all the urban areas located
on the Nbabane River watershed. The lower part of the outfall is under con-
struction and the Project contemplates the construction of the remaining part,
with a length of about 4 km of 300-to-375-mm diameter pipe.
MIsunduza is the higher density residential area of Mbabane, with
a population of about 6,000. About 20% of this area is presently sewered and
the Project includes the construction of two small pumping stations and about
17 km of mainly 150-mm sewers in the remaining 80% of the area, and a 1200-mm
outfall to the oxidation ponds now under construction.
The completion of the western outfall will allow the sewer reticula-
tion to be extended to all the residential areas on the Mbabane River water-
shed. The Project includes the reticulation of only the more highly developed
of these areas with a population of about 4,000 people, and will require a
total length of about 13 km of mostly 150-mm diameter pipe.
Mtanzini Water Supply
M'anzini is served by a water treatment plant on the Mzimmene and
Little Usutu rivers.
The MIatsapa treatment plant, which is fed from the Little Usutu
river, incorporates rapid gravity filters and has recently been increased in
capacity to 2.5 Imgd. Treated water is pumped to two service reservoirs, one
serving the industrial area and the other, near the airport, serving the
Manizini area.  From the Airport Road Reservoir, water gravitates through
twin mains to Nazarene Reservoir and from there to the Stegi Road Reservoir.
The main between the latter two reservoirs is already insufficient and dupli-
cation is required to enable the reticulation system to be extended.
About 6nY' of the developed area is served by the distribution net-
work.
The project includes the construction of about 5 km of 400-mm dia-
meter main between the Nazarene and Stegi Road reservoirs and about 19 km of
100-mm to 200-mm pipes in extensions to the distribution network. The areas
to be served have an estimated present population of 3,800.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
Outside Yanzini the Project includes the reticulation of Kwaluseni,
which is a high densitv area located on Swazi Government land between Manzini
and Matsapa, with a population of about 3,000 people.  Most of the housing
is of rather durable construction and, because of the high density, a primi-
tive street pattern has already been developed.
The first stage of the Kwaluseni reticulation needed to serve the
present population will require about 6 km of 75-mm to 100-mm diameter pipes.
Manzini Sewerage
Manzini is served by two sewerage systems. The smaller, serving
Zakhele township, discharges to oxidation ponds capable of treating about
40,000 Ig per day, which is adequate for Zakhele's immediate needs.
The larger system, which serves the city center and main residential
areas, except low-density areas which are adequately served by septic tanks,
also discharges to oxidation ponds. These ponds are heavily overloaded and
pollute the Mtzimmene river, whose dry weather flow is about equal to the
effluent discharged from the ponds. There is no land available at the present
site for expansion of the pond system.
The consultants proposed that these ponds should be replaced by a
conventional trickling filter treatment plant and some of the ponds would be
retained for polishing the effluent. This expenditure does not appear to be
justified and expenditure under the project would be limited to improvement
of the oxidation ponds by the addition of mechanical aerators with some deep-
ening of the ponds where this can be done at low cost.
About 15 km of collecting sewers would be laid in Kwaluseni.
The Matsapa industrial complex is served by a separate sewerage
system which discharges into a series of oxidation ponds. The ponds were
expanded in 1973 and amply serve the immediate needs of ITatsapa.
Nhlangano Water Supply
The existing water supply, whiich is fed from a small artificial
lake, has a capacity of about 0.2 lmgd and cannot economically be extended.
The distribution svstem covers about 70% of the developed area but consists
of very small pipes and requires considerable reinforcing. A new source is
required to meet the expanding needs of the town whose population growth is
expected to increase sharply because of employment opportunities created by
a new textile mill.
The project includes a new water supply system with a capacity of
0.8 mgd with an intake on the tkondo River from which water will be pumped
to a new treatment works, with sedimentation tanks and rapid gravity filters.
From there treated water will be pumped about 9 km through a 300-mm force
main to two small service reservoirs, one located at the textile mill and



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
the other near the town. About 6.5 km of 75-mm and 150-mm pipe will be laid
in extensions to the town's distribution system.
Technical Assistance and Equipment
This component of the project includes:
(a) Consulting Services. Accounting Services to devise
a commercially oriented financial and management ac-
counting reporting system together with underlying
records and procedures and the training of senior
staff in use of managerial information and, if re-
quired, the training of accounting staff;
(b) Repair and Maintenance Equipment. Acquisition of
two fully equipped maintenance trucks, a meter test-
ing bench and small items of equipment;
(c)  Training.  Provision has been made for training three
engineers and two accountants at post graduate level;
also for the engagement of foreign technicians to
train WSD technical personnel in operation and
maintenance techniques.
August 7, 197T



ANNEX 2
Page i of 2
SWAZILAND
W,ATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Cost Estimate
Emalangenis (Thousands)    UJS  ThoIts,ands)
Local   Foreizn   Total   Lccal  irei,n  Total
TWATER SUPPLY
Mbabane Force Main and Pumping Station        3744               1@8       51       111    lt
Mbabane Reticulation                          24         )0c      614      36        60     o6
Manzini Reticulation                           55       103      158       83       15-1   237
Manzini Compensation Main                     38        116      15L4      57       '77    2
Kwaluseni Reticulation                        20         13       33       30        2i'    I0
Nhlangano Intake and Force Mains               67       180      2l47     101       270    3-?
NShlangano Water Treatment Plant               19        64       83       29        96    1
Nhlangano Reservoirs                          13         50       63       19        75     A
Nhlangano Reticulation                        16         34       52       27        51     71
Sub-total (lWater Supply)                             62                       1,071 TV  74
SETWERAGE
Mbabane lWestern Outfall Extension             45         55     100       68        12    1>
Mbabane Reticulation                         210        207      417      3'7       J10    8
Kwaluseni Reticulation                        93         98      191
Manzini Sewage Treatment Plant                 13        37       5o       20        ,
Sub-total (Sewerage)                       361        307      77T 77T 77
Contingencies:  PhysicaJ/                    100        180      280      150      27c    2'0
Price _                     273        3514     627     410       <31 9I    '
Engineering  /                                -         290      290       -133   1431
Technical Assistance and Equipment            -          90       90       -        13     135
TOTAL COST                    1,022      1,985   3,007   1,535    2,976  1i,511
21 See Page 2.
2/ Engineering costs have been estimated at 11% of the escalated construction costs.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
Cost Estimate
ProraM of Expenditure
(Thousands of Emalangeriis)
Year Ending March 31                             1976           1977          1978
Mbabane
Raw water force main                             33             71             4
Water reticulation                               30             30              4
Sewer outfall extension                          51             45              4
Sewer reticulation                               53            269            95
MaEzifli
Water reticulation                               24            159              8
Compensation main                                30            119             5
Sewer reticulation                               55            118            18
Sewage treatment plant                           10             40            -
Nhlangano
Intake and force mains                           40            191            16
Water treatment plant                            -              80              3
Reservoirs                                                      60             3
Water reticulation                               -              49             3
Sub-totals                                   326         1,231            163
Contingencies:  Physical /                       30            230            20
Pricer                          91            474             62
Engineering                       80            100             75            35
Technical assistance
and equipment                   44             36             10            -
TOTALS                        1               X          22020            280
g/ 15% of construction costs except for Nhlanganc where 20% was used.
/ Base prices relate to February 1974 and the price contingency allowance is
based on the following increases:
Percentage Increases
Year                  Civil Works     Equipment and Materials
1974                      18                     14
1975                      15                     11
1976                      12                      7.5
1977                      12                      7.5
1978                      12                      7.5



ANNEX 3
SWAZILAND
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements for IBRD Loan
IBRD                        Cumulative Disbursements
Fiscal Year                      at end of Quarter                 Cumulative
and Quarter                         US$ (000)                      Percentage
1975
December 31, 1974                       50                              2
March 31, 1975                         100                              3
June 30, 1975                          185                              5
1976
September 30, 1975                     250                              7
December 31, 1975                      310                              9
March 31, 1976                         655                             18
June 30, 1976                          905                             25
1977
September 30, 1976                   1,890                             54
December 31, 1976                    2,56o                             73
March 31, 1977                       2,790                             79
June 30, 1977                        2,210                             83
1978
September 30, 1977                   3,210                             92
December 31, 1977                    3,260                            93
March 31, 1978                       3,280                             94
June 30, 1978                        3,500                           100
Note:
The expenditure program detailed in Annex 2 is based on the appraisal
mission's estimated construction schedule (shown in Annex 4). In
view of the generaJ.ly poor record of disbursements in Bank projects,
however, a delay of one quarter has been built into the above schedule.
May 2!, 19Th



SWAZILAND
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
1974                       1975                                  1976                                 1977
PROJECT COMPONENTS
3rdQ     4thO     1 stO    2ndO    3rdQ       4thQ      1 stQ    2ndQ    3rdO      4thQ      1 stO    2ndQ      3rdQ     4thQ
MBABANE
Raw water force main   *e.""l *muume    *uleu_   WAW
Water reticulation     essse1 ss1 esssses isem         A___
Sewer outfall extension neeeeei4eemnee ..v_
Sewer reticulation     Ehlhhll II_ i_
MANZINI
Water reticulation    II 11111IIeIsIU   logiWn.,
Compensation main    ishimmi. Pmuuuuh  NIeIReWAW                                     -11
Sewer reticulation    imuimmu  Imm u  m_ loin                       e
Sewage Treatment Plant emmemueemgemss u eseeee       _w_
NH LANGANO
Intake & force mains eseeeee e      eeees _ |
Water treatment plant   *Ieeee 4         eesesee m_ _i                   -                 -        -
Reservoirs             1111 *EuI *hmhehu *                           -
Water reticulation    fUml[111  111111" g I l _I         J     _        _-
SYMBOLS:
ehseeeeel Preparation of final design, specifications and bidding documents
___ Bidding analysis and contract award
Construction
World Bank-8636



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 5
SWAZILAND
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Notes on Population and Demand Forecast
Population
The last census in Swaziland was in 1966 when the population was
375,000. The 1972 population was estimated in the Government's Second
National Development Plan at 480,000. It is thought that the population
growth rate may be as high as 3% per annum.
Ybabane, Manzini and Nhlangano have grown much more rapidly than
this and, although precise estimates of population growth are lacking, suf-
ficient is known to indicate a substantial population growth. The increase
has come about through the growth of government, industry and a general drift
from rural to urban areas in addition to natural population growth. A rough
estimate of recent population growth in the three towns is 5% per annum.
WSB's operations serve a population of about 60,000. Of this number
about 25,000 live in Mbabane, the Government center and capital of Swaziland,
about 26,000 in Manzini, Swaziland's main industrial center, and the rest in
12 towns or villages of which Nhlangano, with a population estimated at
2,300, is the largest. The rest of Swaziland's population of around 420,000
is fairly uniformly dispersed over rural areas.
Water Production and Consumption
The rate of annual increases in water production and consumption
in lbabane and Yanzini have by no means been evenly paced and from available
historical data only it is difficult to form a judgment as to future demand.
No separate statistics are available on the growth of industrial and commer-
cial demand as distinct from domestic demand.
Hawkins, Hawkins & Osborn (HHO), a South African firm, in a 1971
report on a water scheme for Mbabane, put the average demand growth for water
between 1958 and 1966 at 12-1/2% per annum. In 1967, the growth in demand
declined to 6% and in 1969, a wet year, H1O reported that there was hardly any
increase in demand over the previous year. The average growth in demand be-
tween 1966 and 197() was 10% per annum. This percentage has been judged to
be the most probable demand growth rate and covers estimated population growth,
increased water demand per capita and growth in industrial consumption. The
1972 Colquhoun report estimated Mbabane's future water demand growth at 12%
per annum.



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 5
In l'anzini, development has taken place in road, rail and air com-
munications in recent years in addition to which a number of industries have
been established in the industrial area known as Matsapha, including a brewery
and a variety of light industries. In 1969 in a report on the Matsapha water
supply, HHO stated that demand growth in the early sixties was 20% for two
years, followed by a decline in growth; between 1965 and 1968 the compound
growth rate was 15%.  4HO considered a 15% annual growth rate was appropriate
to 1975.  Colquhoun, in their 1972 report, forecast a 15% growth rate.  How-
ever, there are recent indications that the growth has dropped and it is be-
lieved that future development will not be relatively as great as in the past.
Therefore, a probable growth rate of 10% has been judged as appropriate. Re-
cent Government estimates for Mbabane and Manzini indicate that about 51% of
the combined populations were served by house connections,, 26% by standpipes
and 233% by other sources such as wells. This pattern varies very little be-
tween the two cities. Average daily water consumption is around 35 gallons
per day.
A demand growth of 10% has been used for Nhlangano; in addition a
further estimate has been made for water consumption by the newly established
textile factory.
Revenues
In projecting revenues based on the demand forecasts, average rev-
enues for 1babane, Mlanzini and Nhlangano have been arrived at based on esti-
tiates of water consumption by consumer class.  In Mbabane and Manzini, it has
been assumed that the average revenues would decline slightly as water sales
in the lower tariff range increased. Detailed revenue calculations are shown
in pages 4 and 5 of this annex.
Unaccounted-for Water
This has been estimated at 15% of production. Water Branch records
indicate losses of between 12% and 16%' in Mbabane and Manzini; this is com-
mendable and cannot easily be improved. The figure for Nhlangano may be
higher as tniversal metering has only recently been adopted.
Water Connection Fees
Connections are assumed t^ increase by 4% per annum with an average
connection fee of F. 45.
Sewerage
The projected use of sewerage services is based on a percentage of
water consumption. Prior to the implementation of the proj,ect, it is estimated
that 40% of Mbabane's water consumption was sewered and 52% of Manzini's.  It
is estimated for both towns that, based on an estimate of the progress of the
constrtuction program, the percentage of water consumption sewered will in-
crease to about 60% and then remain at this level.



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 5
Sewer Connection Fees
Connection fees are assumed to be E 50 for low income connections
and E 150 for others. Projected additions to connected properties are based
on estimates of future development.



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 5
SWAZILAND
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
WATER AND SEWERAGE BOARD
Water Supplz Revenue Estimates
Production                                            Consumption
(millions of I Gallons)                               (millions of I Gallons)
Other                                                 Other
FY_V         Mbabane   Manzini   Nhlangano   Towns    Total         Mbabane   Manzini   Nhlangano   Towns    Total
1975           >91       450          67         97     1005         333        383          57        82       855
1976           1430      496          73       102      1101         366        421         62         87       936
1977          1473       545          87        109     12114        403        463          74        92      1032
1978          520        600         101       116      1337         4142       510           7        98      1137
1979          573        660)        117       123      1473         1487       560         100       105      1252
1980          630        726         133        132     1621         536        617        113        112      1378
1981          696        798         143       140      1777         591        678        122        119      1510
1982           766       878         154       149      1947         651        746        130        127      1654
BILLINGS (thousands of Emalangenis)
Total
Other    Water      Connection
Mbabane              Manzini      Nhlangano  Towns    Sales          Fees           Total    Estimated
Average             Average                                         Number              Gross    Uncollec-        Net
Price               Price                                            of              Revences      tible      Revelues
1/        per                 per                                           Connec-  E's         E's                      E's
FT-       Thous. Ig  Sales   Thous. Ig  Sales                                   tions   (000)       (000) L                  (000)
1975        0.85      283       0.88      337        46        65      731       2997      4         735         18           717
1976        0.84      307        0.87     366        50         68     791       3116      5         796         19           777
1977        0.83      333       0.86      398        60         72     863       3240      5         868         22           846
1978        0.82      362       0.85      433        70        75      940       3369      5         91L5        23           922
1979        0.96      473       1.00      565        97        95    1230        3503      6        1236         30          1206
1980        0.96      514       1.00      614       113       101    1342.       3643      6        1348         33          1315
1981        0.94      561       0.98      667       120       105    1453        3788      6        1459         35          1424
1982        0.94      609        0.97     725       130       110    1574        4098       6       1580         37          1543
1/ Average tariff increase of 20% assumed in 1979.



SWAZILAND
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
WATER AND SEWERAGE BOARD
Sewerage Revenue Estimates
Mbabane                                Manzini
Total                Billings                                 Billings                              Estimated
Water     % of          at      Total Water        %  of         at                                 Uncollec-
Consump-  Water Con- E0o50 1/   Consumption         Water       E0O50 1/   Connection       Total       tible        Net
FY       tion  IMg                                                                       Fees                    2-1/2%      Revenues
1975        333         40          66          382            52            99           20           185          5          180
1976        365         43         78           421            58           116           42           236          6          230
1977        401         48          96          463            60           139           42           277          7          270
1978        441         55        121           509            60           152           26           299          8          291
1979        486         60        174           561            60           201           25           400         10          390
1980        535         60        192           617            60           222           25           439         13          426
1981        591         60        213           679            60           244           25           482         13          469
1982        651         60        234            746           60           268           25           527         15          512
1/ Average tariff increase of 20% assumed in 1979.
0
October 21, 1974                                                                                                               V



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3
SWAZILAND
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Notes on Calculation of Return on Investment
1)        The return on investment on the project is about 12%.  The return
on investment on the water project alone is 16% while the return on investment
on the sewerage pro,ect is 4%.
2)        Incremental revenues and costs are at constant prices; therefore,
price contingencies are excluded from capital costs.
3)        In calculating return on investment, benefits have been taken as
the incremental revenues earned as a consequence of the project; capital and
operating costs include incremental costs relating to the project and further
capital and related operating costs necessary to bring the project facilities
to full utilization.
4)        Incremental water supply revenues are estimated at E 0.80 per thousand
Ig. and incremental sewerage revenues at E 0.50 per thousand Ig.
5)        Annual incremental expenses have been estimated as follows:
Operation and general                 Maintenance
Water           E 0.18 per thousand Ig             1% of capital costs
Sewerage        E 0.08 per thousand Ig             0.5% of capital costs
6)        If non-financial benefits were included in the return on investment
the return would probably be much higher. This is especially the case for the
sewerage project where many of the benefits, such as improved health condi-
tions, cannot be quantified.
7)        The return on investment would fall to about 11% with a 10% increase
in project costs, and also to 11% if projected revenues declined by 10. The
return on investment would be 10% with a combination of these circumstances.



SWAZIkiU
WATER SUPPLY AlD SEWERAGE PROJECT
Returr on Investirient - W^.ater Supply and Sewerage Combined
(Thousands of Eaalangenis)
Year LrlEin  Karol- 31    1975   1976   1977   1M78   179   19&0   19P'   15C2   1983   19P4   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991-20D6
Incremental Revenues               -        r    -       201    286    364    414    479    546    591    603    614    626    639    652    659
Tncreirental Costs
Canix tal
Project                123    6492  1,564    218       -      -
Other                   -       -       -      16      3       's9    13      12       P      3       3      1       1       1      -      _       _
Recurrent
Operation and General  -        -       10     27      67      f,     *9    102    119    136    167    150    153    156    159    163    165
Maintenance             -      _         S     24      24      24     224    26    ?21       24      26     24      24      24      24     24      24
Total Incremental
Costs           123    692  1,562    285    105    142    126    138    1,.    163    174    175    178    181    183    187    189
lqet Cash Flow            -123   -492 -1,507   -161       99    14'    23P    276    328    383    417    420    436    445    456    465    470
RETUIER o0. PNVESTMEIT   12.16%
0'
k.>)



SWAZILAID
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Return on Investment - Sewerage
Year Ending March 31                       195   1976   1977   1978              1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985         1986-2006
Incremental Sewerage Quantities (IMg)        -       -      58    100    121    130    137    144    152    160    166            172
Thousands of Emalangenis -- --------- - __         - _   - - - -- - _
Incremental Sewerage Revenues                -       -      29      50      60     65      68     72      76      80     83        86
Incremental Costs
Capital
Project                                   44    237    608    130       -       -       -      -       -       -      - _
Other                                     -      -    -        -          2      2       2      2       2       2       2       -
Recurrent
Operation and General                     -      -        4       8       9     11      11     12      12      13     13        13
Maintenance                                               8       8       8      8       8      8       8       8       8        8
Total Incremental Costs                  44      23       0    f197             21      21      22     22      23      23        21
Net Cash Flow                              - 4  -237   -591  -96           41   -        -T         0 50    547          5 60       65
RETURN ON INVESTMENT   3.83%
Return on Investment - Water Supp1y
191-
Year Ending March 31                       1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985  1986   1987   1988   1989   1990  2QQ
Incremental Water Quantities (IMg)                  -       32     92    180    276    370    428    504    582    635   647    661    675    691    708   717
--------------- Thousands of ]malangenis- ------------ ----------- --------------------------                                --
Incremental Water Revenues                   -       -       26     74    144    221    296    342    403    466    508   517    528    540    553    566   573
Incremental Costs
Capital
Project                                   79    255    936       88      -      -       -       -      -       -       -     -       -
Other                                     -       -      -       16      32     47      11      10     6        1       1     1       1       1     -       -      -
Recurrent                                                                                                                                                            S
Operation and  General                    -       -       6      19      38     58      78      90    107    123    134   137    140    143    146    150  152 n D
Maintenance                               _       -      -       16      16     16      16      16     16      16      16    16      16      16      16     16   16 
Total Incremental Costs                         27      942      1       86          121 102                  16 0 129  1  -1-57    =     7         =     -1Ti 7      -1om
Net Cash Flow                               -79   -255   -916    -65        58    0o0    191    226    274    326    357   363    371    380    391    400  405
RETURN ON INVESTMENT   15.95%
May 24, 1974



SWAZI LAND
WATER AND SEWERAGE BOARD
Organization Chart
BOARD OF
MANAGEMENT
DIRECTOR
OFFICER                                                 SENIOR ENGINEER                    ENGINEER                   ENGINEER                   ENGINEER
FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION                                OPERATION & MAINTENANCE            CONTRACTS                  CONSTRUCTION               DESIGN & PLANNING
IIII IWATER    SEWERIA LABORATORYIIGINEE
L ACCOUNTS   I PERSONNELI  I TRANSPORT I  I  STORES   |   |  ENGINEER  |  | ENGINEER          CHEMISTANT
|MAINTENANCE
OPERATION  11111 REPAIRS    *****  OPERATION                                    CONSTRUCTION
UNIT            UNITUNTNI
Wo,Id Baok-9141 l



SWAZILAND                                          ANNEX 8
WJATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
WATER AND SEiERAGE BUARD
CASH FLOW PROJECTIONS
(Thousands of Ehalangenis)
1975   1976   1977   1978   197          1979   1980   1981   1982
SOURCES
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION
Operating Income                          337    330    265    178        1110      455    540    633    728
Depreciation                               98    157    262    361         878      424    438    451    469
Internal Cash Generation                         T27    $39                9        879    9 73           1197
BORROWING (including interest
financed from loans)
Loan IBRD                                 128    500   1368    305        2301       -       -      -       -
Loan Government                           484    418    972    425        2299
Total Borrowings                                  912     230    730      w          -      -             -
OTHER SOURCES
Change in Current Liabilities              30      14      13    114        71       10      11     10      13
TOTAL SOURCES                         1077   1419   2880   1283        6659      889    989   1094   1210
APPLICATIONS
CONSTRUCTION
IBRD Project
Water Supply                         79    300   1215    100        1694       -                     _
Sewerage                             44    283    805    180       1312
Other
Water Supply                        5514    434    415    290       1693      150    150    225    300
Sewerage                            254    156      80    180        670     150    150    225    300
Interest Charged to Fixed Assets        31      93    113    -          237       -       -     -       -
Total Construction Expenditures           962   1266   2628    750        5606      300    300    450    600
DEBT SERVICE
Amortization                              -       -       -      -         -        122    132    142    153
Interest Charged to Income Statement   108    104    210    441            863      487    477    467    456
Debt Service                              108    T        210 8 6T           3      609      09    609
OTHER APPLICATIONS
Change in Cash                             -3      43      35     90       165      -63      67      20    -13
Change in Other Current Assets             10       6       7      2        25       43    13        15     14IT
Total Other Applications                    7      449    4292             190   -20          8      0       1
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                       1077   1419   2880   1283        6659      889    989   1094   1210
Debt Service Covered by Internal Cash
Generation (Times)                     4.3    4.7    2.5    1.2                   1.4    1.6   1.8    2.0
Accumulated Cash at End of Year               207    250    285    375                 312    379    399    386
October 21, 1974



ANNEX 9
SWAZILAND
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
WATER AND SEWERAGE BOARD
INCOME STATENENT PROJECTIONS
tThousands of Ma1angenis)
Year Ending March 31                             1975  1976  1977  1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
OPERATING REVENUES
Water Supply Revenue (Net)                      717   777   846   922   1206   1315   1424   1543
Sewerage Revenue (Net)                          180   230   270   291    390    426    469    512
Total Operating Revenues                     897  1007  1116  1213   1596   1741   1893   2055
OPERATING EXPENSES
Wages & Employee Bene:its                       210   237   267   301    316    332    348    365
Power                                            73    84   100   125    140    155    170    185
Administration                                   53    59    66    74      78      82     86     90
Other Operating Expenses                         60    68    77    87      93    101    108    117
Transport and Travel                             66    72    79    87      90     93      97    101
Depreciation                                     98   157   262   361    424    438    451    469
Total Operating Expenses                     560   677   851  1035   1141   1201   1260   1327
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST                            337   330   265   178    455    540    633    728
Interest                                        108   104   210   441    487    477    467    456
NET INCOME                                        229   226    55  -263   -32        63    166    272
Operating Ratio % (before depreciation)            52    52    53    56      45      44     43     42
Average Rate Base                                3135  4403  7028  9521  10474  10528  10458  10523
Return on Average Rate B$se %                    10.7   7.5   3.7   1.9    4.4    5.1    6.1    6.9
October 21, 1974



SWA2ILAND                                    ANNEX 10
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
WATER AND SEWERAGE BOARD
BALANCE SHEET PROJECTIONS
(Thousands of Emalangenis)
As of March 31                         1974  1975  1976  1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross in Operation                   2828  3540  5620  9209  11229  11899  12199  12649  13249
Less: Accumulated Depreciation        -       98   255   517    878   1302   1740   2191   2660
Net in Operation                     252  3442          5692  10351  10597  10459  10458  10589
Work in Progress                       266   962   820   752    470    100    100    100    100
Net Fixed Assets                     309    4       4      4 105021 106597  109  1          10689
Current Assets
Inventories                             8     9      9    11     11      12     12     14      14
Accounts Receivable                    45    54    60    65       67    109    122    135    149
Cash                                  210   207   250   285    375       12    379    399      86
Total Current Assets                  26    270   319   361    453  4i33    513548    549
TOTAL ASSETS                         3357  4674  6504  9805  11274  11130  11072  11106  11238
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY
Government Capital Contribution      1777  1777  1777  1777   1777   1777   1777   1777   1777
Accumulated Surplus                   -      229   455   510    247    215    278    444    716
Revaluation Surplus                   -      446  1118  2011   2999   2999   2999   2999   2999
Total Equity                        1777  2       3350   2975  5023   4991    0     5220      92
DEBT
Long-Term Debt                       1500  2112  3030  5370   6100   5978   5846   5704   5551
Less:  Current Maturities             -      -     -     -      122    132    142   153    160
Long-Term Debt - Net                 1500  2112  303             7                57         5391
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable                       50    78    89    99    110    117    124    131    139
Customer Deposits                      30    32    35    38      41      44     48     51      56
Current Maturities                     -      -     -     -     122    132    142    15       160
Total Current Liabilities        5                 124 13 7     273    293    31
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES           3357  4674  6504  9805  11274  11130  11072  11106  11238
Debt as % of Long-Term Capitalization
(excluding revaluation surplus)        45    50    56    69      72      72     71     68      65
October 21, 1974



ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 5
SWAZILAND
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Notes on Financial Statements and Projections
Introduction
1.        The financial statements and projections are based on information
supplied by Government and on the Colqhuon report. They also take into account
recent information supplied by WSB's Director and WSB's Financial Controller
neither of whom had taken up their appointments at the time of the appraisal
mission.
Income Statements
Revenues
2.        The method of forecasting revenues is described in Annex 5,  Revenues
are shown net after a 2-1/2%o deduction for uncollectible billings.  Although
this is higher than information about past collections suggests, there may be
a tendency for uncollectible billings to increase as service to lower income
groups is extended and water tariffs are increased.
Expenses
3.        Buring the project disbursement period, FY1975 through FY1978, all
expenses are assumed to increase by 8% per annum, due to price increases.
Thereafter, price levels are assumed to remain constant. Paragraphs 4 to 9
below describe the other assumptions used in projecting expenses.
Wages and Employee Benefits
4.        This includes salaries and wages, housing and education allowances,
gratuities pensions and home travel.  It has been assumed that expenses will
increase at 5% per annum.
Transport and Travel
5.        The main expenses included under this heading are:  (a) the cost
of hiring vehicles from the Central Transport Organization, and (b) employ-
ee travel. It has been assumed that expenses will increase at 4% per annum.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 2 of 5
Power
6.        Expense has been estimated to increase approximately in proportion
to production.
Other Operating Expenses
7.        This includes chemicals, spare and connection costs and miscellaneous
items. It has been assumed that these will increase by about 8% per annum.
Administration
8.        This includes building costs, printing and stationery, postage and
miscellaneous costs. It has been assumed that administration costs will
increase by about 4% per annum.
Depreciation
9.        Depreciation on fixed assets in service, has been calculated on a
straight line basis at an average rate of 3.5% per annum.
Rate of Return
10.       Rate of return figures are calculated by taking operating income
as a percentage of average net fixed assets in operation.
Assets
11.       The assets have been revalued with increases of 15% in FY1975, 13%
in 1976, 10%' in 1977 and 10% in 1978. After 1978, assets are at 1978 prices.
The rate base calculation is shown on Page 4 of this annex.
Balance Sheet
12.       The balance sheet at March 31, 1974 shows the position after
Government is deemed to have placed water supply and sewerage assets under
the administration of WSB. It was agreed at negotiations that water supply
and sewerage fixed assets in service taken over by WSB would be valued at
E 2.8 million and that WSB would assume a debt service obligation to Govern-
ment on E 1.5 million leaving the residual value of assets taken over to be
treated as a capital contribution by Government to WSB. The value of work
in progress, inventories, accounts receivable, accounts payable and customer
deposits at March 31, 1974 have bee", estimated from information supplied by
Government and any adjustments to these estimates would merely increase or
decrease Government's capital contribution to WSB.
Cash
13.       Government is to provide E 210,000 for the separate fund which is
to be created under the Administration of the Water and Sewerage Board Special
Fund Regulations. All monies received by WSB's will be paid into the Fund
and all payments made out of it, thus separating WSB's cash transactions from
other Government cash transactions.



ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 5
14.      lIork in progress has been transferred to assets in operation in
the year of completion. Transfers are based on an estimate of the value
of work completed in the year.
15.       Accounts receivable are estimated at a percentage of annual revenues
equal to about 1-1/2 months' billings.
16.       Inventories of pipes, valves, fittings, small tools, etc. have been
kept at a low level in the past. Nominal additions to inventories have been
assumed as the scope of operations is enlarged.
17.       Accounts payable are estimated at about two months' operating
expenses.
Loans
18.       Loans by Government to WSB's (including the IBRD loan) are assumed
to carry an interest rate of 8% and be for a period of 25 years, including
a grace period of four years, and to be repayable through equal annual (or
semi-annual) level payments of principal and interest combined, commencing
FY1979. Loan interest during the grace period is financed by adding it to
the principal amount of the loan. A loan schedule for both the IBRD loan to
be onlent to WSB and the Government loan is shown as page 5 of this Annex.
19.       Based on the estimated cost of WSB's total construction program
during the project period FY1975 to FY1978, Government loan requirements of
E 2.3 million have been assumed.



SWAZILAND
WATER SUPPLY AND SENERAGE PROJECT
Rate Base Calculations
(Thousands of Emalangenis)
At March 31                       1L7)4   1975    1976    1977    1978    1979          1980        1981        1982
Revaluation Index                 1.00    1.15    1.29    1.42    1.56    1.56          1 56        1.56        1.56
Gross Fixed Assets               2,828   3,540   5,620   9,209  11,229  11,899        12,199      12,649     13,249
Less: Accumulated
Depreciation                -         98     255      517     878   1,302       1,740       2,191      2,660
Net Fixed Assets in
Operation                    2,828   3,4L2   5,365   8,692  10,351  10,597        10,459      10,458     10,589
Average Net Fixed Assets
in Operation (rate base)       2,828   3,135   4,403   7,028   9,521  10,474        10,528      10,458     10,523
1/ All costs after 1978 are at 1978 prices.
FtU



SWAZILAND
WATER SUPPLY AND S}WERAGE PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY AND SERAGE BOAR)
Loan Schedule
(Thousands of B      )alagnis)
1975   1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
IBRD LOAN
Balance at Beginnin)g                     -     128     628   1,996   2,301   2,255   2,205   2,151
Advances                              123    471   1,267     139      -       -       -       _
Interest                                      29     101     166     184     180      176   _73
128    628   1,996   2,301   2,485   2,435   2,381   2,32)4
Level Payments of Interest
and Principal                          -      -      -       -       230     230      230     230
Balance at End                          128    628   1,996   2,301   2,255   2,205   2,151   2,094
GOVERNMENT LOAN
Balance at Beginxdng                  1,500  1,984   2,402   3,374   3,799   3,723   3,641   3,553
Advances                              350    250     750     150     -        -       -       _
Interest                             13    168       222     275      303     297     291     284
1,984  2,402   3,37)4  3,799   4, 102   4,020   3,932   3-37
Level Payments of Interest
and Principal                        -       -       -       -       379      379     379     379        CD
Balance at End                        1,984  2,402   3,37)4  3,799   3,723   3,641   3,553   3,L458         0 i
-~   -:L        =---_                    -         - 458
Total Long-Term Debt                  2,112  3,030   5,370   6,100   5,978   5,846   5,704   5,552
October 21, 1974



ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2
swAZILAND
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Principal Water Supply and Sewerage Charges
Water Tariff
1.        From April 1, 1974, the water tariff is effective in the following
urban areas: Mbabane, Manzini, Nhlangano, Border Gate, Croyden, Hlatikulu,
Hluti, Kubuta, Lavumisa, Lolbamba, Lumahasha, Ltubuli, Mankayana and Piggs
Peak.
Residential (figures in brackets are metric equivalents)
(a) 0 to 3000 Ig per month at E 0.50 per 1000 Ig (O to
13640 liters per month at E 0.50 per 4546 liters)
(b) 3000 to 6000 Ig per month at E 0.75 per 1000 Ig
(13640 to 27280 liters per month at E 0.75 per
4546 liters);
(c)  Over 6000 Ig per month at E 1.00 per 1000 Ig
(Over 27280 liters per month at E 1.00 per 4546
liters).
Minimum monthly charge: E 1.50
Industrial and Commercial
E 1.00 per 1000 Ig (E 1.00 per 4546 liters)
Connection and Reconnection Charges (Connecting pipe not to exceed
400 ft. (30.5m))
(a) Connection charges
i)   1/2" diameter (12mm)            E 40
ii)   3/4" diameter (18mm)             E 50
iii)   exceeding 3/4" in diameter at a cost to be decided
by the urban water and sewerage authority
(b)  Reconnection fees                     E 4



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
Sewerage Tariff
2.        The sewerage tariff is effective in Mbabane and Manzini from
April 1, 1974.
Residential
(a) E 0.50 per 1000 Ig of water consumed
(E 0.50 per 4546 liters of water consumed)
(b)  Minimum charge per month is E 1.50
Commercial and Industrial
Based on above water consumption with additional
charges where effluent exceeds defined strengths.
Connection Charges
(a)  4" diameter (100mm)                       E 150
(b)  6" diameter (150mm)                       E 175
(c)  Above these diameters               Actual construction costs
(d) Consumers living in defined areas or having properties
valued at less than E 6,000: one-third of the above
charges
(e) Where plot or premises not on boundary line of public
sewer system, charges covering additional cost will be
payable.
May 24, 1974
.



ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 2
SWAZILAND
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Guidelines for Establishing a Project Monitoring System
1.        In techlnical discussions prior to negotiations, the type of monitor-
ing indicators suitable for WSB and described below were discussed with the
Director.
2.        It was agreed that, after the Director has had an opportunity to
assess WSB's performance potential, the monitoring indicators will be quan-
tified in consultation with the Bank and will be looked upon as targets for
operating efficiency.
3.        Based on the evaluation of the construction schedule (Annex 4),
physical performance standards will be laid down for the progress of physical
construction, e.g., Mbabane Raw Water Force Main:
Target Date         Cumulative Km of pipe to be laid
1975
3rd quarter
4th quarter
1976
1st quarter
2nd quarter
3rd quarter
4th quarter
4.        Service Standards
The following technical indicators will be used as a basis for
Project monitoring in each locality served by WSB's facilities:
-    volume of water produced and volume of water billed;
-    percentage of unaccounted-for water;
-    number of metered water connections and number of public
hydrants;
-    number of people served by WSB's water system;
percentage of population served by WSB's water system;



ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 2
number of sewer connections;
percentage of population served by direct sewer connections;
ratio of water sold on sewage collected.
5.        Staffing Levels
WSB's director will establish appropriate staff levels for future
levels of operation on which staffing plans are based. If the present staff-
ing levels are excessive, efforts will be made to reduce staff through limit-
ing future recruitment and through staff retirements and resignations.
The following staffing indicators will be used as a basis for
Project monitoring:
number of employees per 1,000 water connections (excluding
construction and sewerage labor);
number of employees per unit volume of water sold;
number of employees per 1,000 sewer connections (excluding
construction and water labor);
-    number of employees per volume of sewage collected.
6.        Ratios
Financial planning will be aimed to produce at least the minimum
rate of return on net fixed assets provided in the loan agreement. Operating
ratio targets 1/ will be established and looked upon as a target for operating
efficiency.
7.        The performance level for the management of receivables shall be
that outstanding debtors will not exceed at any month end the immediate pre-
vious month's billings plus one half of the previous billings. While every
effort will be made to keep uncollectible debts at a minimum, if write-offs
exceed 2-1/2 percent of annual billings or if debtors exceed the above levels,
the Director will establish a program to improve the position.
8.        Inventories
Maximum inventory levels for materials and supplies will be estab-
lished and where these levels are exceeded the director will be informed and
make every effort to reduce inventory levels. Materials for construction
projects will be separately classified for accounting purposes and the levels
will be related to planned construction programs.
1/   For this purpose, operating ratio is defined as:
Total Operating Expenses (excluding depreciation)
Operating Revenue
October 21, 197b






i 3RD-11006
f   s                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APRIL 1974
SWAZILAND
Project townsSW                                                       ZL N                                                    A       14
-Mainroadsj t.,WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Minor roads -ogvn ii
+t++~~~~~~~~~~~~T                                             TOlwi  To 1  j_               _   j 
_ _  mportant o0ifieidri                      uHorC                                                                                    IL
Aer~al ropeway
Rivers                          Iberton                    'i
ftLLIII  Pire ond gum forests                                             I
REGI-ONS:                            j
t2r   - X <4 eid- ovrc-ce he;ghtl       S1i                  g,9> 
above sea iovei  .200 M.                                                                                                            T e  - itI1  r /   rg- e \ 0  -
M'ddleveld-covercqs hI                                                                                               Lmhsh          ar*1C
above sea lev, Goom C                                                                                                            Mr.'
Lowveld- averoge h2.Igh9
obove, seoj 'vei 200rn~-I
Luboioc-avarogae heght ,                                                                      Mhim1
above sea level 550 rn    ,-
National capiral             ,GHOfHVYA                               r       j
international boundri                          H Os    H s)
I \-O  j@ jf rAt   Xy   Ar"t.te\ ( 42  MUes Rpef                         
Distric/> \ 2/\t bcuiar'ves 'Ko Da                                                                       ind
Sto~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
To Johaniiesburg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iwaun
I.<LL5S \iLMMhES namony       bb    i                                                 OKb R'l
-   aaSb,.r  Salfrfitary ~alkeat       St                                                   L 'B ', '      \'    
TrAmsz~i     >RqfEf     i.a ]J                                                           --    
1FRtCW 30TSWAN;~~~~~~~~~~~~~ffa    -_ktnAri'QE gn:-X~ j<^\:S
WieG_^f ;.vrregrRrzfLfrn                                                   _e ,tMAnsL                              S}
_.    ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S tUiLF                                        n i               
vrfr9_erf Nfferj  v20^zrnl     _           _          _                anTkf                  Gya*  O                    Xe
*  .- ~~~~ -~~ wElizabati  Mtt ES    '  L_                       0,@*nfjOfOfG~~~~~u  MOa   t



