CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1058 SW
Loan Agreement
(Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED DECEMBER 9, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1058 SW
Loan Agreement
(Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED DECEMBEK 9, 1974


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 9, 1974, between KINGDOM OF
SWAZILAND (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "WSB" means the Water and Sewerage Board of the Ministry of Works,
Power and Communications of the Borrower;
(b)   "WSB Regulations" means the regulations of the Borrower entitled
'Administration of the Water and Sewerage Board Special Fund Regulations, 1974',
issued on May 7, 1974, in Legal Notice No. 41 of 1974 of the Borrower, as
amended from time to time;
(c)   "Financial Undertaking" means the arrangement to be entered into
between the Borrower and WSB pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01(b) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(d)   "fiscal year" means WSB's fiscal year; and
(e)   "E" means Emalangeni, the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to three million five hundred thousand dollars ($3,500,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of interest
and other charges on the Loan.
(b)   On or before each of the semi-annual interest payment dates specified
in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay,
on such date, interest and other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on
or before the date set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Category 4 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1979 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section  2.06. The   Borrower shall pay    interest at the  rate  of
eight per cent (8%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) TiF Borrower shall carry out the Project through WSB
with due diligence and efficlency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,


﻿5
engineering, financial and public utility practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to WSB
under a financial undertaking, the terms and conditions of which shall be
satisfactory to the Bank including, inter alia, interest on the principal amount of
the loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at the rate specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement and repayment of the principal amount of the
loan in approximately equal semi-annual installments over a period of twenty-five
years, with a grace period of four years, provided, however, that the Borrower
shall bear the exchange risk of the Loan.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Financial Undertaking
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the Financial
Undertaking or any terms or conditions thereof.
(d)   The Borrower shall cause WSB to perform in accordance with the terms
and conditions of the Financial Undertaking all the obligations therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to enable WSB
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the preparation of plans,
specifications and bidding documents for the Project and in the supervision of
the construction of the Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed
consultants acceptablc to the Bank upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause WSB to employ accountants
acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to assist
in establishing commercial accounting procedures for WSB and in training WSB
accounting and management personnel.
(b)   After receiving the recommendations of the accountants referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall cause WSB to discuss said
recommendations with the Bank and based upon such discussion, to promptly
implement those recommendations which are acceptable to WSB.
Section 3.04. In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower
shall cause WSB to employ contractors acceptable to the Bank upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿6
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained, records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish, or cause to be furnished,
to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land, water or rights
in respect of land and water as shall be required for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(i)         the Borrower shall value the fixed assets of the water supply
and sewerage systems under the administration of WSB at levels
acceptable to the Bank; and
(ii)        the Borrower shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank:
(1)   ensuring that WSB repays the Borrower E1,500,000 for
the fixed assets under the administration of WSB; and


﻿7
(2)   ensuring that the Borrower pays to WSB the rates and
charges relating to the water supply and sewerage services
supplied by WSB to the Borrower, including water
consumed through standpipes.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making ioans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no
cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term  "public assets" means assets of the
Borrower, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower,
or of any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions or a central bank or exchange
stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.


﻿8
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause WSB to maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of WSB.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause WSB to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and statements of
sources and application of funds and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements of WSB and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause WSB to take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. Before making any appointment to the positions of Director
and Financial Controller of WSB, respectively, the Borrower shall consult with the
Bank on the qualifications and experience of the proposed appointees.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall take, or cause WSB to take, during fiscal years 1976 to 1978 such action
as may be necessary to ensure that WSB maintains an operating ratio of not more
than 55.
(b)   For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section, the term "operating
ratio" means operating costs of WSB's water supply and sewerage services (including
administrative and maintenance costs, but excluding any provision for depreciation)
times 100, the total of which is divided by the gross operating revenues accruing
from WSB's water supply and sewerage services.
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall take, or cause WSB to take, from time to time such action as may be necessary
(including, but without limitation to, adjustment and maintenance of tariffs for
water supply and sewerage services) to provide revenues sufficient to produce an
annual return on the average value of WSB's water supply and sewerage assets


﻿9
in operation at the rate of at least 4% in fiscal year 1979, at least 5% in fiscal
year 1980, at least 6% in fiscal year 1981 and at least 7% in fiscal year 1982
and thereafter.
(b)   For purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section:
(i)         The annual rate of return shall be calculated by relating the
net operating income of WSB for the fiscal year in question
to the average of the net depreciated value of WSB's fixed assets
in operation at the beginning and at the end of the year in
question;
(ii)        "net operating income" shall mean the difference between:
(A)   gross operating revenues accruing from WSB's water supply
and sewerage services; and
(B)   all operating costs of WSB's water supply and sewerage
services, including administrative expenses, adequate
maintenance and provision for depreciation on all
depreciable assets in operation, based upon the agreed
estimated useful life of such assets, computed in
accordance with the straight-line method at an average rate
of not less than 3-1/2% per annum of the gross value of
such depreciable assets, and excluding interest and other
charges on debt; and
(iii)       "Net depreciated value of WSB's fixed assets in operation" shall
mean the gross value of such assets, valued annually in
accordance with methods agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank, less accumulated depreciation.
Section 4.07. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not incur, or permit to be incurred, any debt for the benefit of WSB unless
WSB's net revenues for the fiscal year next preceding the date of such incurrence
or for any later twelve-month period ending prior to the date of such incurrence,
whichever net revenues are the greater, shall be at least 1.5 times the maximum
debt service requirements for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt incurred for
the benefit of WSB, including the debt to be incurred.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:


﻿10
(i)         the term  "debt" means all debt incurred by or on behalf of
WSB, including debt assumed or guaranteed by the Borrower,
except debt incurred in the ordinary course of business and
maturing by its terms on demand or less than one year after
its incurrence;
(ii)        the term   "incur" with reference to any debt includes any
modification of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall
be deemed to be incurred (1) under a contract or loan agreement,
on the date such contract or loan agreement providing for such
debt is entered into and (2) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee is entered
into but shall be only counted to the extent that the underlying
debt is outstanding;
(iii)       the term "net revenues" means total revenues from all sources,
adjusted to take account of WSB's tariffs in effect at the tinie
of the incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect
during the entire fiscal year or twelve-month period to which
such revenues relate, less all operating and other expenses,
including adequate maintenance, taxes, if any, and administrative
expenses, but before provision for depreciation and debt service
requirements;
(iv)        the term   "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if
any), interest and other charges on debt; and
(v)         whenever it shall be necessary to value in the currency of the
Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall
be made on the basis of the rate of exchange at which such
other currency is obtainable by the Borrower, at the time such
valuation is made, for the purposes of servicing such debt, or,
if such other currency is not so obtainable at the rate of
exchange that will be reasonably determined by the Bank.
Section 4.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, until completion
of the Project, the Borrower shall cause WSB by January 1 of each year to submit
to the Bank for approval its proposed program of capital expenditures for the
ensuing fiscal year.


﻿11
ArTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely that the WSB Regulations shall
have been amended without the prior approval of the Bank in such manner as
to materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the efficient
operation of WSB.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of t .eneral Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Financial Undertaking on behalf of
the Borrower and WSB have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
administrative and governmental action; and
(b)  the accountants referred to in Section 3.03(a) of this Agreement shall
have been employed.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Financial
Undertaking has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the Borrower and WSB, respectively, and constitutes a legally binding
obligation of the Borrower and WSB in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date March 10, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿12
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Finance
and Economic Planning
P.O. Box 443
Mbabane, Swaziland
Cable address:
MINFIN
Mbabane
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
C.ble address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿13
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND
By /sf/ J.L.F. Simelane
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / S. S. Husain
Reg-onal Vice PrPsident
Eastern Africa


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Civil works                     500,000           33%
(2)   Pipe, equipment               1,200,000            100% of foreign
and vehicles and                                   expenditures or
spare parts                                        90% of local ex-
penditures
(3)   Consultants'                    600,000            100% of foreign
services and                                       expenditures and
training                                           90% of local ex-
penditures
(4)   Interest and other              500,000           Amounts due
charges on the
Loan accrued on or
before December 31,
1977
(5)   Unallocated                     700,000
TOTAL         3,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from, the territory,,,and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is
also that of another country from the territory of which goods or services are
supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed
to be "foreign expenditures"; and


﻿15
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from, the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any such taxes
included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Category 3 on account of expenditures
incurred after July 1, 1974 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $150,000.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is approximately 50 per cent of WSB's construction program
for the years 1975 through 1977. It includes the following Parts:
Part A:     Water Supply Systems
(1)   Construction in Mbabane of an intake, a pumping station and
a force main of a length of about 1.5 kilometers.
(2)   Construction in Manzini of a primary main of a length of about
4 kilometers.
(3)   Construction in Nhlangano of an intake, treatment works, two
service reservoirs and a force main of a length of about 9
kilometers.
(4)   Construction in Mbabane, Manzini (including Kwaluseni and
Matsapa) and Nhlangano of a total of about 40 kilometers of
extensions to the water distribution systems therein.
Part B:    Sewerage Systems
(1)   Construction in Mbabane and Manzini (including Kwaluseni and
Matsapa) of a total of about 40 kilometers of extensions to the
sewerage systems therein.
(2)   Improvement of the oxidation ponds of the sewerage treatment
works at Manzini.
Part C.   Equipment
Purchase and utilization by WSB of two fully equipped
maintenance trucks and repair and other equipment.
Part D:    Consultants' Services and Training
(1)   Establishment by WSB of a commercially-based financial and
statistical information system.
(2)   Local and overseas training of WSB technicians, engineers and
accountants.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                  (expressed in dollars)*
January 1, 1979                                          30,000
July 1, 1979                                             35,000
January 1, 1980                                          35,000
July 1, 1980                                             40,000
January 1, 1981                                          40,000
July 1, 1981                                             40,000
January 1, 1982                                          40,000
July 1, 1982                                             45,000
January 1, 1983                                          45,000
July 1, 1983                                             50,000
January 1, 1984                                          50,000
July 1, 1984                                             50,0
January 1, 1985                                          55,000
July 1, 1985                                             55,000
January 1, 1986                                          60,000
July 1, 1986                                             0,000
January 1, 1987                                          65,000
July 1, 1987                                             65,000
January 1, 1988                                          70,000
July 1, 1988                                             70,000
January 1, 1989                                          75,000
July 1, 1989                                             75,000
January 1 1990                                           80,000
July 1, 1990                                             80,000
January 1, 1991                                          85,000
July 1, 1991                                             90,000
January 1, 1992                                          95,000
July 1, 1992                                             95,000
January 1, 1993                                         100,000
July 1, 1993                                            105,000
January 1, 1994                                         110,000
July 1, 1994                                            115,00
January 1, 1995                                         115,000
July 1, 1995                                            120,000
January 1, 1996                                         125,000
July 1, 1996                                            130,000
January 1, 1997                                         135,000
July 1, 1997                                            145,000
January 1, 1998                                         150,0
July 1, 1998                                            155,000
January 1, 1999                                         160,000
July 1, 1999                                            160,000
*  To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿18
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium*
Not more than three                                    3/4%
years before
maturity
More than three years                                2-1/4%
but not more than
six years before
maturity
More than six years but                                  3%
not more than eleven
years before maturity
More than eleven years                               4-3/4%
but not more than
sixteen years before
maturity
More than sixteen years                              6-3/4%
but not more than
twenty-one years
before maturity
More than twenty-one years                           7-1/2%
but not more than
twenty-three years
before maturity
More than twenty-three                                   8%
years before maturity


﻿19
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Contracts shall be let under procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the -basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    With respect to the contracts referred to in Part A(l) of this Schedule:
(i)         Bidders for the civil works included in Parts A and B of the
Project shall be prequalified as described in Part B(1)(a) of this
Schedule; and
(ii)        Contracts for civil works and equipment shall be grouped so
as to facilitate international competition.
3.    The Borrower may procure pipe, equipment, vehicles or spare parts without
resort to international competition, provided that: (i) quotations for the supply
of such items are obtained from at least two competing suppliers, (ii) each such
item costs less than the equivalent of $10,000 and (iii) the total cost of such
items included in this paragraph does not exceed a maximum amount of $50,000.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences for Domestic
Con tractors
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works included under Category (1)
of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, the Borrower may
grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   Domestic contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided in
Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification applying also for such
preference shall be asked to provide, as part of the information for qualification,
such information, including details of ownership, as shall be required to determine
whether, according to the classification established by the Borrower and accepted
by the Bank, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference.
The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the method that
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such
preference.


﻿20
(b)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.    Review of prequalification under Part B(1)(a) of this Schedule. The Borrower
shall, before qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure
to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a
statement of their qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility for
domestic preference under Part B(1) above and of the reasons for the exclusion
of any applicant for prequalification and for such eligibility shall be furnished by
the Borrower to the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified,
and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications
in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder


﻿21
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report,
by the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendation for award
of the said consultants and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank
corcurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph 2, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


