Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16699
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
INTEGRATED PHOSPHATE PROJECT
(LOAN 3172-JO)
June 18, 1997
Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Afiica Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
INTEGRATED PHOSPHATE PROJECT (LOAN 3172-JO)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Nov. 1996)
Currency Unit = Jordan Dinar (JD)
JD1.00 = US$1.414
JDO.709 = US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cubic meter (mi3) = 1.308 cubic yards
I metric tonne (t ) = 1,000 kilograrns (kg)
1 metric tonne (t) = 2204.6 pounds
1 kilometer (kin) = 0.62 mile
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DAP          -     Di-ammonium Phosphate
IFC          -     International Finance Corporation
IJC          -     Indo-Jordan Corporation
IMF          -     International Monetary Fund
JFI          -     Jordan Fertilizer Industries
JPMC         -     Jordan Phosphate Mines Company
MMTC         -     Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation (India)
mt           -     million tonnes
mtpy         -     million tonnes per year
NJCC         -     Nippon-Jordan Chemical Company
SAR          -     Staff Appraisal Report
Vice President:   Kemal Dervis
Director:        Inder Sud
Division Chief:  Alastair J. McKechnie
Task Manager:    Christopher Wardell



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
INTEGRATED PHOSPHATE MINE PROJECT (LOAN 3172-JO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE                                                                                                  iii
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ..........................................................................             iv
Introduction ...................................................................                 iv
Project Objectives ...................................................................           iv
Implementation Experience and Results ...................................... .............................   v
Summary of findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned .....................................  vi
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                                               I
A. Project Objectives .I
B. Achievement of Project Objectives.                                                            2
Sector Policy Improvements.                                                              2
Physical Objectives                          .3
Institutional Development                       .4
Environmental Improvements.                                                              4
Financial Objectives                          .4
Public Sector Management                         .5
C.   Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project.                              5
Factors not Subject to the Borrower's Control.                                           5
Factors Subject to the Borrower's Control.                                               6
D. Project Sustainability                            .6
E. Bank Performance                                 .7
F. Borrower Performance                               .7
G. Assessment of Outcome                              .8
H. Future Operation                                .9
I. Key Lessons Leared                                .9
PART II - STATISTICAL ANNEXES                                                                            11
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans .13
Table 3: Project Timetable .13
Table 4: Loan Disbursements .13
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Iplementation .14
Table 6: Studies Included in Project .14
Table 7A: Project Costs .15
Table 7B: Project Financing .15
Table 8A:  Beneficiation Plant Component - Economic Costs and Benefits                           16
Table 8B: Fertilizer Plant Component - Economic Costs and Benefits .17
Table 8C: Beneficiation Plant Component - Financial cost and Benefits                            18
Table 8D:  Fertilizer Plant Component - Financial Cost and Benefits .19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table 8E:  Economic and Financial Costs and Benefits ........................................................                                                                                                                    20
Table 9:    Status of Legal Covenants .......................................................................                                                                                                                    22
Table 10:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .......................................................................                                                                                                                  23
Table  11:   Bank Resources:  Missions .........................................................                                                                         ...............                                         23
Annex  1:   ICR  Mission Aide Memoire/Plan for Operations  ............................................... ...............                                                                                                                          24
Annex 2:   Borrower's Contribution to the ICR    ........................................................................                                                                                                                           30



- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
INTEGRATED PHOSPHATE PROJECT
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Integrated Phosphate
Project in Jordan, for which Loan 3172-JO in the amount of US$25 million was approved on
February 20, 1990, and made effective on April 30, 1991.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1995. Final disbursement took place on May
9, 1996. The commencement of preparation of the ICR was delayed by mutual agreement between
the Bank and the Borrower in order to allow for completion of beneficiation plant commissioning
and for initial operations to commence, and thus to be able to more fully address future plant
operations and overall project sustainability.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Christopher Wardell, Industry and Mining Division,
Industry and Energy Department, Vice Presidency for Finance and Private Sector Development. It
was reviewed by Mr. Alastair McKechnie, Chief, Private Sector Development and Infrastructure
Division, Country Department II, Middle East and North Africa Region and by Ms. Tufan Kolan,
Acting Project Advisor, Country Department II. The Borrower provided comments that are
included as an Appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in
April 1996, and was finalized during the ICR mission in February 1997. It is based on material in
the project file. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by frankly exchanging
views on project preparation, procurement, implementation, plant start-up and initial operations,
and related issues, by commenting on the draft ICR, and by preparing its own evaluation of the
project's preparation and execution.






- iv -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
INTEGRATED PHOSPHATE PROJECT (LOAN 3172-JO)
Executive Summary
Introduction
(a)   The Jordanian economy, with important support from Gulf states and remittances from
workers there, grew rapidly until the collapse of oil prices in 1983. Most economic indicators
deteriorated over the next six years; export competitiveness declined as the exchange rate became
increasingly overvalued, overall growth stagnated, and a serious balance of payments crisis emerged
in 1989. With Bank/IMF assistance, the government adopted a stabilization and adjustment
program in 1989 involving major currency devaluation, budget deficit reduction, measures to
deregulate industry and introduce more competition, and measures to liberalize imports and
facilitate exports. The development of Jordan's vast phosphate reserves for export became an
important part of the overall program to reduce the external imbalance.
(b)   In the industrial sector, previous Bank involvement consisted of an Emergency Credit (1975)
in the potash sector, potash projects (1978, 1986), an Energy Development Project (1983), several
power projects, and a phosphate mine project (1989). IFC investment has been in the production of
ceramic tiles, aluminum fluoride, phosphate fertilizers, bricks, and the development of the Amman
Capital Market. The first phosphate project in 1989 (Loan 2902-JO) provided the foundation upon
which to build this second phosphate project.
Project Objectives
(a)   The primary project objectives were to (i) increase further Jordan's phosphate rock
production by 1.5 million tonnes per year (mtpy), thus increasing the output from the new, low-cost
Shidiya phosphate area to over 3 mtpy, and the country's total rock exports to in excess of 7 mtpy,
and (ii) rehabilitate the Aqaba Fertilizer Complex to achieve a revised nameplate capacity of
740,000 tpy di-ammonium phosphate (DAP) fertilizer. Other objectives included ensuring that the
production from the Shidiya area continued to be phased effectively with existing and declining
phosphate rock production at traditional mines, and reorganizing and restructuring further the
phosphate sector by the methodical integration of mining operations with downstream fertilizer
facilities. (Section A).
(b)   Loan covenants were designed primarily to address general project implementation and
financial performance of the Borrower rather than to specifically promote the achievement of
project physical objectives. A supplementary (side) letter to the Guarantee Agreement provided a
dated agreement regarding phosphate transport arrangements which had been a chronic problem



- v -
with the Aqaba Railway Corporation, but which did not have a direct bearing on project objectives
(para 21).
(c)    Sector and institutional development, physical, and environmental project objectives were
broad, clear and precise, and provided a framework for successful project development and
implementation (Section B). The project design was relatively complex, but not considered to be
particularly demanding for the Borrower, who had long experience in phosphate beneficiation and
fertilizer production. Risks associated with projects involved in commodity exports facing cyclical
trends were encountered. Borrower circumstances deteriorated in the early stages of project
implementation due to a serious decline in world phosphate trade and phosphate rock markets. As a
result, the Borrower had to scale back project production build-up and phosphate sector
development priorities in the context of planned phasing of Shidiya development with the output of
traditional mines.
Implementation Experience and Results
(a)   Notwithstanding significant project delays, the project was successful since it achieved the
major part of its objectives. Sector policy improvements were effected (para. 7); physical
objectives, within the constraint of tight world market conditions that have persisted through most
of the project implementation period, will be met within the coming 6 months (paras. 8 and 9);
further institutional development of the Borrower has been effected (para. 10); and the financial and
economic benefits, even considering the production tax imposed by government during the final
stages of project preparation, are reasonable (para. 12). Project sustainability is likely, bearing in
mind the Borrower's experience in operating phosphate beneficiation and fertilizer plant operations
(Section D).
(b)   The project has been completed at a cost of US$201.4 million equivalent, compared with the
forecast (SAR) project cost of US$149.7 million equivalent (Part III, Table 7A). The cost increase
is due primarily to (i) higher than anticipated turnkey contractor costs for the redesigned
beneficiation plant and for the fertilizer plant rehabilitation (possibly at least partly occasioned by
the aftermath conditions following the 1990/91 crisis in the Gulf), and (ii) increases in working
capital requirements due to beneficiation plant commissioning delay. Financing arrangements were
adjusted due to the non-availability of Kuwait Funds, following the Gulf crisis (Part III, Table 7B),
with the Borrower arranging additional local loans and mobilizing additional internal funds. Project
construction was completed with the commissioning of the rehabilitated fertilizer plant in late- 1994,
and the completion of mechanical erection of the beneficiation plant in early-1996. Commissioning
of the washing section of the beneficiation plant was completed successfully in early- 1996 and
commissioning of the flotation section of that plant is scheduled in mid- 1997. This compares to the
planned commissioning completion dates of end-1992.
(c)    Three key factors affected the timely achievement of the project's main objectives of
increasing the production and export of phosphate rock from the Shidiya area and the rehabilitation
of the fertilizer plant rehabilitation (paras. 14-16). Firstly, initial procurement was delayed as the
Borrower, with Bank concurrence, expanded and optimized the design specifications of the
beneficiation plant, undertook pre-qualification of contractors prior to a two-stage bidding process,



- vi -
and revised bid documents for the fertilizer plant rehabilitation to accord with Bank guidelines.
Secondly, the crisis in the Gulf in 1990 caused the bidding process to be seriously interrupted and
necessitated a revision of the project financing plan, with consequent delays in opening a Letter of
Credit for the beneficiation plant turnkey contract. Thirdly, difficulties were experienced during
commissioning of the beneficiation plant which are necessitating detailed and time consuming plant
adjustments and modifications. Failure to meet the objective of increasing the total production and
export of phosphate rock from Jordan was caused by serious market constraints that occurred,
starting in 1992, forcing the Borrower to scale back mine production across its operations. In
addition, phosphate ore stocks accumulated in 1992-93 to unacceptable levels and the Borrower was
obliged to focus on reduction of these stocks at the expense of production. Nevertheless, by
focusing on development of the low cost Shidiya area and reducing the higher cost traditional mines
output, the Borrower has brought the project to a successful conclusion, even under the adverse
market conditions.
(d)   In general, the performance of the Bank, the Borrower, and the government as Guarantor,
was satisfactory throughout project implementation (Sections E and F). The Borrower prepared a
bankable feasibility study; handled procurement efficiently; arranged the timely provision of project
infrastructure; and supervised turnkey contractors and plant commissioning in an efficient manner.
The Guarantor ensured that a necessary share issue to increase the Borrower's capital base was duly
subscribed. Bank staff assisted in defining a project scope that was within the financing capability
of the company and the country. Bank and Borrower staff participated in a major development
impact assessment which proved important for the Borrower to focus on key project issues and to
adjust its corporate strategies during a serious market downtum. The main weaknesses of Bank
input were (i) approval of an over-simplified project implementation schedule which did not
incorporate a two-stage bidding process with necessary contractor pre-qualification and (ii)
optimistic forecasts of world market growth for phosphate rock exports. The main weaknesses of
the Borrower were its failure to (i) adjust quickly its corporate strategies during project
implementation in light of declining market conditions, and (ii) take full advantage of technical
assistance provided to upgrade production planning and financial management to ensure that it
could quickly adjust corporate strategies to respond to changing market conditions and to identify
quickly the financial ramifications of alternative production plans and strategies.
(e)    On the basis that the major project objectives have been met including successful
commissioning and initial operations of the rehabilitated fertilizer plant, and that the physical
objective of developing beneficiation plant facilities at Shidiya is attainable in the near-term, the
project outcome is rated as satisfactory (Section G).
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
(a)   The Borrower's overall production plan is now firmly focused on the development of the
low unit production cost Shidiya area and its orderly phasing with traditional mine areas. The
fertilizer plant rehabilitation has been completed in 1994 and commissioning of the beneficiation
plant is imminent, with target output planned in 1999. On the basis of the Borrower's long



- vii -
experience in the operation of phosphate beneficiation and fertilizer plants; recent company and
project management strengthening, the project output is attainable and should pose no problem in
terms of sustainability (Section H).
(b)   There are two key findings/lessons to be learned from the project implementation experience
(Section I). Relatively complex projects in the hands of a strong and quasi-commercially oriented
government company can yield very measurable project benefits. Secondly, for any company
involved in commodity exports subject to cyclical trends, market growth prospects must be
addressed with caution and sensitivity analyses undertaken to ensure corporate viability and
sustainability. In addition, company management must remain flexible and be able to adjust quickly
its corporate strategies to weather serious market fluctuations and down-turns. In this case,
however, the major economic dislocations that occurred in eastern Europe in the early-1990's that
affected phosphate world demand could not be anticipated in any meaningful way in sensitivity
analyses. Based on these findings and on the knowledge of (i) the scarcity of fiscal resources, (ii)
the high risk nature of the Borrower's, and indeed any mining business, and (iii) the Borrower's
leading position in Jordan as a company involved in the international commodity arena, partial or
full privatization could and should be considered by government and should yield strong and
sustainable benefits to the company and to the overall economy.
(c)   Following the Borrower's further upgrading of management; its corporate and production
planning, and corporate financial management skills, Jordan's phosphate sector operations should
continue to make a major contribution to the country and the economy. The Borrower is in a strong
and predictable financial position, is developing an adequate track record and, with appropriate
guidance and resolution of an onerous fiscal regime, private sector interests could now be
encouraged to assist and actively participate in future industry expansion.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
INTEGRATED PHOSPHATE PROJECT (LOAN 3172-JO)
Part I - Project Implementation Assessment
A.   Project Objectives
1.          Since phosphate is the most important of Jordan's mineral resources and provides
substantial foreign exchange (through the export of phosphate rock and fertilizer products) and a
major contribution to Gross Domestic Product, the primary project objectives were (a) to increase
phosphate rock production and the level of phosphate rock exports by developing the second
(phosphate beneficiation) phase of the Shidiya area, building upon the earlier Shidiya Mine Project
(Loan 2902-JO); and (b) to rehabilitate the existing phosphate fertilizer production facilities at
Aqaba.
2.          Phosphate rock had traditionally been mined at the EI Hassa and El Abiad mines.
However, these mines were faced with limited economically recoverable phosphate rock reserves
and were becoming increasingly high cost, thus reducing potentially the international
competitiveness of Jordan's exports. Under the Shidiya Mine Project (Loan 2902-JO), mine
development at Shidiya was undertaken to produce direct export (A2 bed) phosphate rock. The
mine also extracted lower grade (Al and A3 beds) phosphate rock which was stockpiled for
subsequent processing in beneficiation plant facilities to be developed under this second project
(Loan 3172-JO). Feasibility assessments and initial mine development had identified that Shidiya
phosphate rock could be developed at low unit production cost, thus reducing Jordan's overall
production costs and increasing its international competitiveness. The Project recognized the need
to coordinate the further development at Shidiya with the declining output from the existing mines.
The Aqaba fertilizer complex, transferred from the previous Jordan Fertilizer Industries (JFI) to the
Jordan Phosphate Mines Company (JPMC) in the early 1990s, had been beset by technical and
operational difficulties and had failed to approach design capacities. The Project recognized the
need to rehabilitate the plant in order to permit full production and export of phosphate fertilizers.
Thus the primary project objectives were clear and realistic.
3.          Initial feasibility study assessments at Shidiya had focused on a 10 million tonnes per
year integrated mine-beneficiation plant-rail-fertilizer project. The project was subsequently
redesigned to encompass an early mine production scheme (Loan 2902-JO), to be followed by the
development of phosphate beneficiation plant facilities at Shidiya (Loan 3172-JO) to treat lower
quality rock from the initial mining area. This brought the project scope within the financing
capabilities of the country, and facilitated the generation of early phosphate rock production and
revenues from the Shidiya deposit.



- 2 -
4.          The implementing agency (the Borrower) for the project was the Jordan Phosphate
Mines Company (JPMC) Limited. With long experience in the development, construction and
operation of phosphate beneficiation plants in Jordan, the beneficiation plant component of the
project was considered within the Borrower's capabilities, even though introducing phosphate
flotation technology for the first time in Jordan. Equally, with long experience in the operation of
the Aqaba fertilizer complex and a clear understanding of its historical technical and operational
constraints, the plant rehabilitation was considered also well within the Borrower's capabilities.
The project's institutional objective, building upon the institutional development initiated under
Loan 2902-JO, was to assist the Borrower to reorganize and restructure further the phosphate sector
by continued methodical integration of JPMC's traditional phosphate mine operations with
downstream fertilizer plant operations. A related objective was to restore private sector confidence
in JPMC in anticipation of its participation in the financing of future expansion phases. This was
necessary since the financial impact of the absorption of the Jordan Fertilizer Industry (JFI)
operations had left the company in a tight cash position, and with lower profitability and reduced
corporate prospects. The Project also included provision for technical assistance to retain project
management advisors to assist implementation of the fertilizer plant rehabilitation.
5.          The project faced no technical risks beyond those normally associated with any
beneficiation plant development or fertilizer plant rehabilitation. On the basis of JPMC's long
experience in phosphate beneficiation and fertilizer operations in Jordan, these risks were judged to
be minimal. Main risks were foreseen in phosphate market development forecasts and prices.
Sensitivity analyzes demonstrated that under worst foreseen assumptions, the project was not
unduly exposed to serious risks in these areas.
6.          Borrower circumstances changed dramatically in 1992 with a marked deterioration in
market conditions for the export of phosphate rock. Eastern Europe markets collapsed, particularly
in Romania and Poland (due to serious internal economic difficulties and limited foreign exchange
to procure imports), and in Yugoslavia (due to internal conflicts). In India, one of Jordan's key
markets for phosphate rock exports, market penetration was abruptly aggravated by the removal of
subsidies to farmers, and the liberalization of procurement of phosphate fertilizer raw materials
imports for both public and private enterprises (responsibility for which had previously rested on a
monopoly basis with the Indian Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation). Lack of adjustment of
corporate strategies to these deteriorating market conditions led to poor Borrower financial
performance in 1993 and its need to cut back quickly rock production to draw down excessive levels
of product stocks. As a result, Jordan's overall phosphate rock production had to be pared back, and
the level of phosphate rock exports declined.
B.    Achievement of Project Objectives
7.          Sector Policy Improvements. The Project was not designed specifically to address
policy issues. Nonetheless, important sector policy matters were addressed. The mining and
fertilizer operations of the phosphate industry in Jordan were further integrated and the
management, planning, budgeting and accounting of the new company's (mine and fertilizer)
operations were rationalized. During the implementation of the Project, the Borrower completed
technical assistance (mobilized under Loan 2902-JO) to upgrade and integrate production planning



- 3 -
and financial management and to focus its corporate strategy on a cost-driven (as opposed to an
export/production-driven) basis and to concentrate production on the lower unit cost Shidiya
development area. Phosphate fines are now collected at mines during de-dusting and are utilized at
the fertilizer complex, together with sub-commercial phosphate rock grades, as an integral part of
the fertilizer plant feed, thus enhancing the overall economics of the sector. During project
implementation, JPMC has continued to attract and develop successfully private sector joint venture
partners for the construction of downstream intermediate and final phosphate fertilizer products at
Shidiya and Aqaba. This provides not only a captive supply for a portion of phosphate rock
production but further diversifies the Borrower's product lines and thus its ability to adjust to
phosphate market demand variations.
8.          Physical Objectives. The project was designed to produce 1.5 mtpy phosphate rock
concentrates from beneficiation of the lower quality Al and A3 phosphate beds at Shidiya, by 1995
and 740,000 tonnes DAP at the Aqaba Fertilizer Complex, by end-1992. Al concentrates
production commenced only in 1996 and commissioning of the flotation section of the plant (A3
concentrates) is now scheduled in mid-1997. Target concentrate production is scheduled for 1999.
Fertilizer plant rehabilitation was completed in 1994 and has continuously exceeded 90 per cent of
the revised name-plate capacity of 740,000 tonnes DAP per year. The delayed beneficiation plant
production build-up is due, inter alia, to (i) procurement delays relating to plant capacity expansion
and the need and benefit, recognized only after project appraisal, to undertake a two-stage bidding
process with contractor pre-qualification; (ii) the crisis in the Gulf in 1990/91; (iii) tighter than
anticipated world phosphate rock market conditions; and (iv) difficulties experienced during final
commissioning of the flotation section of the beneficiation plant. The delayed start-up of the
rehabilitated fertilizer complex was due to similar procurement processing delays and to the onset of
the Crisis in the Gulf. Although these factors have led to delays in the attainment of the key project
objectives and an increase in turnkey contract costs, and thus overall project costs, these have
compensated, to some extent, by increased output from the capacity expansion of the beneficiation
plant, and will result in acceptable project benefits (para. 13).
9.          Although the objective of increasing production at Shidiya is anticipated to be met in
1999, the objective of expanding the export of Jordan's phosphate rock has not been achieved. Due
to the collapse of the economies of key eastern European importing countries and more onerous
conditions for the import of rock in India, world phosphate trade deteriorated substantially in the
early-1990s. Jordan's phosphate rock exports, forecast at appraisal to increase progressively to 7.4
million tonnes (mt) by 1996, declined from the 1986 level of 5.3 mt to only 4.4 mt in 1996 and are
expected to be below 5.0 mt in 1997. Nevertheless, through aggressive marketing strategies, JPMC
has maintained its world market share of approximately 14 percent and anticipates that this will
increase to about 18-19 per cent over the next 5 years due primarily to the high quality of Jordan
rock products, expanding world markets, and the now limited reserves and declining rock export
capacity in the United States. Although Jordan's overall phosphate production and export capacity
has been scaled back from targets developed during appraisal, the new low cost project development
at Shidiya has replaced higher cost traditional mine operations, giving Jordan a stronger base to
continue to compete successfully in world markets.



10.         Institutional Development. Building on the substantial development of JPMC
under the Shidiya Mine Project (Loan 2902-JO), the Borrower has further refined its institutional
structure and focus. JPMC management staff in Amman has been upgraded with commercially-
oriented professionals and the management at the Aqaba fertilizer plant and at Shidiya has been
further upgraded. JPMC Marketing, Projects, Production and Finance Department staff have
developed a more integrated and aggressive approach to corporate planning and a Strategic Planning
Unit has been formally created within the Finance Department to sustain a cost-driven production
planning strategy and to further improve project financial analysis and corporate financial
management. The JPMC Mining and Fertilizer Units are now further integrated and the vertical
integration of Jordan's phosphate mine and fertilizer industries has been substantially increased.
The Borrower has entered into a series of international joint ventures, including the Indo-Jordan
Company (IJC), which includes IFC participation, and the Nippon-Jordan Chemical Company
(NJCC), each of which will likely stand alone in terms of financial benefits and will permit a much
enhanced and diverse product mix. Under a phase of technical assistance under Loan 2902-JO,
production planning and financial management techniques were reviewed. Although JPMC has
aggressively developed detailed production planning models during the project implementation,
these have proved cumbersome to operate and largely inflexible. Nonetheless, JPMC is in a better
position to maintain a strong commercially-oriented focus and to improve its international
competitiveness, a position that will be further enhanced through the recently established Strategic
Planning Unit under the JPMC Finance Department.
I1.         Environmental Improvements. No serious environmental issues were foreseen at
either the Shidiya beneficiation plant or at the fertilizer complex and none have developed. The
beneficiation plant incorporates full dust extraction equipment and acceptable facilities for disposal
of slimes and effluents. Vibratory screens, reclaim facilities, conveyors and all transfer points are
enclosed to limit dust emissions. Phosphate fines and sub-commercial rock grades are collected at
the mine site and utilized in the feed stock to the fertilizer complex. The Aqaba fertilizer plant was
originally engineered to exacting environmental standards and poses no environmental concern.
12.         Financial Objectives. Significant financial and economic benefits from the project
were estimated at project appraisal. During the development impact assessment (mid-term review),
these benefits were downgraded from those originally estimated but were found to be acceptable, a
position that was confirmed at loan closing (Part II, Tables 8A-D). The economic rates of return,
recalculated after loan closing at 21 and 15 per cent for the beneficiation and fertilizer components
respectively (as compared to the originally forecast 26 and 28 per cent respectively) underscore the
beneficial impact of the project on the Jordanian economy. The rates of return have been reduced
by increased project (tumkey contract) costs. Financial benefits of the beneficiation component of
the project are affected by increased port fees. The financial rate of return of the beneficiation plant
component is adversely affected also by government imposition, during the final stage of project
processing, of a JD5.0 (US$7.0) per tonne production tax. The production tax is essentially a
windfall profits tax, representing an opportunity taken by the government to withdraw a significant
portion of JPMC profits to fund development in other sectors of the economy. Although the tax
may be considered to be in the overall interest of the country in the short-term and indeed, the
payment of royalties, land rent and/or similar dues to government would be appropriate for the
extraction of any non-renewable resource, the resulting and overall fiscal environment created by



- 5 -
the government appears to be arduous compared to other international mining arenas and practices,
and will tend to deter potential private interest in JPMC. In addition, the present fiscal environment
limits the company's ability to contribute to funding its future corporate expansions. Although
project delays have occurred associated with (i) initial procurement processing delays; (ii) the
impact of the crisis in the Gulf; and (iii) beneficiation plant start-up delays, the impact of these
implementation delays have been mitigated somewhat by the depressed nature of world phosphate
rock markets. The financial rates of return, now forecast at 14 and 13 per cent for the beneficiation
plant and fertilizer complex components respectively, confirm that the project will contribute to the
future financial health and stability of JPMC and, through a reduction in overall JPMC production
costs, to the future competitiveness of the Jordan phosphate industry, and can thus be considered as
satisfactory. The substantial rates of return have been achieved in a declining market position due to
the Borrower's focus on the lower cost (Shidiya) project development and its phasing with declining
reserves and production at traditional mines. (The financial rate of return of the beneficiation plant
component of the project in a more internationally competitive fiscal environment would likely be
in the 15-18 per cent range).
13.         Public Sector Management. JPMC represents an example of a public sector
company operating on a commercial basis and able to design and implement projects successfully.
JPMC Projects Department staff produced a bankable feasibility study; handled international
procurement in an expeditious manner through the difficult Crisis in the Gulf, and organized project
construction and supervised turnkey contractors with a high level of coordination and efficiency.
The project has improved JPMC's financial position to the extent that the international community
and private interests would find the company attractive, subject only to government introducing a
fiscal/regulatory environment based on international business practices, and broadly comparable and
competitive with mining industry regimes worldwide.
C.   Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
14.         Based on the sector policy and institutional achievements, the near achievement of
physical objectives, and the forecast attainment of acceptable financial and economic benefits, the
project can be considered a success. The implementation record of the project is satisfactory, albeit
that procurement delays occurred due to redesign (capacity expansion) of the beneficiation plant and
the need to undertake a two-stage bidding process with pre-qualification, and the crisis in the Gulf
interrupted procurement processing. As a consequence, contracting and construction of the fertilizer
and beneficiation plants were delayed.
15.         Factors not Subject to the Borrower's Control. At the outset of project
implementation, it was recognized that substantial coarse ore stocks of A1/A3 phosphate ore had
been created during implementation of the previous project (Loan 2902-JO) and that production of
A2 direct export ore was lower than originally planned (due to variations found in A2 ore density
and thickness). A decision was taken to expand the beneficiation plant component incorporating
additional (minimum) 40 per cent capacity. Although it was recognized that additional costs would
be incurred by this plant capacity expansion, it was recognized also that additional financial and
economic benefits would accrue. In addition, the original plan to undertake a single-stage
procurement process was accepted as impractical for the relatively complex plant design and that



- 6 -
two-stage bidding, with pre-qualification of contractors, would be more appropriate. The crisis in
the Gulf occurred immediately prior to the revised date for issue of technical (first-stage) bid
documentation and lead to an accumulated delay in implementation of almost 2 years.
Subsequently, further delay occurred due to the withdrawal of Kuwait Fund financing which
obliged the Borrower to revise the project financing plan. Yet further delay occurred as the
Borrower arranged loans to secure Letter of Credit arrangements for the beneficiation plant turnkey
contract. The beneficiation plant turnkey contract became effective in early-1994, an accumulated
delay of almost 3 years. Following mechanical completion of the beneficiation plant in early- 1996,
in line with the turnkey contract schedule, commissioning of the washing (Al ore) section of the
beneficiation plant was completed successfully. However, commissioning of the flotation (A3 ore)
section of the plant will be delayed a further 18 months (commissioning is now scheduled for
completion mid-1997) while difficulties identified during plant commissioning are rectified. Target
production (A1/A3) of 2.0-2.2 million tonnes concentrates per year, as per the redesigned
beneficiation plant, is now scheduled in 1999. The deterioration in world phosphate demand during
the project implementation period seriously affected the Borrower's exports (including the export of
Shidiya rock products). This lead the company to revise its marketing and production forecasts
downwards and put pressure on the company's management to arrange appropriate phasing of
Shidiya and output from its traditional mines. Procurement for the fertilizer plant rehabilitation
turnkey contract was delayed initially while JPMC revised procurement documentation, originally
prepared for self-financing, to conform to Bank procurement guidelines. Subsequent negotiations
with the only responsive bidder were protracted due to the onset of the crisis in the Gulf and to fine-
tuning of contractual requirements.
16.         Factors Subject to the Borrower's Control. The finalization of beneficiation plant
turnkey contract documentation was delayed by the Borrower's decision to further review and
optimize plant design prior to finalizing ICB documents. Following receipt of bids after the crisis in
the Gulf, and recognizing the alternative technical designs provided by suppliers in individual bids,
the Borrower decided with Bank concurrence, to review again international best practices through
an international study tour.
D.   Project Sustainability
17.         The probability that the beneficiation plant component of the project will reach and
maintain its physical objective of producing 2.0-2.2 mtpy tonnes Al/A3 concentrates is considered
to be high, bearing in mind the long and successful track record of the Borrower in developing and
operating phosphate beneficiation plants and the substantial resources mobilized to address the
present flotation commissioning difficulties. It is now planned that the Project physical objective
will be reached, on a steady-state basis, in 1999. The fertilizer complex rehabilitation has been
completed successfully and output has almost continuously exceeded 90 per cent of the revised
name-plate capacity (740,000 tonnes DAP per year). Thus, after attainment of target output at the
beneficiation plant, the Project is considered likely to be fully sustainable. Although design,
procurement and commissioning delays have occurred and project benefits are somewhat lower than
that forecast at appraisal, the benefits forecast to accrue are acceptable (para. 12).



- 7 -
E.    Bank Performance
18.         The performance of the Bank was satisfactory. During project preparation, Bank
staff assisted the Borrower to phase the beneficiation plant facilities with the mine development
under the first project (Loan 2902-JO) permitting the continued development of the low unit
production cost Shidiya area. Bank staff also supported all phases of the procurement process,
particularly in reviewing the capacity expansion of the beneficiation plant to assist the Borrower to
ensure that technical designs of project components were optimized. During successive supervision
missions, Bank staff assisted the Borrower to maintain a strong focus not only on procurement
processing but also on corporate planning and financial management to maximize financial
resources, adapt to difficult market conditions, and to secure future financial health and stability.
19.         A key contribution of the Bank was the interim assessment of the development
impact of the project. This assessment was invaluable in reassessing the likely benefits that would
result from project implementation and corporate planning actions necessary to ensure that project
and corporate benefits were maximized. The assessment was undertaken (June 1993) coincidentally
at a time when the Borrower, and other world phosphate producers, were experiencing serious
marketing constraints. It facilitated the Borrower's focus on the urgent need to adjust quickly its
corporate strategies, production planning and overall financial management to changing marketing
circumstances, and to optimize the integration of Shidiya with traditional mine's output, consistent
with maximizing cash flow, liquidity and profitability.
20.         The main weaknesses of the Bank's performance were (i) approving a project
schedule that failed to recognize the need for two-stage bidding processes with contractor pre-
qualification, critical for relatively complex plant designs and (ii) forecasting world phosphate
market demand. At appraisal, Jordan's rock export levels were forecast to rise progressively to a
level of 7.4 million tonnes by 1996. Although the deterioration in world market conditions could
not have been foreseen easily at the time of appraisal, more realistic analysis of risks could have
helped the Borrower focus better on the importance of production planning, and to anticipate and
prepare better for the financial distress that resulted in 1993 from a delayed corporate adjustment to
deteriorating market conditions.
F. Borrower Performance
21.         The performance of the Borrower (JPMC - the project implementing agency) in
preparing and implementing the project has been satisfactory. During what proved to be very
difficult and taxing procurement, contracting and commissioning periods for the beneficiation plant
component, compounded by the crisis in the Gulf, the Borrower has focused on mobilizing all
internal resources to accelerate project implementation and construction. During beneficiation plant
construction and commissioning, the Borrower has upgraded its management and operations staff
and has mobilized substantial supplier and other external resources to focus on solving quickly
issues that have arisen. The feasibility study prepared by the Borrower was of an international and
bankable standard and greatly facilitated the Bank's appraisal of the project. Project procurement
was delayed initially due to major revisions in technical specifications of the beneficiation plant and
the need to undertake a two-stage bidding process with contractor pre-qualification. Project



- 8 -
infrastructure was developed successfully and progressively ahead of schedule. The government (as
Guarantor) has maintained a focus on the difficult issue of corporate responsibility for phosphate
rail transport in Jordan and although no new institutional/financial arrangements have been
implemented, government has assisted in negotiating revised rail tariffs that provide for a better
financial security for the Aqaba Railway Corporation. Government also ensured that the issue of
new share capital in 1993 was fully subscribed. In addition, government, even though the principal
shareholder in JPMC, continued a hands-off approach, leaving company management to conduct its
affairs in its traditional and commercially-oriented manner.
22.         The Borrower and Guarantor participated in the Bank's development impact
assessment with enthusiasm and commitment, agreeing with the estimate of lower, though
satisfactory, economic and financial rates of return, and in the need to adjust corporate strategies to
weakened world market demand and to focus better overall production planning and financial
management.
23.         The main weakness of the Borrower was in not reacting quickly in 1992/93 to the
tight market conditions and not adjusting its corporate and production planning quickly enough.
Technical assistance was mobilized (under Loan 2902-JO) to assist the Borrower to upgrade
production planning and financial management techniques. However, a somewhat complex
computerized model was developed. The Borrower accepted this outcome but has found some
limitations in utilizing this important planning tool fully to provide quick evaluations of the
financial benefits of alternative corporate production strategies.
24.         In relation to loan covenants, the Borrower and Guarantor were in general
compliance throughout project implementation. Immediately prior to project appraisal, government
(the Guarantor) introduced a rather arduous fiscal regime for the phosphate industry in Jordan
encompassing a phosphate production tax, truck axle-load charges and increased phosphate port
fees to be paid by the Borrower. These factors, together with the Borrower's failure to adjust
corporate strategies to deteriorating world market conditions, led to failure to maintain a financial
working ratio as covenanted. As corporate planning within the company further develops, it is not
anticipated that the Borrower will face difficulty in complying with all financial covenants in future
years.
G.   Assessment of Outcome
25.         On the bases that (i) project construction has been successfully completed, (ii) the
rehabilitated fertilizer plant has exceeded almost continuously 90 per cent of the revised name-plate
capacity, (iii) the Borrower is committing substantial resources to finalize present beneficiation
plant commissioning; (iv) full beneficiation plant output is anticipated in 1999 and should be
sustainable; and (v) world phosphate markets are now recovering; the project outcome is rated as
satisfactory. The Borrower is poised now to return to earlier years of sound financial health and
security, to make a continued strong contribution to foreign exchange earnings and the country's
overall economy, and to attract private sector interest for future investments.



- 9 -
H. Future Operation
26.          The Borrower's overall corporate plan is focused clearly on the low unit production
cost Shidiya development area and its orderly inter-phasing with existing mines. The Borrower's
Plan for Operations (Annex 1) foresees Al/A2/A3 rock production reaching the target level of 3.4
million tonnes per year in 1999. The Borrower's Projects, Production, Marketing and Finance
Department management and staff, and Shidiya/Aqaba Fertilizer Complex management, are focused
in a way that will likely assure the success of the mine/beneficiation and fertilizer plant project
components.
27.          The key indicators for monitoring and evaluating the future operation of the Shidiya
beneficiation plant and the fertilizer complex, although not identified during project appraisal or
loan negotiations, include for the beneficiation plant: rate of recovery of world phosphate rock
markets, quantity and quality of ore (washing and flotation) feed and of concentrate production, unit
costs and performance (concentrate and grade recoveries, reagent consumptions, etc.) and for the
fertilizer plant: unit costs/efficiency of the various sections of the plant (particularly phosphate
process recoveries), raw materials input prices and consumptions, and intermediate/final fertilizer
product prices (Annex 1). A project impact evaluation by the Operations Evaluation Department is
not recommended as a priority.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
28.          The key lessons learned from the implementation of the project are:
(a)   with relatively complex project designs, implementation schedules
must allow for finalization of technical aspects of a two-stage ICB
process and pre-qualification procedures;
(b)   even with complex project components, substantial benefits can be
realized if the enterprise is run on an autonomous basis and along
quasi-commercial lines, has a committed management team and
experienced operational staff, and gets sufficient support from the
government as the major shareholder;
(c)   under present governance, the Borrower faces substantial financing
constraints on its investment program;
(d)   mining is a high risk business that is best suited for private
investors who can assume such risks, and not for using scarce
fiscal resources under uncertain conditions;
(e)   since the Borrower is one of Jordan's leading companies and is
engaged in producing an internationally traded commodity, partial
or full privatization of the company can and should be considered
which could yield substantial financial and economic benefits;



- 10-
(f)   extra care needs to be exercised in doing base case and sensitivity/
risk analyses for projects relating to the export commodities (such
as phosphate ore and concentrates) that are subject to cyclical
trends, variable demand patterns, and economic and political
changes in importing countries; and
(g)  corporate management must be flexible enough in such cases to
quickly adjust corporate strategy to market fluctuations.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
INTEGRATED PHOSPHATE PROJECT (3172-JO)
Part II - Statistical Annexes



- 12-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.     Achievements of Objectives  Substantial    Partial  Negligible   Not appficabi
Macro policies                 Ol         O           O            [l
Sector policies               E3J         0           0            0
Financial objectives           0          E3          0            O
Institutional development      E3         0           0            0
Physical objectives            E3l        0           0            0
Poverty reduction              0          O           O            E3
Gender issues                  0          O           O            E3
Other social objectives        O          O           O            INJ
Environmental objectives      cio         0           0            0
Public sector management      l1          0           0            0
Private sector management      O          E           O            E3
Highly
B.  Project sustainability      Satisfactry   Satisfactory  Deficient
0
Highly
C.  Bank performance            Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Deficien
Identification                  O             E3          0
Preparation Assistance          O             ElI         0
Appraisal                       El            E           0
Supervision                     El            fl          E
Highly
D.  Borrower performance        Satisfactory   Satisfactoy  Deficient
Preparation                     E             E3          0
Implementation                  E             E3          El
Covenant compliance             O             E3          0
Operation (if applicable)       0             E           E
Highly
E.  Assessment of outcome       Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Deficient
0             ED          E



- 13 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan\Title                          Purpose                      Year of        Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
1. Jordan Fertilizer       Phosphate Fertilizer Plant Development
Design/construction engineering            1975
2. Potash Engineering      Potash extraction refining                  1975         Completed
3. First Arab Potash       Potash extraction expansion                 1978         loans close
4. Second Arab Potash      Potash extraction expansion                 1987
5. Shidiya Mine Project    Phosphate Mine Development                  1989
Following Operations
Under
1. Indo-Jordan Chemical    Phosphoric acid plant development           1994         construction
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project cycle            Date planned                  Date actual/latest
estimate
Identification                             6/88                           6/88
Appraisal                                  12/88                       06/89, 10/89
Negotiations                                     _                        12/89
Board presentation                         12/89                          02/90
Signing                      l                                            07/90
Effectiveness                  __04/91
Midterm review                             06/93                          06/93
Project completion                         06/95                          07/97
Loan closing                               12/95                          05/96
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US Thousands)
FY91       FY92        FY93      FY94       FY95      FY96
Appraisal                    2200.0        8900.0    1700.0   21800.0    25000.0        -
Actual                          0          2000.0       0       6977.0    23960.0   25000.0
Actual as % of estimate         0            22.2       0         32.0        95.8     100.0
Date of final disbursement   05/09/96



- 14 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators(1)             Estimated                   Actual
Beneficiation Plant Component
Turnkey Construction Completion                     100                        100
Al Concentrate Production Capacity mtpy             0.82                       1.10
A3 Concentrate Productivity Capacity mtpy           0.66                       0.93
Fertilizer Plant rehabilitation
Turnkey construction completion                     100                        100
DAP Production    lOOOt P205 equiv.                 740                       680+
Phosphoric Acid Production lOOOt P205                59                       15-20
1/ Specific project implementation indicators were not outlined in the SAR but were
developed by Bank staff during initial stages of project implementation.
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study                        Purpose                 Status                  Impact of Study
1. Phosphate Beneficiation    Review international best      Completed      Assisted finalization of ICB technical
practices and refine plant                    specifications
engineering
2. Materials management       Improve working capital        Completed      Improved materials management practices and
management                                    working capital management ongoing
3. Production planning/financial  Upgrade corporate planning and    Completed  Improved corporate planning/financial
management                 financial stability                           management



- 15 -
Table 7A: Project Cost
SAR ESTIMATE                ACTUAL COST
Local I Foreign    Total   Local I Foreign  I Total
US$ Million                 US$ Million
Beneficiation Plant                   7.1      39.6     46.7   13.6      79.9     93.5
Support Equipment                     1.1      4.8       5.9   2.3        -        2.3
Fertilizer Plant Equipment 2/         3.7     21.1      24.8   2.0       33.8      35.8
Civil Works & Infrastructure         10.4      12.8     23.2   5.8       7.5       13.3
Dust Control Equipment 3/             0.3       2.2      2.5     -        1.7      1.7
Engineering & Technical Assistance    2.2       1.0      3.2   2.1       2.3       4.4
Base Cost                            24.8      81.5    106.3   25.8      125.2    151.0
Physical Contingencies                1.4       9.2     10.6     -        -         -
Price Contingencies                   6.2      10.3     16.5     -        -         -
Installed Cost                       32.4    101.0    133.5   25.8      125.2    151.0
Incremental Working capital           0.8      15.5     16.2   4.1       32.4    36.5 4/
Total Project Cost                   33.2    116.5    149.7   29.9       157.6    187.5
Interest during Construction            -      12.0        -   6.9       7.0       13.9
Total Financing Required             33.2    128.5    161.7   36.8       164.6    201.4
1/ Costs include insurance and freight charges, equipment erection, commissioning, operator training, and an initial
inventory of spare parts
2/ Lump sum turnkey contract for plant rehabilitation, including engineering services, procurement and construction
management
3/ Includes incremental costs of dust collectors not included in Shidiya Mine Project - Loan 2902-JO.
4/ Increased increments making capital requirements necessitated due to delays in commissioning of beneficiation plant
Table 7B: Project Financing
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE                ACTUAL COST
Local   Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign    Total
US$ Million                 US$ Million
IBRD                                   -      25.0      25.0    -        25.0     25.0
Arab Fund (Beneficiation Plant)      4.8      22.4      27.2   5.4       21.8     27.2
Kuwait Fund                          4.7      22.5      27.2
Arab Fund (Fertilizer Plant)                  16.3      16.3    -        15.3      15.3
Islamic Development Bank                       9.0       9.0    -        9.0       9.0
Local Bank Loans                    -        -         -       4.1      26.3      30.4
JPMC Cash Generation                23.7      33.3      57.0   27.3      67.2     94.5
Total Financing                     33.2     128.5    161.7   36.8      164.6    201.4



""'9
(4643
_~~~~~~                                                                                                          ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _. _  ,   _68W49696
of r  $too If   @# po o    0't  fit V   #dtlt  off,t  off or  filut   coul   ffet'i  Do"  tt  I  e's   #11 to  logo o   1ttsl tW  *toi ltiolit ftetl    *           0              e"# fill ffftittito""tx ti^ttf tt
-N -a        -1                       o   - tt              -,t gt~wt-Wt-61T ---                             -~-n Wr  --htl-  ---6 1-- tlt  --t r-         -lf i t 1     IF  t-rl t-Al tV-                             t
*  i   i    *  9 9 *    , t   99 8 D    6 9 *   9 .9 e  8  9 e   0 9 D   9  0 a   9 9 O   9 9     64 6 D   0 6 *    9 9 t   t9 e *  9909     096     e1       e       o       a        *                                " tI90   9)
fi Il    OIt  199,1  Le t    I ef I  ai    ef         etttts           es    os         *f      tl tl           t'                                                                                           lOt^t#wO
[Iv--tI     vll            I 711111    1tI  7     II. 1 1- t t-tt I I-  I    -ittl-I'tl--it Uft l-tItt - l            r--Ir          t                9 b-Ir           o-trt0itt
t  t64  80969 t  ,661   866*9   # t 06 8sT t06t 69t t9   (                 94   (       t(        9t         c ts06   19t48   te6t I t0t I  t    tot I  o 0  0  6  6   o       * 6
top'# I41" m' II'               I too te  too I   tI T'(  fIto    110 IIe* Is Ito                   *{ (ist   Et *f                  e SI'    tll t   0                                                        tof
I   8   e98   e698    e61    e691    e(9    e696    e691    99o   8f6g9 f          tt      too t     t9 I   99*1     sp       6s    o6      o6t    6          o        o        t      e                                     9v94J949)419
1st   oe Fet   loot    iteot   lsost    oset   ite't   ctilt   two   9 nt'i   Its'l   tog           ttot   9tt       a       ea                                                 eIlssr
D       *       * 6     P       6        6       0       0                         *99  964  *0 *69  (944    *99     691     6*9   6996    09(        619 *            6 e              6                        14'e 1V0U91Vt   809MtY
*       0       0               0        0       0                0       6        0                        0        466     9t9P 999          68      6       0       0          
9, 94!  999(9 t 99   96999   9999 tls            6999    9999    U9t9   69nt91t  e 6 tt   9t!!  tOtStt_ t t tt t L tl!                    _t*                  *       *        t ________________*9                      9196499 tftOt
I4 99  69996   669t 6999   699t                      /set-to *9t99 9   69ts  gt-It  ltep IS n,           S t  t 98t    a          0       6        6       *        e       *                                               t6lt8r
(y.
"O't         "M-t   em- t   stit-i    %414      6       0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11t  It| e
tic"llll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t I                                                                ot*oMA" teIrefl
e       $*o s*et    loot    loot    loot    toot    toot    toot    loot    oenT1    sell|e                  *b        "              tool     iet    sell   coal    mlX  im
iFw{,-fn t@vmm temsO "svtet
twEtatrnt- tNlwtt tls4*@*Zt*ntaruet" ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ 1499(9949
09   0069    6001    6069    0669    0609    606*    0669    6069    0669    0669    6069e 664)    OP.t'  9469  6  6  6      6        6       0       0       0                                       99



lm.41115161A 58#554 DEi JUSPa.J5
916a4140,10 f"G ,M11 t5as5i'csaaa5l40itl
G         lost                   ass                                                     4                                                  a...                                         ua 
A wsa...ac.".-eae
a....  ...  a....                 a~  ~  ~~~ sass,6  cam..#   of a..   aa  as     sa  mc     a.aals 00 0  Msas     *I Isac.  Iss&       es 1 ass   stal,0     a,   jla   IMis am    40cl        ase      ascl       S im        uc. c6               c    .     .
.. "**s                                      e   , Sa   , as ,,,,a   ,.ell.. 5.515                        1555      lass.   sa.           alma         s.a        al       a  leas              ac         40         4 .54 X.alas          ssa       alas       as1       alas  s A    a   a
.^2._.< ..... *; * a                    as.'i,s..b.          it        s.a        5.         a,,        1..    en..           I...       Ill       81        ; a         a
*               A * W          a. I  b.a       I.4@            5          0         50                                                                                                                                      se5
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H                                                                                                                                                         A         I          A 
i..ds*...                                 a    asass    .a   .  _laws}.   Isaa    [alma.1    ec.|.   lucas                 sales      salsa      lami       sac._.1  .   _aa.aSal ee  * ms.1se.a5o.5              1.iS.   1 1  l  .  Wse   Seas   ssa       b         aaSO
a4s., ... a...                               .    sa.Xaxs      a 5),    sw         s  Ia *sss   a       Ssa 5)c  a     las   5, .ful    4a.,.e.    sau,   ja.s.i.       ass t eec        6 asscc  mai    sea ic    smash       scissi   masasa    masIs    mamas         a sacs
c.,*                                        c     ass        las        aa|ss      55554   55554        LSS4  s.l&b           IlS        581555    5aa        has        laDis      55,5*     8 s&ass     555sz      Cas       sassl      eisa*     i&|s i^   * bs isisf f s&eass&
(aslaa.a.a.ja*4                                               1|| .....  .* I1z III4  ......t.I,i......t.Il                                                               *I'I       *111       1101 . s9I......N *....01       S5 *11     sega         #4      **       *8
r-^ .,,X                                   *         *      a         ||         s.            X                                           J  ii1l*aX1 1         a          a   susi       51)          eta        .ja     sa*              . 
l..b...,,,_,_,..                         ,      ..is.....aaea....S    ...I5  ,s  ....a ella   ,us    .. isu   -                  c... _su    -  ee  .  35II..Lit.....55.leb.... . _ .1a.14_.....5.aejt. . J .u.... ..Jae.IW.._&ss.ge                ,*-- aL.__Jj _aL.... hA|_&& 1 ]fil 
Pa  _as    ..                                                     S               S_                                                                                                                                                                         _a 
s~~ ac..ss.aa.a.scas~~~  a    a         s      sacama   mcI lass    51.1155~a aSI  a    6% ebhli4    I mI55                SIl(v    4 I3 Ia     $ 5550    14.155      5.4 15   Isa:          gal       gm           b       ss                   45
e|.maa.                    .i                       s cs i
~i.
-:1.1    11 S I'll  S 11.11~~~~~~~1   Sam  6:1  S :6  S 10     lit                                                                    It: ;Is   1844~~~~~~O



u
U
I,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
VT- re    I  re I  UT-ost---Ml~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ret
IIW-III I -W-       -.-    -,;--$---;  - i-;                           _~_                                                        9t_99 "JII
11111  19991  1111191611  11111  1991   69999  99996  996 41 *9  ot99to I   tott6    I   fit I696    lot9   oi  s9 9.f     9,6                      of 9 6
etre       lit    list   I"I f@.2la1t  Isl t   1'l   ill't  II@ I   toot I          @'* Ito    2 It' oill   12N't  92t @01   @2                        @       *       *       **rXI lfllII|X
OCl    b                ii- ii              B            tt-       - w l W r-l-;-a-e                                 it I   ital-   ilot Itil--lt--ti-- ;l-                           nfi                                                   twil       il
Ililt~ ~~~~I  tott        fitt toti     oll ttto  tit o tt | L 't  I t ti titto  @tot9  t     to tittt__lilt a.................................... !!   10 ''t!t.!tt   t _ewssl
tit4 t'tl    lillt t     ot   tooa Itt o. o et    tot   got t  tot  gotle  lt tote    totu to rc tt tow1   11t lo of  Ot tt  II c                                         *                                                      tIezblt
-   9  *10 a          t t  owl * 99 I9 t        t  Om a   NMI    too9I9   9I99 6 t                  we I9   96  9   99999t  99999  fill  *           *       *e       *       *        *       g                                           9     IJttollS
9I 6 Itet   9t9t1   Itet   Itet   6661    9969t   666*    It666    669*    9966    9    1    i     let     tt 69 9   6              *        6       6       *        6 f              *                                                        9919.lootI
*0           6      6       6       6       9   *            9       99      99       66      990      119     699      69      9699 e   9699 Ilt       Itl       *       *        *       *       *                                 ty9o tl966 rr9tg1t,19
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ "of I"                                                                                                                                                                            lF0Ms't ttkR
19119  19111  9999*  9*969  6996,  911*1I 99169  69919   @t9 6              t9 In LI, 69196   *9996   l.it 1,  *u  n9 9669          9                                 e 6  * 6                 * 9   9   6                                  91991916 00
tY 
9669   tce      6669    9cet   96909   6669c   663    tc6t   9069t   6661    t66          90C      96      6099      699      6        *       *       *        *       *       *        *                                                          01991
tit  ei;; I li;4t i;liBSt til W1 6Xt-il~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ lilill-- ;;1~~~~~ ~~S ~~;-~~-a ~~&~~ ~~ | *1.90e ;910ii919.I v
199199.6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tettwtu 6,19
911  0.    66    661 966    69rce         97   9s.69   9.9 6                 69      99      66       96       69      699     96       99       99     99       99       ,9     96
titt   teot   lewt   leu    tuet    e  tooi    tcu    t" ieet    ebti    **i    tatl  t  *st      2     tjix    te; 1"1 ;6 9             et t     t'l    *t'l 9t9
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9991.691 __ _ .69.  __ . . . _ _ 1
91 199990    61911. 999V19919s99f 91  9919
99.919 199hn  919919999 19t9911969019te



0
t*09      909        49*       009         09        90         loot       og g      *no n o     909        9199       9949      90         *w*i       ggite       gno *      ..,9           1,1   t,, @*.91   S                                           o,.oo 099 94 191n00t (I
Ut5        U rt~(9 U 11                 W    9    W    911t I69 t O tt  t  r( 1o,I  if),                           -      9itt-I till  190  ItoI-f nIl9--   9 99l 9tI9! t-I 9oI1o                         t if    II                                                           9 0'
*e   et  es     rs         e        ee~~~~~I -si ir    -i t i -           It --n    att   Iitt as"   owt ie mis irl mv1* solose    11n   i.n-t**
11(11      It9      llt-11t1r-1   ttt-tt-       -tt-     l     ne--19 r- 1699-999 -t                t 9     191(9-_ 16IF1         Its I       9(lI9--    il I 9    I9t9t    991(999    99999  9In  -          1999999I99 (I                                     '         09*  99
'I,        It        MI          41I        itI"     li I S             99             off  9t_III  -__t                                      9- I (It, (, - -- ,11" - Il  *_                                                         99990 ,.0999*0
it, ",    "                                         "I % I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~90                             9999       09
_       t    of :1s fi all                                                                                                                                                                      * off   of all- of t    ft"o ofof I   t  '   1I 1'
9)90(99of919         l 990 I9         #909lit 9           1(   (909        11J,0(9    99 919 I     WI.(      9 9It I9tI   It, W   1  999 1    9 ItI   fit11 to   It9        ol9t 999    s ( 1999   99 o9   lit it       Io if                                .*0...I-*'
t.to1          t It.  W1         I ff. l (ei 41     ((9 I el   to.to 9 6  1           9        lit4       9..-       I          ol         it,'     1. ( . 99.9o  .- nI  i  91.9      991         - 9  1    oft to    to8 . e
ort  {rrtf   Wlt .-tttI;ttrtz-t   tg r-tet    . t   -tl{  -z l }--X1  t-l t--  l ft   111-tEn-  in -lift                                                                                      s-tOlr                                    , --n"e-1
to                                                                 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~99V09 
S    11        0~~~~p  01- J                                 9                                          0          0          0               
-III   1  3 %           to )0   090        IfII   111 %)1      I11 |       1 00           0 *)1).    J09. ;1  ;                  f. .                                      I  ;p      ]     P--- III  *t.-1      P-- -11 I          -
f$1,91~~ ~ I   I. Ill                                           -   .  .    I      1o      . goo   _. Ill  -_  tI-~ . r.  --- - 0 e . ~ f  tt1 t. .- I's   t.  "tw       0   I n    li of       I e..- of^ - t l    off to
eXwn ll                                                                                                wsnlw~~~~~~~~~~ell"ltl
e    9999909J999 nn9" 1 IIISI 9919999 999999 11
99   v 9999 9999  1991   99lu  09.9999 99999999999
-~~~~~~~~~9199999999090909999



- 20 -
Table 8E
Economic and Financial Costs and Benefits
Underlying Assumptions
A. Beneficiation Component
1.    The real prices of inputs and outputs are assumed to remain at the 1996 level over the life of the
project. Projected production levels are outlined in detailed in the project file and summarized in Table
8A.
2.   the economic value of phosphate rock was derived on the basis P205 content and on the ruling
1996 world prices FOB Aqaba port. The effects of all subsequent joint venture arrangements and intra
company transfer pricing were eliminated. Exchange rate equals JDO.709 to the US$. Phosphate Rock
price assumptions in 1996 terms are:
Price
Product Type           US$/ton
al - 60/62              10
al - 68/70             33
a2 - 70/72             38
a2 - 73/75             41
a3 - 75/77             45
a3 - 60/62              10
Weighted Average           36
3.    Economic value of major project inputs was based on international border prices with specific
adjustments being made for:
Conversion
Retail Price (JD)  Border Price (JD)     Factor
Fuel oil (tons)         72,000            68,200             0.95
Diesel (tons)          125,000           108,600             0.87
Electricity (Kwh)       0.047             0.027              0.56
Weighted Average                                             0.86
Source: JPMC
The production tax JD5 per ton of product has been eliminated for the purposes of arriving at the
economic rate of retur.



- 21 -
4.   Incremental unit costs of production were derived by element (water, power, fuel oil, etc.) on a
unit consumption basis from JPMC's detailed 1996 5 year production and financial plan. These unit
costs and consumption levels are contained in the project file and aggregated as follows:
Unit cost
(JD/ton)
Costs of Production           4.1
Domestic transport            3.7
Marketing (include port fees)  2.6
Production Tax                5.0
Total cost per ton of Phos.   15.4
Rock
5.    Net incremental working capital requirements derived on the basis of (i) 60 days of sales
equivalent for accounts receivable, and (ii) 14, 30, and 25 days of cost of sales equivalent for finished
stocks, work in process and accounts payable respectively.
B. Fertilizer Component
6.    Production level for the unrehabilitated case was based on historic trends and assumed to be 72%
of 800,000 tons of DAP achieved by the plant since commissioning. Production costs (based on JPMC's
detailed production and financial plan) were adjusted accordingly.
7.    Steady state production of, and prices estimated for the rehabilitated plant project as follows:
Annual Production   Market Price
(tons)         ($/ton)
Bulk DAP                          750,000           217
Bagged DAP                         50,000           236
Phosphoric Acid                    70,000           278
Al Fluoride                        20,000            763
Weighted Ave price/ton DAP                          264
8.    Major imported inputs comprising sulfur, ammonia etc. are exempt from import duties and other
taxes. Weighted average conversion factor (incorporating shadow prices for those listed under 3 able
and for phosphate rock derived from both A1/A3 and A2 projects of 0.92) is estimated to be 0.97.



- 22 -
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement         Section      Covenant Type   Present Status      Original        Revised              Description of covenant                  Comments
Fulfillment     Fulfillment
Date            date
Loan           2.02 (b)           1                C                                          Borrower to maintain Special Account
3.02             5                C                                          Borrower to maintain Supervision and
Cost Control Unit
3.03             5                C                                          Borrower to enter into Project
Management Services Agreement for
fertilizer plant rehabilitation
4.02 (a), (b)        6               C                                          Borrower to operate and maintain its
facilities in accordance with sound
practices and environmental and health
and safety standards and enforce and
monitor environmental and health/safety
standards
4.03             2                C                                          Borrower to maintain insurance
5.01             1                C                                          Borrower to maintain separate records
and accounts and have these audited,
including Special Account
5.02, 5.03          2               C                                          Borrower to maintain debt service ratio    End-1996 working ratio
above 1.5, debt/equity ratio less than  remains slightly in excess of
60/40, a working ratio below 0.8, and  covenanted level due, in part,
update its Investment Plan             to the fiscal regime developed
by the Government.
Guarantee      Side Letter 1        12              CP                                          Government to submit proposals for     Government arranged revised
institutionaU financial arrangements for   rail tariffs
phosphate rail transport
Covenant types:                                                                                        Present Status:
I = Accounts/audits                             9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting                  C  = covenant complied with
2 = Financial                                   10 = Project implementation not covered                CD = complied with after delay
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds            by categories 1-9                                 CP = complied with partially
4 = Counterpart funding                         11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary              NC = not complied with
5 = Management aspects of the project                or other resources allocation
or executing agency                         12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants                          regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement                    13 = Other
8 = Indigenous people



- 23 -
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (Weeks)
Stage of Project         Staff Weeks
Cycle
Through Appraisal              38.1
Appraisal - Board              39.8
Board -
Effectiveness                 )74.5
Supervision                   )
Completion                      9.0
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
|  Performance Rating
Number                    Specialized           Imple-      Devel-      Types of
Month/      of      Days            Staff Skills        mentation    opment    problems -I
Stage of Project Cycle   Year    Persons       in          Represented I/         Status    Objectives
Field
Through appraisal           04/88       3        11             M, F, BC
12/88      3         9              M, F, E
03/89      6         20        M, F, FE, BC, FE (2)
06189      5         14--        M, F, BC'FE (2)
Appraisal through Board
Approval                    10/89       2        10              M, BC
Board Approval through      05/90       3        11             M, F, FE               1           1          P, LE
Effectiveness               03/91       1        3                 M                   2           1          P, CF
Supervision                 07/91      2         9                 M                   2           2            P
04/92      4         11             M, E, BC               2           2            P
12/92      2         12              M, BC                 2           2           P, F
06/93      4         13             M, F, BC               2           2          PC, D
12/93      4         16             M, F, BC               2           2
06/94      4       - 7              M, F, BC               5           5
01/95      2         12               M, F                 5           5            F
08/95       1        13                M                   5           5         F, O, CP
03/96      3         9              M, F, BC               5           5          F, CP
Completion Report           02/97      2         15             M, F, BC
1/ M-Mining engineer, F - Financial Analyst, E - Economist, Fe - Fertilizer Expert, BC - Beneficiation
Consultant
/ p- Procurement, LE - Loan Effectiveness, CF - Co-financing, D - Disbursement, F - Financial,
0 - Project Organization, CP - Corporate Planning



- 24 -
ANNEX 1
JORDAN PHOSPHATE MINES COMPANY
INTEGRATED PHOSPHATE PROJECT - LOAN 3172-JO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
AIDE-MEMOIRE - FEBRUARY 1997
1.          A World Bank mission (Christopher Wardell, Task Manager/Principal
Mining Engineer, Charles Husband, Senior Financial Analyst, and Jerry Cape, Phosphate
Beneficiation Consultant) visited Jordan from February 15 through 28, 1997.
2.          Together with representatives of the Borrower (Jordan Phosphate Mines
Company - JPMC) and the Guarantor (Government of Jordan, Ministry of Planning), the
mission discussed all aspects of project implementation and related issues, JPMC's Plan
for Operations, and focused on review of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
3.          JPMC's provided its contribution to the ICR including comments on the
project implementation, its performance as the Borrower and on the performance of the
Bank. JPMC provided also a Plan for Operations which was reviewed by the mission.
4.          The mission provided advice and support to JPMC on the contributions
provided. These inputs were essentially in the form of suggested clarifications and focus,
there being no major divergence of view between JPMC and the mission regarding the
project implementation record and related issues, experience and results of initial
operations, or the Plan for Operations of the project.
5.          Project construction has been completed successfully. The fertilizer plant
rehabilitation component of the project has been in full operation for over 2 years and
continuously exceeds over 90 per cent of its revised name-plate capacity. Mechanical
completion of the washing and flotation sections of the beneficiation plant component of
the project were completed in early-1996. Commissioning of the flotation section of the
plant has presented difficulties. These have been reviewed thoroughly by JPMC and are
expected to be resolved. Commissioning is now scheduled to be completed in June,
1997. This represents a measurable delay compared to the implementation schedule
developed during project appraisal. However, it is acknowledged that a number of
worldwide phosphate flotation plants have experienced poor performance during initial
commercial-scale operation because of the unique characteristics of individual ore



- 25 -
deposits. Delayed project expenditures have tended to mitigate the impact of project
implementation delays, yielding acceptable financial and economic returns, even though
somewhat lower than originally forecast at project appraisal.
6.          Agreement has been reached that major project implementation delays
related to (i) two-stage bidding/pre-qualification recommended by Bank staff; (ii)
optimizing technical specifications to expand beneficiation plant capacity; (iii) the crisis
in the Gulf and loss of Kuwait Funds financing; (iv) deteriorating world market
conditions; and (v) difficulties experienced during commissioning of the beneficiation
plant flotation section.
7.          The Plan for Operations prepared by JPMC (attached), highlights clearly
the company's focus on the low-cost Shidiya development and the criteria that are being,
or will be, used to monitor future performance. The overall corporate financial position
of the company is improving. The degree of improvement may not be adequately
expressed by the mid-1996 financial projections prepared by the company (attached to the
Plan for Operations) bearing in mind recent (1997) phosphate and fertilizer price
increases realized, and recent increases in Shidiya mine performance and overall
efficiency. Thus, the viability and sustainability of the project may be further enhanced.
8.          The mission confirmed that the Bank's draft ICR will be submitted for
review by the Borrower and the Government, within one month of the mission's return to
Washington, in order to facilitate Bank processing of the ICR within the present fiscal
year.
Amman, February 27, 1997



- 26 -
JORDAN PHOSPHATE MINES COMPANY LIMITED
INTEGRATED PHOSPHATE PROJECT - LOAN 3172-JO
Plan for Operations
1.          Introduction. Construction of both the beneficiation plant and fertilizer
plant rehabilitation components of the Integrated Phosphate Project have been completed.
Commissioning of the fertilizer plant was concluded successfully in late-1994.
Mechanical completion of the beneficiation plant was completed successfully in early-
1996, since which time, plant commissioning has been progressing. Commissioning of
the washing section (Al ore) of the plant was successfully completed in late, 1996. Some
difficulties have been experienced during commissioning and initial operation of the
flotation section of the beneficiation plant. These difficulties are now thoroughly
investigated and are expected to be resolved by July 1997, at which time the plant will
operate on a sustainable (steady-state) basis, and in accordance with the company's plan,
producing 1.10 mtpy Al concentrates and 0.930 million tonnes A3 concentrates, a total
output of 2.00 mtpy (minimum, based on 6000 operating hours per year).
2.          Marketing. Following the depressed nature of world phosphate trade in
recent years, there are now obvious signs that the market and demand for phosphate rock
is exceeding supply, primarily due to the limited reserves in, and declining phosphate
rock exports from, the United States, and the rejection of certain export rock supplies
from competing countries due to lower quality products with environmentally
unacceptable impurities. JPMC is now finding that market demand for its very high
quality rock products exceeds its ability to supply, for the first time in recent times.
JPMC is therefore focusing its marketing efforts on key customers with good payment
record and credit rating. The company has recently entered into a series of term contracts
which secure its market position and obviate the need for participation in the spot market.
JPMC recognizes that it is critical that project targets are achieved as quickly as possible
and the company is allocating all human, physical and financial resources to accelerate
operations at the Project. Anticipated market requirements over the coming 5-year period
are as follows.
Projected Demand for Jordan Rock
(million tonnes per year)
1996   1997   1998   1999   2000-05 1/
(Actual) -------------- Projected ----------------
Export              4.35    4.95   5.50    5.60    6.40 +
Internal Consumption  1.10    1.60   1.95    2.10    3.60 +
11 average production over the period
As mentioned previously, market demand is projected to exceed the tabulated figures and,
to the extent that the company can produce additional rock, exports will be increased.



- 27 -
3.          As a minor fertilizer producer by world standards, the fertilizer plant at
Aqaba has faced no difficulty in marketing its DAP products or the aluminum fluoride
by-product. In the future, as the company's fertilizer joint venture - Nippon-Jordan
Chemical Company (N-P-K plant at Aqaba) - comes on stream, this will provide
important added value to JPMC's product lines and provide greater product diversity and
increased protection in case of any future market shifts in demand for phosphate rock,
intermediate and final fertilizer products.
4.          Production. JPMC is firnly committed to the lower production cost
Shidiya phosphate area development and will maximize output of phosphate ore and
concentrates to the extent possible. Mining operations at the more traditional areas at El
Hassa and El Abiad will be curtailed progressively and maintained only to the extent that
Shidiya cannot provide full market requirements. Now that the mine development
(concluded under Loan 2902) is in full operation, JPMC is focusing all attention on
completing commissioning of the flotation section of the beneficiation plant and on
maximizing A1/A3 concentrate production. The anticipated Shidiya production from the
Projects (Loans 2902 and 3172) is set out below.
Shidiya Area - Project Production Schedule 1/
(million tonnes)
1996   1997   1998   l999andon
Al Ore (Concentrates, Washing) 31 0.160  0.800  1.000    1.100
A2 Ore (Direct Export) 2/     1.122  1.300  1.232    1.250
A3 Ore (Concentrates, Flotation) 3L   -    0.400  0.875    0.930
Production at Steady State     3.280 Mt.
1/ revision to mid- 1996 plan to reflect delay in commissioning flotation section of
beneficiation plant
2/ production from mine development under Loan 2902-JO
3/ production from beneficiation plant development under Loan 3172-JO
5.          Recognizing the low production cost of Shidiya products, JPMC is
already committing itself to a US$250 million, 4.2 mtpy Phase II Shidiya development
adjacent to that developed under the two Bank loans. Production from this second stage
development should commence in 1998 with the development of a mine box-cut and will
enable the company to take advantage of expanding markets and increase its market share
from the 14 per cent of recent years, towards a level approaching perhaps 18-20 per cent
at the turn of the century.
6.          The fertilizer complex at Aqaba, following rehabilitation under the Project
has, since late 1994, been producing very successfully at in excess of 90 per cent of the
revised nameplate capacity of 740,000 tonnes DAP per year.



- 28 -
7.          Plan for Operations. All attentions will be paid over the coming 6
months to complete commissioning of the beneficiation plant. Not only has the company
appointed a Deputy General Manager at the Shidiya site to take control of the most
important transition phase from construction/commissioning to operations, but also has
strengthened the operations staff located at the project area. The company will continue to
focus on recruitment of high-caliber staff and on ongoing training programs at Shidiya.
To provide security of operations, the company will continue to refine further its
materials management systems (already where substantial progress has been made under
Loan 2902-JO) such that maintenance costs and spares stocks (working capital
commitments) are minimized.
8.          Following successful commissioning of the beneficiation plant, now
anticipated in mid-1997, the company will place great focus on the plant's operations. A
systematic set of production monitoring and evaluation procedure will be developed
(further to those currently being used for initial quality control), including but not limited
to:
Quantity and quality of ore feed
Grade and concentrate recovery factors
Per cent solids and flow rates for slurry streams
Efficiency factors in individual plant sections
Consumptions (reagents etc.)
Quantity and quality of (ore and concentrate) products
Unit production costs, by cost center
Similar criteria will be monitored at the rehabilitated fertilizer complex and including
also, the costs of raw materials (sulfur, ammonia etc.) and the prices realized for the
various products (DAP, phosphoric acid, aluminum fluoride).
9.          From a financial management point of view and as a matter of regular
business planning, the company will up-date (minimum annually) its rolling 5-year
operations plan, including market, production and financial forecasts. Through its
Finance Department and particularly its recently established Strategic Planning Unit,
JPMC will aggressively monitor production cost components and identify the corporate
financial implications of alternative production planning strategies in order to identify
every opportunity to minimize production costs and to maximize cash flow, liquidity and
profitability.
10.         Overall Corporate Position. JPMC financial projections were most
recently up-dated in late-1996, based on mid-1996 company results. These financial
statements are attached. The financial projections highlight a progressively improving
income statement and a strengthening balance sheet. Thus the company is in a strong
position to support and sustain the project operations. Unaudited 1996 financial
statements not only substantiate these projections, but also suggest that the financial
prospects of the company may indeed be stronger than forecast in mid-1996. Recent



- 29 -
(1997) price increases realized for phosphate, and recent production and general
efficiency improvements at the Shidiya mine (beyond those conservatively estimated in
the mid-1996 plan), should add even further to the company's financial strength and
prospects, as well as to the viability and sustainability of the project.
February 1997



-30 -
ANNEX 2
JORDAN PHOSPHATE MINES COMPANY
INTEGRATED PHOSPHATE PROJECT
(LOAN 317240)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
A.    INTRODUCTION
The Integrated Phosphate Project includes two components, the Eshidiya
beneficiation plant (washer and flotation) and the Aqaba JPMC Fertilizer Complex revamp.
The Eshidiya beneficiation plant provides processing facilities to upgrade Eshidiya ore Beds
Al and A3 (developed under Loan 2902-JO) to a salable product quality. The Eshidiya
mine and dry upgrading of Bed A2 was completed under Loan 2902-JO (Early Production
Scheme).
The Fertilizer Complex revamp debottlenecks this plant so it can attain or exceed
the original design capacity. It had been constrained to 73.5% of design capacity as a result
of original design deficiencies prior to JPMC ownership.
B.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1 .    Beneficiation Plant Component:
a)    To produce 0.82 mtpy of washed concentrate from Bed Al and 0.66 of flotation
concentrate from Bed A3, a total of 1.48 mtpy. (During initial project implementation, these
capacity objectives were increased to 1.09 mtpy Al and 0.91 mtpy A3, see Section C, sub-
paras. 2 (a), (b) and (d).
b)    To compensate for the progressive depletion of JPMC's central Jordan El Hassa and
El Abiad ore deposits.
c)    To reduce JPMC phosphate rock production costs by expanding the lower cost,
large scale Eshidiya mine with a lesser product transport distance to Aqaba than the central
Jordan mines.



- 31 -
d)    To commercially establish the first phosphate flotation production facility in Jordan
which has long term major implications for this industry's continued success producing high
quality concentrates which command a premium price.
e)    To establish reliable process technology for Eshidiya Phase I of world class status
for the ensuing Eshidiya Phases II and III which are now entering the financing and
exploration phases respectively.
f)    To continue to maintain JPMC's world phosphate rock market share with a prime
quality product with the benefit of hard currency generation for Jordan.
2.    Fertilizer Component:
a)    To attain or exceed DAP production levels of 740,000 tpy plus 59,000 tpy of
phosphoric acid. The quantity of either can vary depending upon the prevailing market
demand.
b)    Debottleneck to attain or exceed a capacity utilization factor of 90% to 95% instead
of 73.5%.
C.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
I1.    General Project:
a)    The Gulf crisis seriously disabled the project from August 1990 to August 1991.
The aftermath resulted in the unavailability of Kuwait Funds financing, requiring six
months to arrange for replacement loans.
b)    After beneficiation plant bidding documents were prepared, JPMC was advised by
project financiers that a two phased bidding process (technical and financial) and pre-
qualification of turnkey contractors would be preferable. Rewriting bid documents and the
additional time for two phased bidding resulted in delay. Procurement delays were also
encountered with the Fertilizer Complex component in adjusting documents to Bank
guidelines.
2.    Beneficiation Plant Component:
a)    Commissioning of the Al washing plant during 1996 has been successful and full
production capability of 1.09 mtpy is now scheduled.



- 32-
b)    Commissioning of A3 (flotation) underway since mid-1996 is expected to be
complete by mid 1997. By end 1997, the flotation plant is expected to reach full production
capacity of 0.91 mtpy.
c)    The key factor impacting flotation of A3 reaching the required performance is the
generation of fine phosphate and clay particles circulating and building up within recycle
water. Several corrective alternatives are under consideration with a corrective action
decision eminent.
d)    During the initial phase of implementation of the beneficiation plant, JPMC
took a wise decision and designed a 40 per cent increase of the plant's capacity.
This decision was made to (i) facilitate processing Al and A3 ore stocks and (ii) to
provide additional A1/A3 capacity to cater for reduced A2 production (realized as a
result of A2 thickness and density characteristics that were less than original
prospect data had indicated).
3.    Fertilizer Component:
Production for the Fertilizer component has been successfully reached, continuing to
operate at in excess of 90 per cent of full revamp design capacity (740,000 tonnes DAP per
year) over the past two years.
4.    Sector Policy Improvements:
a)    JPMC success as a fertilizer producer has brought it into a position to successfully
attract foreign joint venture participation. Additional significant joint venture fertilizer
production facilities now being developed will provide captive phosphate rock consumption
and the resultant value added benefits. The rock consumption of these facilities will be
supplemented by sub-commercial fines and low grade rock, thus helping to export the
higher grade products.
b)    The expansion and diversification of the sector into both rock and fertilizer
solidifies JPMC's market position to not be wholly committed to rock as it was in previous
years. Although the rock export market has, in 1996, become very strong and appears to be
in a position to continue as such, diversification provides the sector with added strength to
adjust for variations in the world market.
c)    Work at the JPMC Rusaifa Research Center has provided the basis which has led to
the use of low quality fines in combination with normal phosphate rock feed to the JPMC
Aqaba Fertilizer Complex.



-33 -
d)   Improved planning on the production, financial, and corporate strategy fronts has
progressed to the point where benefits can be recognized. It is now more readily apparent
as to what additional steps can be taken to further optimize corporate planning.
e)    Technical assistance under the loan provided training and a basis from which
computerization could be and is now being implemented to enhance corporate planning.
5.   Institutional Developments:
a)    Provision for a strategic planning committee was established to develop, coordinate
and act upon corporate strategy to attain five year plan objectives.
b)    JPMC corporate structure has been enhanced with assignment of well experienced
and qualified Deputy General Managers fully responsible for their respective corporate
entities.
c)    JPMC has hired local consultants who are now making recommendations to JPMC
management as to procedures necessary to be implemented at Amman HQ, Eshidiya and
Aqaba to accomplish ISO 9000 certification.
6.    Ecology Aspects:
a)    Eshidiya and the Fertilizer Complex facilities have incorporated dust and other
potentially detrimental ecological discharge containment and collection procedures
consistent with state-of-the-art technology. Additionally JPMC continues research and
development into collection and use of previously discarded P205 containing residues to
allow them to be recovered and complement JPMC profitability.
b)    As previously discussed, of significance has been utilization of some low grade dust
products by the Fertilizer Complex which previously were a serious problem for both JPMC
during ship loading and also likewise for JPMC customers.
D.   FINANCIAL BENEFITS
The financial rate of return is somewhat lower than anticipated due to increased
tumrkey contract costs, increased Aqaba port charges, and continued imposition of
production tax. Although the ERR/FRR calculations undertaken using the company's last
(mid-1996) plan indicate acceptable benefits, it should be noted that JPMC has realized,



- 34 -
since end-1996, improved production, marketing and financial (phosphate and fertilizer
prices) performance that will add to the financial benefits to be accrued. An up-dated plan is
being prepared by JPMC which will highlight these additional benefits that should later
reflect positively on the re-calculated ERR/FRR.
E.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
I1.    Factors Generally Not Subject to JPMC's Control:
a)    The Gulf crises and its aftermath.
b)    Replacement financing required as a result of Kuwait funding non availability.
c)    Pioneering commercial scale phosphate flotation technology in Jordan and on an ore
reserve never before attempted on a commercial scale.
d)    Delay in implementation due to two stage bidding process as recommended by
project financiers.
2.    Factors Generally Subject to JPMC's Control:
a)    Over optimistic estimating for the quick attainment of flotation success although
perhaps rightfully justified in light of exhaustive and successful large scale pilot plant
testing of A3 ore.
b)    Difficulty in locating ideal commercial scale on-the-job training for flotation
operations personnel.
F.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
a)    JPMC has operated washing plants nearly identical to the Eshidiya Al ore washer
for more than 20 years and is capable of operating this plant with good performance for the
life of the Eshidiya mine.
b)    This is the first phosphate flotation plant for Jordan and should be expected to
experience some initial difficulty. Flotation plants generally require a trial and error period
to fully understand flotation response for varying ore character. JPMC understands this
situation and at this point in time is showing good progress. JPMC does have a good plan
of action now in place with success and sustainability likely.



- 35 -
c)    To attain sustainability the flotation plant contractor continues at the site and expert
phosphate flotation consultants have assisted and will continue to assist as necessary.
d)    The fertilizer revamp has been in operation two years, with no major difficulties.
Sustainability is secured as this is a more predictable process than the mine beneficiation
plant where ore character and other parameters are not precisely predictable.
G.    JPMC PERFORMANCE
a)    Beginning with fundamental exploration, project conceptualization, project pre-
feasibility and feasibility studies, JPMC has been very diligent in carrying out their work to
arrive at a successful conclusion.
b)    The project team and JPMC operating personnel have put forth a serious effort to
correct the A3 flotation problem, with positive results.
c)    The project team and its management have been very diligent in following the
details and expediting the work for the successful development of the beneficiation plant
and the fertilizer plant revamp.
H.    BANK PERFORMANCE
a)    Generally satisfactory but without an adequate appreciation at project appraisal for
two-stage bidding regarding tumkey contracting.
b)    Always focused upon the need to accelerate the development of the lower cost
Eshidiya mine and processing operations to replace the existing El Hassa and El Abiad
operations.
c)    Focused intently upon the need to improve corporate planning and financial
management.
d)    In retrospect, the prediction of world phosphate demand varied significantly from
SAR expectations.



- 36 -
ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OUTCOME
a)    Although delays have been encountered, the outcome is satisfactory for the Eshidiya
beneficiation and Aqaba Fertilizer complex, with beneficiation expected at full production
starting mid-1997 and the Fertilizer Complex revamp complete in 1994.
b)    JPMC as a company has concentrated its efforts intently upon expediting the project
to completion through difficult circumstances outside of JPMC control.
c)    With the project's success assured, JPMC is now in a position to take advantage of a
rebounding phosphate rock and fertilizer market.
J.    FUTURE OPERATIONS
a)    JPMC continues its focus upon completing development of Eshidiya and the
downstream company and joint venture components to ensure longevity with strong
benefits for the sector in Jordan.
b)    JPMC has plans formulated to continue to improve production performance
reporting which is then incorporated into a rolling five year plan to better ensure a more
optimum corporate strategy.
c)    Computerization to shorten the time lag in reporting and to also greatly enhance the
magnitude of reporting and control which can be accommodated is in progress.
d)    With the success of this project nearly attained and attainable, JPMC has completed
the feasibility study to double Eshidiya's capacity (Eshidiya Phase II), has scheduled
relocation of equipment from the El Hassa and El Abiad mines to open the Eshidiya Phase
II mine box cut in mid 1997, and has begun exploration efforts to support the Eshidiya
Phase III expansion to bring the total Eshidiya rock production capability up to 10 mtpy by
2000-2004, in line with latest JPMC market demand estimates.
K.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED
a)    Flexibility in production of rock grades and fertilizer types is important to maximize
market advantage and benefit.
b)    JPMC has learned that even with extensive and very careful testing and evaluation
in the exploration and pre-development phase, anomalies in ore character can affect
expected commercialization timing.






IMAGING
Report No.:         16699
Type:      ICR



