Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4582
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 467-BU)
June 27, 1983
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Transportation Division I
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I          I                                                                                                                                                     



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURUNDI
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 467-BU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface.    .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .   .
Key Project Data ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  ii
Highlights ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  iv
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.   INTRODUCTION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 1
II.   PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL . . . . . . . . . . . .                  2
III.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  4
IV.   INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT ...  .          .  .  .  .    . .....  .    .   12
V.   FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTION OF GOVERNMENT. . . . . . . . . . .                 13
VI. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION.                                                      14
VII.   THE ROLE OF IDA. ...                           . .. .        .  .  .   .  15
VIII.    CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNT. . . . . . . . . . . . . .                16
Tables
1.   Project Cost Estimates and Financing. . . . . . . . . . .                18
2.   Maintenance Equipment ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  19
3.   Schedule of Disbursements ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  20
4.   Vehicle Operating Cost Estimates. . . . . . . . . . . . .                22
MAP
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I                         I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A



PREFACE
The First Highway Project for Burundi (Credit 467-BU) for an
amount of US>') million was approved by the Board in March 1974. The credit
was signed on March 27, 1974, and became effective on August 22, 1974, two
months later than expected. The physical component of the project was
virtually completed in August 1978, except for the construction of an
office building which was not included in the original project.
Construction of that building necessitated two, one-year extensions of the
Closing Date before it was completed by a contractor (para. 3.02).
The major components of the project consisted of (a) a four-year
road maintenance program; (b) consultants' services for technical
assistance to the Departement des Ponts et Chaussees (DPC) and training of
its personnel; and (c) refinancing of an earlier credit for preparatory
studies (Credit S11-BU).
Since the Credit Agreement dates from early 1974, it did not
include a covenant requiring the Government to submit a PCR. This PCR
was prepared by the Eastern Africa Projects Department Highways Division
(since July 1982 Transportation Division I) in September 1981.
Preparation of this PCR was a desk job, based on supervision
mission reports, appraisal reports of the First, Second and Third Highway
Projects, progress reports and Bank files. No special mission was arranged
or considered necessary for its preparation.
In accordance with the revised project performance audit reporting
procedures (1982), this PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED) but the project was not audited by OED staff. The PCR was sent to the
Borrower for comments; however, none were received.



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I                             I



- ii -
KEY PROJECT DATA
Item                         Appraisal Estimate        Actual
Total Project Cost (US$million)             8.4                 8.8
Overrun (%)                                  -                  5   a/
Credit Amount (US$million)                  5                   5
Disbursed                                                       5
Repaid                                       -                  -
Closing Date                              12/31/78          12/31/80
Date Physical Components completed          09/78             09/80
Proportion completed by above date          85                  100
Proportion time overrun (%)                  -                  50
Economic Rate of Return (%)                 13                 )13  b/
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Item                            Original Plan          Actual
First Mentioned in File                   03/06/70              -
Negotiations                                04/72              02/74
Board Approval                              04/72              02/74
Credit Agreement Date                                       03/27/74
Effectiveness Date                        06/27/74          08/22/74
Closing Date                              12/31/78              -
First Revision Closing Date                   -             12/31/79
Second Revision Closing Date                  -             12/31/80
Borrower                                  Republic of Burundi
Executing Agency                          Direction des Ponts et
Chauss6es, DPC
Fiscal Year Borrower                      January 1 - December 31
Follow-on Project                         Second Highway Project
03/78
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY74  FY75  FY76  FY77  FY78  FY79  FY80  FY81
(i)  Estimated       0.4   1.4   3.2   4.5   4.9   5.0    -       -
(ii) Actual           -    0.3   0.7   1.5   3.3   4.0   4.9  5.07
% of (ii) to (i)      -     21    22    33    67    80    -       -
a/ Figure is somewhat misleading because project implemented deviated from
that appraised in that part of the materials, fuel, technical assistance
and training was financed under subsequent projects.
b/ It was not feasible to calculate a re-evaluated rate of return for the
Project as there is no clear-cut separation of costs and benefits among
this and the two subsequent projects (para. 6.ul); however, indications
are that the rate of return is higher than the appraised 13% (para. 6.05).



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  



-iii -
MISSION DATA
Month/  No. of  No. of   Man-        Date of
Item         Year   Weeks   Persons  Weeks/C   Report
Identificstion      03/701/   -         -        -          -
Preparation )
Pre-appraisal)      10/71     3         3         9       04/71
Appraisal           07/73     -         2        --    01/25/74
Supervision I       08/74     1         1        1          -
Supervision II      12/74     1         1        1      01/14/75
Supervision III    11/75      1         2        2      11/18/75
Supervision IV      01/76     1         2        2      04/08/76
Supervision V       06/76     1         1         1     07/14/76
Supervision VI      02/77    1.5        2        3      04/06/77
Supervision VII    08/77      1         1        1      09/28/77
Supervision VIII   02/78      1         1        1      04/28/78
Supervision IX      09/78    1.5        1       1.5    10/27/782/
Supervision X       02/79     1         1        1      04/06/797/
Supervision XI      10/79    1.5        2        3      12/20/79S/
Supervision XII    02/80    1.5         1        3      05/09/80S/
Supervision XIII   07/80      1         1        1          4/
Supervision XIV    10/80      1         1        1
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATE
Name of Currency                        Burundi Franc (FBu)
Appraisal Date July 1973                US$1.00: FBu 78.50
until March 1976                        US$1.00: FBu 78.50
after March 1976                        US$1.00: FBu 90.
l/  In the context of the preparation of engineering Credit
S11-BU dated 6/19/70.
2/  After this date combined with supervision Credit 773-BU.
3/  After this date combined with supervision Credit 773-BIT and
preparation Third Highway Project.
4/  Incorporated in Appraisal Report Third Highway Project.



I                           I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I 
I 



- iv -
HIGHLIGHTS
The First Highway Project was intended as a first phase of an
eight-to-ten year program to establish a highway maintenance organization
capable of adequately maintaining Burundi's highway network (2.02, 4.01).
Nationals with sufficient education to take full advantage of the
training and technical assistance provided to the D6partement des Ponts et
Chauss6es (DPC) are scarce in Burundi. As a result, appointments of
suitable counterparts to the staff of expatriate consultants was a
continuous problem during the implementation of the project (para. 3.09).
This made the task of the consultants difficult and often frustrating but
they performed quite satisfactorily (paras. 3.23-3.25). Since DPC
recognizes that the shortage of domestic staff will continue for some time,
it readily accepts technical assistance. As a result, additional technical
assistance was incorporated under the Second and Third Highway Projects and
subsequent progress in staffing and training has been reported (paras.
4.01, 4.02). This implies that institution building, which was a major
goal of the First Highway Project, is being followed up.
Another problem during implementation was the shortage of local
funds due to inadequate budgeting (para. 3.10). This led IDA to agree to
use funds under the Credit, initially intended for betterment works, for
the purchase of materials and fuel to be used in maintenance works (para.
3.10). The shortage of local funds was corrected in the follow up projects
when related covenants in the credit agreements for the Second and Third
Highway Projects were made more specific and stringent (para. 3.11).
An unforeseen problem arose when the Dar es Salaam refinery was
down for repairs and when war conditions in Uganda closed Burundi's major
external supply route via Mombasa, causing frequent shortages of fuel and
materials, particularly cement (para. 3.08).
Whereas the introduction of labor intensive maintenance
procedures was quite successful, the introduction of mechanized maintenance
brigades was less successful because of delays in deliveries of equipment
(paras. 3.03, 3.07) and in training of operators (para. 3.15). Further, a
two-year delay resulted from IDA's initial resistance, later withdrawn, to
agree placing an order for trucks with the second lowest bidder which was
preferred by DPC (para. 3.16).



v -
The Government failed to comply with the Credit Agreement by
pressing DPC into using its organization to repair and maintain city
streets in Bujumbura. To correct this, a covenant in Credit 773-BU for the
Second Highway Project requires setting up a separate department for
Bujumbura with its own budget, staff and equipment (para. 3.12).
The studies financed under the project formed the basis not only
for the Second and Third Highway Projects but also for funding of works by
the Kuwait Fund and the African Development Fund.
The 5% cost overrun for the project was small but this is
somewhat misleading because the project as implemented deviated from that
appraised, in that part of the materials, fuel, technical assistance and
training was financed under the Second and Third Highway Projects (para.
3.22). As there is no clear-cut separation for costs and benefits among
the three projects, an economic re-evaluation of the First Highway Project
was not feasible (para. 6.01).
In summary, although implementation of the First Highway Project
met with a number of problems, some of which may have been foreseen (e.g.,
shortage of local funds and national counterparts), it constituted a
positive first step to strengthen the DPC. DPC made serious efforts to
perform well and most problems were outside its control, some even outside
the control of the Government. The fact that performance is improving
under two follow-on projects may lead to the conclusion that by and large
the teething problems of the initial project have been corrected and that
the project was successful.



- 1 -
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01      The first Bank Group lending operation in Burundi was made in 1957
(Loan 165-BE, US84.8 million), to the Belgian Trust Territory of Ruanda-TTrundi
for improving to paved standards the BRujumbura-Muramvya road; the project was
completed in 1959.  The second was in 1970 (Credit Sl1-BTJ, TTS8380,000) to assist
in financing detailed engineering of the Bujumbura-Nyanza Lac road plus a study
for the improvement of road maintenance. This latter credit amount was later
included for refinancing under the First Highway Project (Credit 467-BTT, TTSS5
million, March 1974) which is the subject of this Project Completion Report. 1/
1.02      Burundi's topography is rugged, and the cost of road transport,
including that of road construction and maintenance, is high. Since road
conditions are poor, the Bank Group's lending activities have consistently
focussed on reducing road transport costs through improvements of the country's
3,000 km classified roads and the maintenance thereof. The total system is
about 5,500 km of which the 3,000 km classified network is administered by the
central Government and the remaining 2,500 km by local administrations and the
users. The maximum east-west distance within the country is about 150 km and
north-south about 225 km. In view of the above and the absence of navigable
rivers, road transport is the only internal economic transport mode, and
minimizing its cost is vital for the country's economy.
1.03     Volumes of external transport are low and unbalanced, the more so since
the main export is coffee and thus highly seasonal. In the 1976-1978 period,
foreign trade amounted to about 110,000 tons of imports and 27,000 tons of
exports per annum. External transport routes are either the most frequently
used southern lake/rail route via Kigoma to Dar es Salaam in Tanzania (1,428 km)
or the northern route via Rwanda through Kampala in Uganda to Mombasa in Kenya
(1,740 km by road or 1,925 km by road/rail). Because of the small volume of
traffic it generates, Burundi has virtually no leverage over neighboring
countries to improve transport conditions.
1.04      During the implementation period of this First Highway Project,
another credit was granted to Burundi (Credit 773-BIJ, USS14 million, February
1978) for the Second Highway Project. In April 1981 the Board approved a Third
Highway Project. Whereas the First Highway Project focussed exclusively on
improvements of maintenance operations and studies, the Second and Third Highway
Projects include also road construction and improvement works in addition to
continuing the maintenance activities begun under the First Highway Project.
1/ The original title of this project was "Highway Maintenance Project" but
since subsequent road projects which include also a maintenance component,
are called Second and Third Highway Project, the title "Highway Maintenance
Project" was later unofficially changed to First Highway Project.



- 2 -
II. PROJECT PRRPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Preparation
2.01      The preparation of the First Highway Project took a long time and met
with many difficulties. In 1967-69 the United Nations Development Program
(UNDP) financed a feasibility study for improvement of the road from the
country's capital, Bujumbura, to Kigoma in Tanzania, a railhead of the then East
African Railways by which a large share of Burundi's export-import traffic is
transported to and from the Tanzanian port of Dar es Salaam. The Rank was the
executing agency for this study which was carried out by a German/French joint
venture of consulting firms. It demonstrated that the volume of international
Burundi traffic was insufficient to warrant an improved road link in competition
with the established lake transport route between Bujumbura and Kigoma. The
study did indicate, however, that improvement of Bujumbura-Nyanza Lac (121 km)
would be economically justified.
Identification
2.02      In view of that conclusion, the Association followed up the study with
Credit Sll-BU ITS$380,000, 1970) to help finance the detailed engineering of the
above road. The credit also provided for a study on how to improve the
maintenance of Burundi's highway network, the priority of which was established
during IDA's appraisal of Credit Sll-BU. The maintenance study was carried out
by the German partner of the above joint venture.
Preappraisal
2.03      On the basis of the findings in October 1971 of the above studies, an
IDA mission appraised a project consisting of: (a) construction to bituminous
paved standards of the Bujumbura-Mutambara road section; (b) improvement to
gravel standards of the Mutambara-Nyanza Lac road section; and (c) a four-year
highway maintenance program as a first phase of a longer-term (eight to ten
years) maintenance program. A US$8.9 million Credit was negotiated in April
1972 for the above project. However, in May 1972 political disturbances eruDted
and Board presentation was deferred.
2.04      In late 1972 the Government proposed changing the specifications of
the contract for the Bujumbura-Nyanza Lac road to render the work more labor
intensive so as to expedite resettlement of the population in the
Bujumbura-Nyanza Lac region, depopulated during the above disturbances.
Consultants who were retained to study the feasibility of this concluded in an
April 1973 report that labor, if available, could be substituted for equipment
for some operations. However, they also concluded that execution of the works
to the original specifications was no longer justified because traffic was about
half the 1971 level as a result of the depopulation of the region.
2.05      A subsequent FAO study carried out in April 1973 concluded further
that it would take about five years for production in the abandoned region to
return to the 1971 level. IDA therefore proposed to the Government to finance
only limited improvement of the Bujumbura-Nyanza Lac road and to defer paving of
the Bujumbura-Mutambara road section until justified by increased traffic
volumes. However, the Government later decided to seek other financing for the
full reconstruction of the above road and to limit IDA financing to a highway
maintenance project plus preinvestment studies.



-3-
Appraisal
2.06      Accordingly, a more modest project was conceived and appraised in July
1973.  The total cost of the project was estimated at UTS$8.4 million of which
about US$7.2 million was the foreign currency component (Table 1). The project
costs were to be shared by the Association, ITJNT)P, the Federal Republic of
Germany, Belgium and Burundi (for the amounts see para. 2.11). Negotiations
were held in February 1974 and a US$5 million Credit was signed in March 1974.
Of the US$5 million IDA credit, UTS$4.82 million, or 96%, was to be for foreign
costs and the remaining US$180,000 would be local; the Credit included the
refinancing of Credit Sll-BU for preparatory studies (para. 1.01).
2.07      Thus, the highway maintenance project for which Credit 467-BIJ was made
in March 1974, was part of an initially larger project, identified some five
years earlier as a result of a 1967-1969 TIJNDP study, and of subsequent
feasibility and detailed engineering studies undertaken in 1970 and updated in
1973.
The Project
2.08      The project consisted of the following:
(a) a four-year highway maintenance program, including
(i)  technical assistance to the Department of Roads and Bridges
(Departement des Ponts et Chaussees, DPC) including the training
of DPC personnel at all levels;
(ii) procurement of maintenance, workshop and training equipment,
spare parts, fuel and materials; and
(iii) the construction of a mechanical workshop and storeroom at
Bujumbura and a small maintenance depot at Gitega;
(b) consultants' services for:
(i)  the preparation of a master plan for road development;
(ii) feasibility study and detailed engineering of the
Ngozi-Muyinga-Kobero road (106 km) and of other roads to be
identified under (i) above; and
(iii)  updating the consultants' report financed by Credit Sll-BTU for
preparing the project:
(c) refinancing Credit Sll-BU.
2.09      The DPC within the Ministry of Public Works was responsible for
execution of the project, assisted by the experts financed by UNDP, German and
Belgian financial aid and the Credit.



-4-
Estimated Cost of the Project
2.10      The estimated cost of the project and IDA's contribution is shown in
Table 1 and summarized below:
IDA
Local  Foreign  Total    Foreign  Contribution
---- S-- IT St 000…--___._
(a) Highway Maintenance
Program, including
technical assistance      966    5,500  6,474         85        3,200
(b)  Studies                   112       890  1,002        89          890
(c)  Contingencies             117       807    924        87          810
1,195    7,205  8,400        $36       5,000
2.11      The cost sharing referred to in para 2.06 was to be as follows:
% of
Local   Foreign   Total    Total
-------IJS$ million-----
IDA                              0.18     4.82      5.00      60
Federal Republic of Germany    0.00       1.33      1.33       16
UNDP                             0.00     1.05      1.05      12
Belgium                          0.40     0.00      0.40       5
Burundi                          0.62     0.00      0.62       7
1.20     7.20      8.40     100
In addition to the above the Government undertook to allocate in its current
budgets the funds needed for the road maintenance operations.
Disbursements
2.12      The Credit became effective two months later than expected, on August
22, allowing immediate disbursement of US$302,000 for the refinancing of funds
actually disbursed under Credit Sll-BTJ. Disbursements for the four-year program
were scheduled to be completed by September 1978 and the initial Closing Date
was set at December 31, 1978 (Table 3).
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST
General
3.01      The project was completed in September 1980, 27 months later than
originally scheduled, and the Closing Date was extended twice, first to December
31, 1979 and again to December 31, 1980. The Credit was fully d[sbursed by the
end of 1980.
3.02      The project item that caused 27-month delay  was the construction of
an office building which was not included in the original project (para. 3.18).
Other project components were either completed within the scheduled four years,
or their continuation was incorporated into the Second Highway Project when
funds of the First Highway Project were exhausted. Other causes for delays in
the course of implementing the project were:



- 5-
(a) delay in procurement of equipment;
(b) shortages of fuel and materials, particularly cement: and
(c) lack of suitable counterparts for the expatriate experts, and frequent
changes of those employed, resulting in loss of continuity and waste
of training efforts.
3.03      As to achieving the goal of the project, it was successful in
improving manual road maintenance but less so in introducing mechanized brigades
for betterments and periodic maintenance because of the delay in delivery of
equipment and training of local staff.  This Dart of the project was later
continued by incorporating it into the Second and Third Highway Projects.
Another factor which adversely affected the success of the project was the use
of scarce physical, human and financial resources on the streets of Bujumbura,
rather than on the inter-urban network which was the primary purpose of the
project.
Road Maintenance Program
3.04      This part of the project may be divided into four categories:
(a) technical assistance to DPC and training of its staff;
(b)  road maintenance equipment and spare parts;
(c) materials and fuel; and
(d) construction of workshops and depots.
Technical Assistance
3.05      The technical assistance and training category consisted of the
following:
(a) four mechanical experts provided under a German technical assistance
arrangement already in force since 1968 and renewed in 1972.
(b) six road maintenance experts, financed by TJNDP, provided as of October
1974 by a consulting firm under contract with the Association as the
executing agency for TJNDP; and
(c) three training experts for the School of Public Works in Bujumbura and
the DPC training center of Gitega provided by consultants under
contract since October 1978 and financed by the IDA Credit and the
Project Preparation Facility for the Third Highway Project.
3.06      The German experts, who operated the central workshop in Bujumbura,
maintained existing equipment and checked and accepted on behalf of the
Government the IDA-financed new equipment when it arrived.



-6-
3.07      The six experts to assist in the maintenance operations were:  one
engineer-head of mission, advisor to the Director of the Department of Roads and
Bridges; one accountant; one head of stores; two work supervisors and one
mechanical inspector. The function of mechanical inspector was later eliminated
when it appeared to overlap and interfere with the German technical assistance
team. That vacancy was filled in 1977 by an expert in maintenai.ce and repair
of structures. The team concentrated in the first instance on reorganization
and strengthening the cantonnage system for manual road maintenance operations
focussing first on improving the worst sections of the most important 1,400 km
of the 3,000 km classified network. These manual maintenance activities were
quite successful in that they contributed to bringing about considerable
improvement of road conditions.
3.08      Technical assistance was, however, adversely affected by the following
problems:
(a) lack of suitable counterparts and lack of continuity since several of
those who were trained either left the Government, e.g. to continue
their studies abroad, or were transfered to other Government agencies;
(b) continuous shortage of local funds to cover payroll and nurchase of
fuel, parts and materials, since the Government did not (and possibly
could not) live-up to the standard credit covenant that it would
"provide, promptly as needed, the funds..., etc";
(c)  lack of fuel, first during the global shortage in 1975, and again in
1977 when the refinery in Dar es Salaam was down for repairs and the
country's alternative supply route from Mombasa via Kampala was cut
off because of the Tanzania-Uganda war;
(d)  lack of and slow deliveries of imported materials (cement) and parts;
(e) pressures to get involved in other than project-related activities;
(f) pressure to improve city streets in Bujumbura, rather than inter-urban
roads; and
(g) discipline problems with drivers, operators and foremen who did
not like to work out in the field, away from home and families, under
poor living conditions with respect to lodging and food supply.
In addition, it was intended that mechanized brigades be used to assist manual
operations by levelling and regravelling road surfaces and improving drainage.
This part of the maintenance operations was seriously delayed by problems in
procuring 25 tipping trucks, 2 tank trucks and a mobile workshop (paras
3.15-3.16).
Counterparts Problem
3.09      This problem is a normal one to be expected in any developing country
that became independent only recently and faces a serious shortage of an
educated middle class. However, what was not normal was that salaries were
higher not only in private business but also in other Government agencies than
those in DPC. The Government later introduced a bonding system for staff



-7-
trained through Government financing, but only when the shortage of educated
local staff gradually eased as a result of the training program under the
project, and under the Second Highway Project, did the availability of
counterparts become more stable.
The Local Funds Problem
3.10      Unfortunately, at the time of Credit negotiations no specific amounts
for annual recurrent budget allocations were agreed upon. The problem was
partly solved through:
(a) contributions from Belgian aid;
(b) transfers from the National Road Fund which, although in principle to
be used for investments only, was amended in 1973 to permit its use
for recurrent expenditure if and when needled;
(c) using IDA funds for day-to-day purchases of fuels, spares and
materials for routine maintenance, rather than as was intended, for
betterment works to be carried out by mechanised brigades.
3.11      Notwithstanding the routine covenant in Loan/Credit agreements that
the Government will provide promptly the funds needed for the nroject, shortage
of local funds for recurrent expenditures has been the rule rather than the
exception for Bank Group-financed road maintenance projects. In the case of
Burundi in 1974, only 1.3% of the national recurrent budget or TTS8O.65 million
equivalent, was earmarked for road maintenance; in 1975 the amount was even
lower, US$0.6 million equivalent. The Ministers of Public Works and Finance
were informed that compared with other countries, this was a very low
percentage. A covenant in Credit 773-BU for the Second Highway Project requires
the Government to allocate at least $2.5 million equivalent annually for road
maintenance, to be adjusted annually after consultations with the Association.
Government's performance in this regard has so far been satisfactory. During
negotiations for the Third Highway Project, an amount of US$3 million was agreed
upon with the possibility of adjustment.
Other maintenance Program Problems
3.12      The use of the experts for other than project-related work was
discontinued after the Association pointed out to the Minister that such
practices reduced the effectiveness of the experts. Tising the maintenance
program resources for urban street improvements rather than for inter-urban
roads was gradually discontinued as a result of a covenant in Credit 773-WTT made
in 1978 for the Second Highway Project which required that street maintenance in
Bujumbura be made the responsihility of a separate township department with its
own budget, staff and equipment.
3.13      Whereas maximizing labor intensive methods for road construction and
maintenance in developing countries looks logical from the point of view of
savings in foreign currencies, it also creates problems. From a technical point
of view the quality of the works is usually lower since manual construction
methods cannot attain the same compaction of base and subbase materials as heavy
equipment moving over the roadbed during construction. From an execution and
managerial standpoint, there are the problems of transporting large numbers of



-8-
workers to and from constantly moving work sites and lodging and feeding them.
These were not encountered in Burundi except in a region, depopulated as a
result of the May 1972 upheavals, which Government wished to repopulate through
maximizing labor-intensive maintenance methods arid, where discipline problems
through excessivr absence were experienced. Only after introduction of
bonusses, improved lodging and special food arrangements, was the discipline
problem gradually reduced.
Training
3.14      This part of the project may be divided into two parts:  (a)
on-the-job training provided through technical assistance; and (b) theoretical
training within the Ministry of Public Works. After a study of training needs
(para. 3.20), it was decided that three experts would be needed for training
mid-level and technical local supervisors, foremen, and equipment operators.
The courses for mid-level technicians were to be given at the School of Public
Works in Bujumbura and the others in the DPC training center in Gitega.
However, the signing of the training contract was seriously delayed and the
experts did not arrive until October/November 1973, just before the initial
Closing Date of the project. It was therefore decided to continue the training
program under the Second and Third Highway Projects.
Procurement of Equipment
3.15      Table 2 shows the list of equipment intended to be procured at the
time of appraisal and the reduced equipment list eventually procured under the
IDA credit. The reason for the reduction was threefold: (a) price increases
after the mid-1973 appraisal; (b) some equipment was in the meantime purchased
in the UK with local financing; and (c) it became clear that not all equipment
could be efficiently used because of delays in training supervisors, foremen,
mechanics and operators.
3.16      Whereas procurement of the major part of equipment did not pose any
particular problems, completion of this component was delayed two years as a
result of an issue which arose in connection with the bidding procedure for 25
tipper trucks and three utility trucks (two tank trucks and one mobile workshop
truck). The original low bid submitted on March 23, 1975 was from Metalusa, the
local representative of Leyland (IJK), with a price about 23% below that of EMC,
the local representative of Mercedes Benz. After taking account of various
evaluation factors, however, the difference was reduced to 16%. Recause Leyland
did not have an established after-sale service in Burundi and EMC which offered
Mercedes Benz did, the Government was very much in favor of awarding the
contract to the Mercedes dealer. But because of the large price difference, IDA
objected. When another reevaluation of the bids still showed Leyland to have an
advantage of some 7%, the Government decided and the Association agreed to ask
for new bids on the basis of changed bidding documents whereby separate offers
were to be submitted for the imported chassis and for the bodies which could be
manufactured domestically. In addition, the number was increased to 43 trucks.
When bids were opened on February 18, 1977, the Leyland offer was again lower,
and the firm guaranteed after-sale service. Since some 250 Mercedes Benz trucks
were already operating in Burundi, including 10 for the Ministry of Works, and
no Leyland trucks, the Government again asked IDA to approve placing the order
with EMC for Mercedes Benz trucks. After another review of the many evaluation
factors and on the basis of internal memoranda, IDA staff concluded that the



-9-
price difference was still 2% in favor of Leyland.  However, in view of the
Government's strong preference for Mercedes and the non-quantified advantages of
standardization and after-sale service, IDA finally decided in mid-1977 to
withdraw its objection to the award of contract for Mercedes Benz equipment.  In
the meantime, some twenty-eight months had elapsed since the first bids were
opened in February 1975, resulting in some two years' delay in the delivery of
the trucks which finally took place between May and October 1978. Ironically,
shortly after the equipment arrived, it could not be used because of a fuel
shortage resulting from the refinery in Dar es Salaam being down for repairs.
Materials and Fuel
3.17      While in principle day-to-day expenditures for fuel, supplies and
materials for routine road maintenance are a recurrent cost to be paid from the
country's recurrent budget, in this case an amount of JJS$862,000 (TUS$690,nOO
foreign) was included in the project cost to take account of the fact that part
of heavy maintenance to be carried out by mechanized brigades was in fact
betterment. Because of local currency shortages in the early years, the IDA
funds earmarked for this project component had been spent at the time the
equipment finally arrived but were included in the Second Highway Project (para
3.10 [c]).
Construction of Workshop Annex, Maintenance Depot and Office Building
3.18      Because of the time that elapsed between reappraisal of the project in
mid-1973 and the signing of the Credit in March 1974, the construction of the
workshop annex and depot in Bujumbura was virtually completed under German
technical assistance. Therefore, the Association agreed to the Government's
request to use US$120,000 of the US$150,000 allocated for this component for the
foreign cost of the renovation and extension of the DPC building in Bujumbura,
and the remaining US$30,000 for improvements to an old school for the training
center in Gitega. The Government proposed to carry out the construction by
force account. Since this would save foreign currency and DPC had successfully
carried out some force account construction work in the past, the Association
agreed. With hindsight, this was unfortunate since the completion of the office
building, originally not a component of the project was the cause of a two-year
delay in the completion of the project.
3.19      Initially, the work was faced with a shortage of cement as a result of
the building boom in Burundi in the earlier years cf project implementation.
Subsequently progress was adversely affected by the lack of a qualified
supervisor. Finally, it was decided in July 1979 to have the work completed by
a contractor, selected after local competitive bidding. Only two bids were
received and with the Association's approval, the contract was awarded to the
low bidder, a local contractor, for an amount of FBu 12,118,640 (UTS$112,400
equivalent). Because of a shortage of funds, payment of the contract was spread
over 1979 (FBu 7,103,090) and 1980 (FBu 2,925,550). However, the contractor was
also faced with a shortage of cement, and the building was finally
satisfactorily completed in September 1980, about three months behind the
contract schedule.



-10
Studies
3.20      The initial three-month study to define the training needs was
completed in February 1975. After extensive comments from IDA's training
specialist and discussions with Government, the study formed the Basis for a
contract for training courses which did not start until November 1978. The
delay was caused by slow bureaucratic procedures.
3.21      The study by the US-French joint venture for an overall road plan, the
feasibility study for the Ngozi-Muyinga-Kobero road, and the updating of the
feasibility studies for the Bujumbura-Cibitoke-Rugombo and the Bujumbura-
Mutambara roads started in early 1976. The early results, identifying the road
sections for which further feasibility studies and detailed engineering appeared
justified, were available in mid-1976. The outcome of the studies formed the
basis for the Second Highway Project financed under Credit 773-BIT, signed in
March 1978.  The study of the Ngozi-Muyinga-Kobero road resulted in its
in,clusion under the Third Highway Project. The updating of the Bujumbura-
Mutambara road study resulted in its financing by the Kuwait Fund and the
African Development Fund.
Project Cost
3.22      The total cost of the project increased from the 1973 appraisal
estimate of US$8.4 million equivalent to US$8.8 million equivalent at
completion. Considering inflation over the 1974-1980 period, such a small
increase would seem quite satisfactory. However, as shown by Tables I and 2,
the increased amount is not for the same project composition, and the financing
of the technical assistance and training was continued under Credit 773-RTT and a
Project Preparation Facility when the funds of Credit 467-BU were exhausted.
The main project changes are:
(a) Notwithstanding higher equipment prices which would have increased the
estimated cost by some 70% (Table 2), the total amount for equipment
and spare parts is about the same as the US$2.4 million (including 12%
price contingency) estimated at appraisal. This resulted from a
sizeable reduction in the equipment procured, because: (i) some
equipment was procured in the UK and financed from local sources; and
(ii) it was recognized already at an early stage that local funds in
the recurrent budget were insufficient to operate all equipment
originally intended to be procured.
(b)  The amounts allocated for technical assistance services over a
four-year period, financed by a UNDP grant, would have been exhausted
around mid-1977; therefore, UNDP was asked to increase its
contribution by US$1 million, and US$300,000 of InA funds were used to
cover the Government's cost sharing obligation under the UNDP
arrangement. The continuation of the technical assistance contract is
being financed through Credit 773-BTT under which IDA contributes US$2
million for this contract.
(c) The training contract financed by IDA did not start until October
1978, 18 months later than intended. When it became obvious that the
contract would have to be extended by 14 months if it were to achieve
its goal, it was first envisaged to finance the additional cost,
US$300,000, from the unallocated funds of Credit 773-BUT.  However,



-11
when it became clear that costs of the Second Highway Project would be
higher than anticipated and that all unallocated funds of that credit
would be needed for its completion, it was decided that when funds of
Credit 467-BU were exhausted, the additional cost of the training
contract would be paid from a US$1 million Project Preparation
Facility for the preparation of the Third Highway Project. This
arrangement was approved in March 1980.
(d) Funds intended for fuel and materials for betterment works were
largely used for routine maintenance (para 3.17).
Performance of Consultants
3.23      A Belgian consulting firm was responsible for technical assistance to
DPC for the routine and periodic maintenance of the road network. In
performing this task, the experts carried out on-the-job training of their
counterparts and of local staff for jobs such as overseers and foremen. The
performance of the firm as a whole was quite satisfactory. In particular, their
preparation and timely submission of quarterly progress reports was very good.
3.24      The consultants' task was often quite frustrating because of the
problems mentioned in para 3.08. That both the Government and the Association
were satisfied with their performance is demonstrated by the fact that their
contract has been continued under the Second Highway Project and is expected to
be extended under the Third Highway Project.
3.25      A US-French joint venture was responsible for preparation of a
1978-1987 road investment program, of the feasibility study for the
Ngozi-Muyinga-Kobero road and for updating the feasibility study of the
Bujumbura-Mutambara and the Bujumbura-Cibitoke-Rugombo road. The performance of
this joint venture was satisfactory, and two of their studies mentioned above
formed the basis for the Second and Third Highway Projects. The
Bujumbura-Mutambara road was financed jointly by the ADF and the Kuwait Fund and
completed in January 1981.
3.26      The training consultants started their activities only a few months
before the original closing date of the project, for reasons given in
para 3.22 [c]. They were responsible for reorganizing the School of Public
Works in Bujumbura and for teaching there and for training maintenance personnel
through short-term courses at the training center in Gitega. Training of
qualified local staff was slower than expected because of lack of adequate
applicants. Their services have been satisfactory, and their contract is
expected to be extended under the Third Highway Project.
Performance of Contractors
3.27      Only one local contractor was involved in the project.  He was awarded
the contract to complete renovation and extension of the TPC office building in
Bujumbura (para 3.19). The quality of the work was satisfactory, and the
three-month delay in completion may be blamed on the shortage of cement in
Burundi in late 1979 and early 1980.



-12
Performance of Suppliers
3.28      Except for the bidding issue discussed in paras 3.15 and 3.16, the
supply of equipment did not give rise to particular problems. Ironically, when
finally after t'..> two-year delay the Association gave its no objection to the
award for 40 tippers and three other vehicles to Mercedes Benz, another problem
arose after delivery of the vehicles. It appeared that the suspension system
failed on many trucks, either because of unusually bad road conditions, poor
driving habits, and/or a structural weakness. In any event, because by then
some 300 trucks (largely for the military services) had to be serviced and
repaired by the Mercedes dealer, it took a rather long time before the failing
DPC trucks were repaired.
3.29      Another supply problem resulted from the long time (up to 18 months)
which elapsed between the order and delivery of parts. Not only did these
excessive delivery times adversely affect operations; after ordering, prices and
transport costs increased considerably because of inflation necessitating a
re-order. The delays were partly due to the inefficient operations in the port
of Dar es Salaam and on the Tanzania railway. Also pilferage on that route was
excessive.
Disbursements
3.30      Because of the delay of two years in the overall completion of the
project, disbursements were delayed (Table 3). However, the delay resulted from
only a small part of the project. At the time of the original Closing Date,
December 31, 1978, about 75% of the Credit had been disbursed and all but 7%
committed; at the time of the first extended Closing Date, December 31, 1979,
92% had been disbursed and all funds committed.
IV.  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
4.01      It is not possible to separate the contribution to institution
building made by each of the two highway projects financed by IDA in 1974 and
1978, but there is no doubt that the most difficult first step was made under
the First Highway Project financed by Credit 467-BIJ. Notwithstanding the
problems and delays encountered during the implementation, it succeeded in its
goal of beginning to reorganize and strengthen the DPC which, with continued
use of technical assistance, is responsible for implementation of the Second and
Third Highway Projects. The fact that the management of DPC and its successor,
DGR (Direction Generale des Routes) have consistently recognized the need for,
and continue to accept expatriate assistance and training from the same
consultants and German expertise during the implementation of the Second and
Third Highway Projects illustrates that for DPC, and subsequently DGR, quality
of performance and institution building are very imnortant. It also
demonstrates that not only the consultants' experts have performed well but also
the Ministry of Works and the DPC (later DGR) have been taking advantage of the
technical assistance to strengthen their institution and to gradually reduce the
shortage of qualified nationals at all levels.
4.02      The above is illustrated by a few quotations from the Appraisal Report
of the Third Highway Project:



-13
The situation for mid-level and technical positions is
improving considerably...and it is expected that with the
expansion of the training program...the Public Works School
would eventually be able to provide 10 to 12 graduates per
year. This should be sufficient to fill estimated staffing
requirements for the next ten years.
And further,
It is expected that upon completion of the (Third Highway)
Project in 1984 the training center at Gitega will be able
to provide a total of 15 equipment operators, 30 overseers
and 60 foremen per year ... sufficient to fill DGR's
staffing requirements at least during the next ten years.
V. FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTION OF GOVERNMENT TO THE PROJECT
5.01      Whereas the performance of the Ministry of Works and DPC was
satisfactory with respect to institutional development, the same cannot be said
of the financial performance of the Government during the implementation of the
First Highway Project. At negotiations, an understanding was reached that at
least US$1 million per year from the current budget would be allocated for road
maintenance. However, the relevant covenant (section 4.02) in the Credit
Agreement does not mention a specific figure and is limited to the standard
clause that the Government "will provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
etc.
5.02      The financial performance is outside the control of the agency
responsible for the implementation of the project; DPC, which annually submitted
detailed proposals for budget allocations, received only a fraction of what it
needed. Instead of the US$1 million mentioned above, in 1974 the allocation was
only US$640,000, and in 1975 US$600,000 equivalent. It was frequently pointed
out to the Government that compared with other African countries, Burundi's
budget allocation for road maintenance was an extremely low percentage of the
national budget (some 1.3 to 1.5%) but it was not until the Second Highway
Project was appraised and Credit 773-BU negotiated in 1978 that the annual
allocation was increased to IJS$2.5 million equivalent, with the understanding
that future allocations would be determined after discussion with the
Association.
5.03      The shortfall in local funds was covered by contributions from the
National Road Fund (not intended for routine maintenance but amended to allow
its use for that purpose if needed), from the sub-category in the IDA Credit for
fuels and materials (also not intended for day-to-day operations, see para
3.17), and from Belgian aid. THowever, the shortfall would have been greater if
delivery of equipment had not been delayed, postponing the need for funds for
operating the mechanized brigade.
5.04      It may be said, however, that the Government eventuallv recognized the
need for larger budget allocations as indicated by allocating at least US$2.5
million after 1978. Funds provided under the maintenance budget are now
adequate. At the time of credit negotiations of the Third Highway Project, the
Government undertook to allocate US$13.7 million between mid-1981 and mid-1984
to meet the recurrent cost of road maintenance.



-14
VI. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
6.01       A highway maintenance project is actually a slice in ti- of a
continuous program. Therefore, cost overruns and delays in attaining the
expected benefits of the First Highway Project have been partly camouflaged by
the continuation of the maintenance program as part of the subsequent Second
Highway Project which includes, besides construction and betterment of specific
road sections, continuing components of the First HRighway Project.  For example,
the work by the mechanized maintenance brigade and training activities were
eventually financed from subsequent credits when the funds of Credit 467-BIT ran
out. Therefore, it is virtually impossible to clearly separate and quantify the
benefits resulting from the First THighway Project from those of the same
components continued under the subsequent credit.
6.02       By the same token, as mentioned in para 3.22, the modest 5% increase
in the cost of the project is misleading since a considerable number of delayed
project components were financed from subsequent sources after the funds of
Credit 467-BU had been exhausted. Moreover, more than half of the cost of the
project is for technical assistance and studies, the benefits of which do not
lend themselves for quantifying.
6.03       Finally, whatever traffic counts existed at the time of appraisal in
1973 were very unreliable. In 1976, more detailed traffic counts were taken as
part of the highway study. But since then only a few selective traffic counts
have been carried out in the context of feasibility studies for specific roads.
6.04       In Table 4, a comparison is shown of the vehicle operating cost
assumed at the time of project appraisal in mid--1973 and those assumed at the
time of the appraisal of the Second and Third Highway Projects in mid-1977 and
mid-1980 respectively. As may be seen, vehicle operating costs in Burundi
francs in 1977 were some three times and those in 1980 some five to seven times
those assumed in 1973. Obviously, at the time of appraisal, it could not have
been foreseen that inflation would cause vehicle operating costs to increase
five to seven times by 1980. Moreover, whereas under the Fist Highway Project
heavy maintenance was to focus on the worst sections of only 1,400 km of the
3,000 km classified network, in subsequent years improvements spread gradually
to a larger share of the road system.
6.05       In view of the above it is not feasible to re-calculate the economic
return of the First Highway Project on the same basis and under the same
assumptions as was done at the time of appraisal.  However, there are
indications which show that the economic return must be considerably higher than
the 13% calculated in the 1973 report:
(i)  the vehicle fleet grew by an average of 10.2% per annum between 1974
and 1978; this compares with an average growth of 9% over the years
1968-1973 and an assumed 7% traffic growth used as the basis of the
1973 calculation;and
(ii)  the fact that vehicle operating costs in 1980 were some five to seven
times those assumed in 1973 means that also the savings in these
operating costs must be much higher by a similar order of magnitude
than was assumed for the calculation of the ER of 13% in 1973.



-15
VII. THE ROLE OF IDA
7.01      As is the usual practice, goals were set higher and the time schedule
to achieve them was set tighter than could realistically be exDected. For road
construction projects the design, execution and supervision are usually made the
responsibility of experienced consultants and contractors, causing relatively
little burden on the responsible Government agency. Highway maintenance
projects, however, are largely carried out by force account which puts a much
heavier burden on the highway agencies even when expert technical asistance is
provided. They require good organization and managerial skills to run an
operation which involves thousands of employees, and procuring, maintaining and
supplying equipment fleets spread over large areas. In addition, extensive
practical and theoretical training of large numbers of staff and workers on all
levels is needed.  Experience shows the major problems to be financing and
manpower.
7.02      IDA's experience with Burundi's First Highway (Maintenance) Project
confirms the above: not all goals were achieved within the original time
schedule for its completion. However, the project gave an important initial
push to the strengthening of DPC and its manual maintenance operations which was
continued under the Second Highway Project. In addlition, the Association helped
make the Government aware of the importance of highway maintenance and the need
to substantially increase the funds allocated to this endeavor.
7.03      The 1967-1969 UNDP-financed overall highway survey was not needed as
preparation of the project to identify possible ways of reducing transportation
cost by improved maintenance of the existing road network. A maintenance
project could have been started much earlier, without waiting for the
identification, feasibility and engineering studies of specific road
construction projects.
7.04      With road conditions as poor as those prevailing in Burundi in the
late 1960's, routine maintenance is not feasible without spot improvements such
as raising embankments, improving drainage, fixing bridges, and adding gravel
where needed. Since pre-engineering for that type of work would be too costly
and too time-consuming, decisions as to what improvements are needed and where
must be taken on the spot by experienced roadwork supervisors as work
progresses. Such betterment works are most efficiently carried out by
self-contained mechanized brigades, as was intended but hardly begun in the case
of the Burundi First Highway Project.
7.05      Procuring equipment, organizing its maintenance and timely supply of
parts, fuels and materials, and of training of staff and workers is a complex
and time consuming task. In view thereof, consideration should be given to
include in maintenance projects such as that for Burundi a lump sum for
financing of both foreign and local cost of betterment works, under a
construction management-type contract with a foreign firm. The firm would be
responsible for equipping and managing the operation of the mechanized
brigades. The lump sum could be a line of credit, to be used in consultation
with supervising consultants and Bank/IDA staff, and based on a cost plus
formula to be negotiated with the management firm. In case of bilateral donors,
it may be possible to initially carry out betterment works as turn-key projects,



-16
gradually turning over both equipment and responsibilil:ies to the highway
department. The 100% financing arrangement would make it possible for
contractors to import everything that is not locally available, be it equipment,
parts, supplies, key personnel, and even skilled labor from more advanced
neighboring court ries to the extent needed. Training of local staff and works
would proceed concurrently.
7.06      An issue in which IDA has played an important role but which caused
two years delay is the bidding procedure for tracks described in paras 3.15 and
3.16.  This is another example in which IDA is caught between satisfying
its guidelines based on economy, equity and efficiency on one hand and on the
other, accepting understandable preferences of a borrower for standardization by
procuring equipment with which it is familiar and is offered by a dealer which
has long established after-sale service in the country.
7.07      Supervision of the project was adequate, with at least two missions
per year. Except for the last year, these were carried out by the same staff
assuring good continuity. Moreover, supervision was further supported by the
elaborate quarterly progress reports of the technical assistance consultants.
With hindsight, it would have been better if IDA had objected to the
construction of the office building by force account. ITDA's close supervision
has certainly contributed to institution building of the DPC.
7.08      Notwithstanding the comments made as to the delays in the preparation
of the project and the procurement of trucks, ITDA's role has been satisfactory,
and quite positive where it resulted in two follow-up IDA credits in amounts
respectively of US$14 and US$25 million for road projects costing respectivelv
US$26.5 and US$32.1 million.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNT
8.01      On the balance, the project was satisfactorily completed; it provided
the basis for two subsequent highway projects.
8.02      The need to extend the Closing Date with two years largely resulted
from one minor construction job for an office building that was not included in
the original project. At the time of the original Closing Date 75% of the
Credit was disbursed and 93% committed.
8.03      The cost overrun cannot be accurately established since (a)
procurement of equipment was for a reduced number of items; and (b) continuation
of technical assistance and training was financed from a subsequent UNOP grant
and IDA credits for the Second and Third Highway Projects.
8.04      A large share of the credit was for technical assistance and  training
of which economic benefits cannot be quantified. This, plus the lack of traffic
data makes it impossible to recalculate the economic return of t:he project.
However, because of the much larger than average increase in vehicle operating
costs after the appraisal of the project, there need be no doubt that vehicle
operating costs savings resulting from better road maintenance will be much
higher than those assumed at the time of appraisal.



-17
8.05      Under this project, the most positive achievements were attained in
the field of manual road maintenance and this success can mainly be ascribed to
the following favorable conditions in Burundi:
(i) in general there was no problem of availability of manual labor for
maintenance. Because of the scattered settlement pattern and a
general lack of job opportunities in the rural areas, laborers could
be found relatively easily;
(ii) because of the size of the country and the limted extent of the
network under maintenance, continuous and close supervision of
operations was possible;
(iii) both the Government and the technical assistance gave the manual
activities the proper recognition and professionalism they
deserved. This is evidenced by the fact that a training center for
"cantonniers" was established in Gitege.  It can also be noted that
due to the delays in the delivery of the mechanized maintenance
equipment, the technical assistance could, during the start-up phase
of its assignment, concentrate most of its attention on organizing
the manual road maintenance.
8.06        Although significant results were achieved in institution building
during the early years of project implementation, continuous difficulties in
recruiting and retaining qualified counterparts, particularly in the
administrative field, were encountered. This points to the need to address this
problem and to design appropriate solutions before the start-up of the project
which has institution building as one of its main objectives.
8.07        During the course of the project, the Government has become much
more aware of the benefits of improved road maintenance. This is illustrated by
the fact that budget allocations at the end of the project amount to several
times those at the time of project appraisal.  This very encouraging development
is primarily the result of a continuous dialogue with Government on the subject
and the visible achievements attained early on from the maintenance operations.
September 1981



BU RUNDI
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 467-BU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Cost Estimates and Financing
Revised      Revised       Appraisal
Estimates    Estimates      Estimates       Revised
Appraisal    Appraisal      Revised          IDA         Estimates1/
Item                           Estimates    Quantities   Quantities   Contribution   May  1980
…---------US$ '000                       ------  US$ 000     …
A.  Highway Maintenance Program
(i)  German Technical Assistance (GTA)            1,200         1,200         1,200           -              -
(ii)  UNDP Technical Assistance                    1,322         1,700         1,7002/         -
(iii)  Training Expert (s)                             365          550           570           300            530
(iv)  Equipment and Spare parts                    2,150         3,600         2,500         2,000          2,353
(v)  Materials and fuel                             862         1,120         1,245           750            750
(vi)  Workshop construction and equipment (GTA)    403             480           480                                      H
(vii)  Workshop annex and depot construction           172          200           200           150            150         X
6,474        8,850         7,895         3,200          4,083
B. Studies
(i)  Planning, feasibility and engineering          610           550           590           500            579
(ii)  DIWI review of construction methodology          12           13            13            10             12
(iii)  Refinancing of Credit Sl1-BU                    380          302           302           380            302
Subtotal                                     1,002           864           905           890            893
C.  Contingencies on IDA Financed Items                  924            -                         910             24
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                          8,400         9,714         8,800         5,000          5,000
1/ For final disbursements see Table 3, page 2
2/  Government has made a cost-sharing contribution of US$300,000 to UNDP out of the IDA Credit.  Since May 1978, the
technical assistance is financed from a new UNDP contribution totalling US$900,000 for the years 1978-1982 and from Credit
773-BU (Highways II) in the form of a Government cost-sharing contribution.
August 1981.
S    .                                                             S
I     4 



LURtlNDI
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 467-BU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Maintenance Equipment
Appraisal List                     Appraisal List/Actual Cost                      Actual List
Unit Cost   Total Cost                  Unit Cost   Total Cost                   Unit Cost   Total Cost
No. to be   CIF Bujum   CIF Bujum.   No. to be   CIF Buium   CIF Bulum    No. to be   CIF Bujus   CIF Bujum
Type of Equipment            Purchased    US$'000        US$'o00      Purchased    US$'000       11S$'000      Purchased    US$'OOO       US$'000
Bulidozers (100-145 HP)               3            55         154.0            3            76          228            Ol/          -             -
Loaders (100-145 HP)                  4            35         140.0            4            50          200            1            50            50
Graders  (100-145 HP)                 7            38         266.0            7            63          441            21/          63           126
Tractors (heavy)                      1            21          21.0            1            35           35           o0!           -             -
Tractors (light)                      4            7.5         30.0           4             10           40            0            -             -
Rubber wheel rollers                  3            16          48.0            3            56          168            4            56           221
Vibrating rollers                     2             8          16.0            2             9           18            1             9             9
Tanker rollers (6-8 tons)             1            12          12.0            1            35           35            0            -             -
Tipping trucks (6-7 tons)            34            12         408.0          34             29          986           323/          29          928
Trucks  (6-7 tons)                    5            12          60.0            5            29          145            2            29            58
Water tankers (6-8m3)                 2            17.5        35.0            2            36           72            1            36            36
Low loaders                           1            10          10.0            1            20           20            1            20            20
Fuel tankers (6-8m3)                  1            16          16;0            1            36           36            1            36            36
Fuel tank trailers (3-4m3)            4             6          24.0           4             10           40            04/          -             -
Servicing units                       1            14          14.0           1            98            98            1            98           98            'I
Cressing units trailers               2            10          20.0            2             7           14            2             7            14            1
Compressors (3-Sm3)                   1             6           6.0           1             10           10            2            10           20
Four wheel drive vehicles             6             5          30.0           6              8           48            5             8            40
Cars                                  4            4.5         18.0           4              5           20            05/          -            -
Pick-ups and vans                     5            4.5         22.5           5              5           25            0            -             -
Concrete mixers                       3            3            9.0           3              3            9            3             3             9
Water pumps                           7            1.3          9.1            7             1            7            2              1            2
Caravan trailers                      2            4.7          9.4           2             10           20             2             10           20
Heavy tipping trucks                  -            -     -             -             -                   -              1            90            90
Fuel tanks (3-4m3)                                 -            -             -            -             -              4              2            8
Miscellaneous equipment               -            -           95.0           -             -            95             -            -             61
Tools, educational equipment           -            -          16.0           -             -            30             -            -             30
Spare parts                           -            -          500.0           -            -            500             -            -            474      I
Total                                                       2,000.0                                  3,340                                     2,353
1/ Four new bulldozers and five graders were purchased out of the Burundi Road Fund in 1974.
2/ Replaced by heavy truck.
3/ In addition, Government has purchased 15 tipping trucks out of the Burundi Road Fund (10 In 1974; 5 in 1977).
4/ Replaced with simple fuel tanks.
5/ Already provided for in Research and Development contract.
August 1981.



- 20 -
TABLE 3
Page 1
BURUNDI
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 467-BU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Schedule of Disbursements1/
(as of December 31, 1981)
Fiscal Year                                       Actual disbursements
respectively       Actual       Appraisal                as % of
Quarter ending      Total        Estimate          Appraisal Estimates
June 30, 1974         -            0.4                        -
June 30, 1975        0.3           1.4                       21
June 30, 1976        0.7           3.2                       23
June 30, 1977         1.5          4.5                       34
June 30, 1978        3.3           4.9                       67
June 30, 1979        4.0           5.0                       80
Sept 30, 1979        4.3            -                        86
Dec 31, 1979         4.6            -                        96
March 31, 1980        4.7           -                        94
June 30, 1980        4.96           -                        99
Dec 31, 1980          5.072/        -                       100
Closing Dates: Original 12/31/78
First extension 12/31/79
Sec. extension 12/31/80
1/ For disbursements by categories see page 2
2/ Credit of US$ million was exceeded as a result of fluctuation in
exchange rate.
August 1981.



- 21 -
TABLE 3
Page 2
Amount            Schedule 1 of
Category                       disbursed          Credit Agreement
(US$)                 (US$)
I-a Construction of office
facilities for DPC,
expansion of the store of
DPC, and renovation and
equipping of the School
of Public Works                    75,380.26              150.000
I-b Fuel and materials                816,590.80              750.000
I-c Equipment and spare parts       2,405,792.08            2,000.000
II-a Engineering, studies and
supervision of Part I-d of
the Project                        11,535.10               10.000
II-b Consultants' services for
training including training
equipment                         509,451.81              300.000
II-c Highway Master Plan and
Preinvestment Studies under
Parts B and C of the Project    579,424.95                500.000
II-d Technical Assistance for the
reorganization and strengthe-
ning of road maintenance
operations of the Borrower
under Part Al of the Project    300,000.00                   -
III   Refunding of Credit Sll-BU        301,825.00               380.000
IV   Unallocated                           -                    910.000
Total disbursed:               5,000,000.00              5,000.000
August 1981.



- 22 -
TABLE 4
Page 1
BURUNDI
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 467-BU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Vehicle Operating Cost Estimates
(in FBu pr km; net of taxes)
From Appraisal Report January 1974:
Road Condition 1/
Engineered
Vehicle Type                         Earth                   Gravel      Bitumen
1         2           3           4            5
Passenger Car             8.30        6.15        5.10        4.92         3.69
Van                      15.07       12.35       10.37        9.65         6.18
Truck2/                  27.18       22.28       17.82       16.26        10.44
1! Road condition categories are as follows:
1 - exposed base course of 100-200 mm stone.
2 - exposed base course of 50-100 mm stone.
3 - irregular surface; 0-50 mm gravel.
4 - well graded; 0-25 mm gravel.
5 - bituminous paved.
2/  Average vehicle operating cost for 2.5-ton and 7-ton trucks (petrol and
diesel).
Source: Engineering Study - August 1971.
Mission Estimates - July 1973.
August 1981.



- 23 -
"ABLE 4
Page 2
From Appraisal Report February 1978
A. Level Terrain
Road Type                                         Vehicle Type 1
Private               Light   Medium   Heavy
Car     Pick-up    Truck    Truck   Truck
Poor Earth                          25.2       32.8       51.8     85.3   172.3
Good Earth                          20.3       27.3      41.7      67.9   137.1
Engineered Gravel (In-situ)         16.8       22.2      33.3      53.0   107.8
Engineered Gravel (Realigned)       14.9       19.7       27.3     43.1    82.0
Bitumen                             12.9       17.6      22.7      36.2    68.0
B. Undulating Terrain
Poor Earth                          27.6       37.7      66.9    111.6   216.1
Good Earth                          22.0       32.0      51.9      85.6   166.6
Engineered Gravel (In-situ)         17.8       24.3      39.0      63.1   124.5
Engineered Gravel (Realigned)       15.3       20.9      29.7      47.4    91.3
Bitumen                             13.1       18.2      24.2      39.0    72.6
1/  Peugeot 304; Toyota Stout 200; Fiat 2.5-ton; Mercedes 6.5-ton;
Fiat 22-ton.
Source: "Highway Investment Program 1978-1987"
Draft Final Report, February 1977.
From Appraisal Report February 1981:
Earth Track          Low Standard Gravel Road
Flat   Mountainous         Flat    Mountainous
Terrain   Terrain          Terrain    Terrain
Car                         43.05       47.50           29.16        30.84
Pick-up                     61.80       71.21           43.44        46.40
Light Truck                 97.49      197.03           61.59        72.56
Medium Truck                174.64     228.35          106.80       127.02
Source: Same as previous, updated to mid-July 1980 by IDA staff.



a       V      *                                                                                                                                                     C               I



IBRD 2829R5
BURUND 
e    take                                                                 1                                              0 0 0              I          
.               .                                                                     r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ko~  A.                                 TEnEI',A  AIP
< ~ ~~ ~ ~~~         ~          ~      ~      ~~~        ~~~~~~~           DStn'oc ~.  J                            0        0ETI  '> % \   RPJDO       40       5
\  .   DSSANZAAgEIRo,,EondoerffDEoo
|  t  Xe  \;uzinda  Mjr  LURhM'lYA             %          )   /t                 <\vX                       Xan                            X
ovira              ~         -      -                      ~                                         
B UJUMBaURA              -          c                                  \fTG                                            
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mr                                                           s  uonga                     UYIGI   
O                                                                        Y  ,       i s h ub ir   zakebuo|                                 !       ;
tJ   /     |                       I umuyange 4,                                      [lankae)  u  
.  4  \ X   t                       >'                            g                         w                   ~~~~~~~ROAD SYSTEM
/      \  )          t<                  >- s                                  RjJTAN           /                              PAVED ROADS
- 4                                                                              ,                                                                               uabr   -  aE ROAD  :iqFPCl7-RJCT.ri ;4
g   \  MutaCD9  ~~~~~~            >                   0             7  Gi hlDri 2  +           * e e @~~~~~.  .  RDADS BEINoG SILC r D
}  j   /\1    >   \7\                        \               \         (<ular~~~~~~         ~     ~~~~~~~ha  /  ROADS STUDIED UNDER ENIGINEERIN'CRD crk '1 - r
J (   e  \   vL                     vMakaRlba        g                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EeTTERMEtIT SURVEY
f t j | r \ &-_ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ DETAILED ENG-INEFRIG11
> ) t | :6 I r > rikinql ! . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HIGHWAY NiAINTENIA:CF PILJL-C
s ./§ | | t \ \ _ u / . . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TO BE  v AINTAIWEID
t  /   {    |   ~~~~~~ \            \        /M2ban~~P~bda                      .Itoo         R PRE-INVL iT11ENT 5-UlOY
/        !           ~~~~~Nya nz2,             )                                                                     NT1.2  TTICi1L AilRror-
/   l   Lac  X                  .                                                   _._  It:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TFRN4AT I )rAL L)ulAil
?   j                        ) ttunina~~       ~~      ~~~~ b-1 gudiA - dvcl  r c^'''  ze.             °        KchEEa
6   \               X         -} To .TiGGrla            l) j                                                                                  _~~~~"



