CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 467 BU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Maintenance Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 27, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 467 BU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Maintenance Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 27, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 27, 1974, between the REPUBLIC OF
BURUNDI      (hereinafter  called  the  Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   By a development credit agreement dated June 19, 1970, (hereinafter
called the First Development Credit Agreement) between the Borrower and the
Association, the Association granted to the Borrower a credit (hereinafter called
the First Credit) in various currencies equivalent to three hundred and eighty
thousand dollars ($380,000) to assist in financing of detailed highway engineering
and of a highway maintenance study;
WHEREAS the Association is prepared to refund the First Credit out of
the proceeds of the Credit provided for herein;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 (h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "DPC" means Department of Roads and Bridges of the Borrower's
Ministry of Public Works, and any successor thereto; and


﻿4
(b)   "Road Fund" means the National Road Fund of the Borrower; and
(c)   "FBu" means Francs in the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories,
and provided further that no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
under Category I(b) and (c) of Schedule I to this Agreement until the Borrower
shall have employed, or otherwise secured the services of, the consultants referred
to in Section 3.03(ii) and (iii) of this Agreement.
(b)  The Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to
itself, on behalf of the Borrower, the amount required to refund the principal
amount withdrawn and outstanding, together with the service charges thereon, of
the First Credit, on the Effective Date of this Agreement. Any amount remaining
unwithdrawn in the Credit Account of the First Credit shall automatically be
cancelled on the same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1978 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿5
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 15 and
December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in  semi-annual installments payable on   each  June 15   and  December 15
commencing June 15, 1984 and ending December 15, 2023 each installment to
and including the installment payable on December 15, 1993 to be one-half of
one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.0 1. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Ministry
of Public Works with due diligence and effi6iency and in conformity with sound
administrative, financial, engineering, and highway maintenance practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall agree with the Association upon the appropriate
allocation of funds available for training under Category 11(b) of Schedule I to
this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section
3.01 hereof, the Borrower shall annually allocate and appropriate to DPC funds
sufficient to fulfill its obligations under Section 4.02 of this Agreement and shall
promptly notify the Association of any such annual allocation and appropriation.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower until completion of the Project
in (i) the reorganization of DPC and training of its staff; (ii) the execution of
its highway maintenance program; (iii) the preparation of bidding documents and
the evaluation of bids for the procurement of road maintenance equipment, spare
parts and materials- (iv) the establishment of the highway development master plan
under Part C of the Project; and (v) the execution of the feasibility and detailed
engineering studies under Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, or


﻿6
otherwise obtain the services of, consultants acceptable to the Borrower and the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, training program for local staff,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to inspect
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall (i) adequately maintain its national road
network, or cause said network to be adequately maintained, in accordance with


﻿7
sound engineering and financial practices; (ii) cause all of its highway maintenance
equipment to be adequately maintained and all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof to be made, all in accordance with sound engineering practices; (iii) cause
suitable workshops to be established and maintained for the foregoing; and (iv)
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the foregoing.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall consult with the Association during the
first six months of calendar year 1977 on the definition of the second phase of
its road maintenance program and the financing thereof.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all measures reasonably required to
ensure that the dimensions and axle-loads of vehicles using its national highway
network shall not exceed limits consistent with the design standards of such roads.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall collect and record in accordance with
appropriate statistical methods and procedures such data as are required to assess
the technical, economic and financial aspects of the Borrower's road network for
proper planning of maintenance, improvements and extensions of said road network.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.


﻿8
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding


﻿9
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.01. The date June 27, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01, 4.02,
4.04 and 4.05 of this Agreement shall cease and terminate on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty (20) years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 1830
Bujumbura, Burundi
Cable address:
MINIFIN
Bujumbura


﻿10
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By /s/ J. Ndabaniwe
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                     Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.   Highway main-
tenance program:
(a)  Construction of               150,000           87% of total
a workshop annex                               expenditures
at Bujumbura and
a maintenance
depot at Gitega
and equipping of
the School of
Public Works of
Bujumbura
(b)  Fuel and                      750,000           87% of total
materials                                      expenditures
(c)  Equipment and                2,000,000          100% of foreign
spare parts                                    expenditures
II.  Consultants' Services                                100% of foreign
expenditures
(a)  Engineering, stud-             10,000
ies and Supervision
of Part D of the
Project
(b)  Consultants' serv-            300,000
ices for training
including training
equipment
(c)  Highway Master Plan           500,000
and Preinvestment
studies under Parts
B and C of the
Project


﻿12
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                      Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
III.  Refunding of the First             380,000          100% of foreign
Credit                                               expenditures
IV.  Unallocated                         910,000
TOTAL             5,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the  term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the  term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to    the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of expenditures incurred under Category 11(a)
prior to such date but subsequent to February 1, 1973 in an amount not to exceed
the equivalent of $10,000; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:


﻿13
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I(a)
or I(b) shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists in:
Part A:    Implementation of a four-year highway maintenance program which
provides for:
1.   the reorganization and strengthening of road maintenance operations
of the Borrower, including the training of maintenance personnel at
all levels;
2.    the purchase of road maintenance equipment, spare parts, fuel and
materials;
3.    the construction and equipping of a mechanical workshop and
storeroom at Bujumbura and of a small maintenance depot at Gitega;
renovation and equipping of the School of Public works of Bujumbura;
and
4.    the improvement of routine and periodic maintenance operations over
the national road network, as specified in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Part B:    Feasibility study and detailed engineering for improvement of the
Ngozi-Muyinga-Kobero Road (about 110 km) if the improvement shall
be considered economically justified by the Borrower and the
Association.
Part C:    Preparation of a master plan for developing the Borrower's highway
network and prcinvestment studies to be carried out during the period
January 1, 1974 to June 30, 1978; the specific studies to be
undertaken will be determined by agreement from time to time
between the Borrower and the Association.
Part D:    Financing of engineering studies completed before November 1, 1973,
for the Bujumbura-Mutambara-Nyanza Lac Road.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1978.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    Whenever practicable, identical or similar items of equipment shall be grouped
together to form economic bid packages for purposes of bidding, such grouping
to be subject to the approval of the Association.
2.    With respect to any contract for goods and services estimated to cost the
equivalent of $20,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The successful bidder in respect of civil works shall, at the Borrower's
option, furnish either a performance bond or a bank guarantee in an amount of
not less than ten per cent (10%) of the contract price, which bond or guarantee
shall remain in effect until six months after completion of the works provided
for in the contract. In addition, the contract shall provide for retention of not
less than ten per cent (10%) of the cost of works on each monthly invoice. These
retentions may cease to be made when the cumulative amount retained reaches
about five per cent (5%) of the total contract price. One-half of the retention
moneys shall be released when all the work has been substantially completed, and
the other half fourteen days after the termination of the contractor's responsibility
in respect of defects. The period during which the contractor will remain responsible


﻿16
in respect to defects in the works (fair wear and tear excepted) will extend for
one year after acceptance of the works.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawals of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of any such contract.
3.    With respect to any other contract for goods and services, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such detenrination. However, with respect to
any contract for less than $10,000 equivalent bidding may be advertised locally
only.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 4
Roads to be Maintained During the Four-Year
Maintenance Program 1974-1977
Roads to Receive Regular Maintenance                   Length (km)
Bituminous Paved Roads
Existing:
Bujumbura - Bugarama - Muramvya - Gitega                  102
Airport road                                                6
Bujumbura - Zaire border                                   14
122
Under Construction:
Bugarama - Rwanda Border                                   82
Sub-total                                 204
Earth and Gravel Roads
Bujumbura (PK6) - Cibitoke - Rwanda Border                 80
Kayanza - Ngozi - Muyinga                                 1I1
Muyinga - Kobero                                           28
Gitega - Muyinga                                           91
Gitega - Ngozi                                             82
Gitega - Songa - Makebuko                                  25
Makebuko - Butambara - Gihofi                              71
Mutambara - Bururi - Songa                                113
Bujumbura - Mutambara - Nyanza Lac                        121
Bujumbura - Mwaro - Songa                                 109
Bujumbura - Muzinda - Bubanza                              40
Nyanza Lac - Mabanda                                       25
RN 6 - Kirundo                                             30
RIG 8 - Kaninya                                            27
Ruzira - Kumuyange - RIG 8                                 59
Bururi - Makamba - Mabanda                                 70
Various sections to be selected                           114
Sub-total                               1,196
Total                                   1,400


