Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. 10749
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2359-CHA/CREDIT 1594-CHA)
JUNE 29, 1992
Transport Operations Division
Country Department II
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Renminbi (RMB) or Yuan (Y)
US$1    =   Y5.30 (at completion - June 30, 1991)
US$1    =   Y2.84 (at appraisal)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                       = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                  = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 square meter (sq m)             = 10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 square kilometer (sq km)        = 0.4 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)                    = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)                   = 2.2046 pounds (Ibs)
1 metric ton (m ton)              = 2,204 pounds (Ibs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CADE         - Computer-aided Design and Engineering
ERR          - Economic Rate of Return
HB           - Highway Bureau
HPDI         - Highway Planning and Design Institute
HSRI         - Highway Scientific Research Institute
ICB          - International Competitive Bidding
IDA          - International Development Association
LCB          - Local Competitive Bidding
MOC          - Ministry of Communications
PTTS         - Provincial Transportation Technical School
PHB          - Provincial Highway Bureau
SAR          - Staff Appraisal Report
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Diretor-Genefal
Opeations Evaluation
June 19, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on China Highway Project (Loan 2359-
CHA/Credit 1594-CHA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on China Highway Project (Loan 2359-CHA/Credit 1594-CHA)"
prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office with Part II
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
?-5.JECQT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLES' REPUBLIC OE' CHINA
HIGHWA'Y PROJECT
(CREDIT 1594-CHA/LOAN 2539-CHA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .... . . ..i
Evaluation Summary.                                        iii
I.     Part I - Project Review from Bank's Perspective
1. Project Identity                  .1
2. Background                       .1
3.  Project Objectives and Description        .1
4.  Project Design and Organization          .2
5. Project Implementation                .3
6. Project Results                   .4
7. Projc Sustainability                 .5
8. IDA Performance                    .6
9. Borrower Performance                  .7
10. Project Relationship               .7
11. Consulting Services and Contractors        .7
12. Project Documentation and Data           .7
II.    Part II - The Borrower's Project Completion Report  .     8
III.    Part HI - Sumnmary of Statistical Data
Table 1:      Related Bank Loans and/or Credits           12
Table 2:    Project Timetable .13
Table 3:      Credit/Loan Disbursements
A. Cumulative Disbursements .14
B. Disbursements by Category .14
Table 4:      Project Implementation
A. Project Summary  . .15
B. National and Rural Roads  .     . 
Table 5:      Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs. .                            18
B. Project Financing   .       .18
Table 6:      Project Results
A. Economic Impact
I. Project Sumary .19
II. National and Rural Roads .19
B. Studies  . .22
C. Overseas Training  . .22
Table 7:      Status of Covenants    .     .23
Table 8:      Use of IDA Resources
A. Staff Inputs  . .24
B. Missions  . .24
r This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MAPS
China Transport System -   IBRD 18708R
Anhui Province -           IBRD 18345R
Yunnan Province -          IBRD 18347R
Guangxi Province -         IBRD 18349R
Zhejiang Province -        IBRD 18350R
Sichuan Province -         IBRD 18351R
Jiangxi Province -         IBRD 18352
Shandong Province -        IBRD 18353R
Shaanxi Province -         IBRD18554R



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLES' REPUBLIC OF CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1594-CHA/LOAN 2539-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Highway Project in
China, for which Credit 1594-CHA in the amount of SDR 30.3 million (Equivalent
to approximately US$30.0 million at appraisal) and Loan 2539-CHA in the amount
of SDR42.6 million were approved on May 14, 1985.  The credit and loan were
closed on schedule on June 30, 1991. Disbursements under the credit amounted to
SDR 30.3 million (equivalent to US$37.6 million) and under the loan to US$29.6
million. US$13 million was canceled from the loan, effective March 28, 1989.
The final disbursement from the credit was made on April 28, 1989 and from the
loan on July 31, 1991.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Transport Operations Division, Country
Department II of the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary and Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II) and is based, inter alia,
on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Credit and Loan Agreements; supervision
reports; the Borrower's own records and monthly reports; correspondence between
the Bank and the Borrower; and internal memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLES' REPUBLIC OF CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1594 C!4/LOAN 2539-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
The objective of the Highway Project was to assist the Government's major development program of
national and rural road construction, by supporting the I-ighway Bureau of the Ministry of Communications
(MOC) and, through it, the Provincial and County Highway Bureaus and MOC's highway technical institutes, in
order to facilitate both industrial and agricultural growth (Part I para 3.01). This was to be achieved by
ntroducing measures which would be instrumental in improving the quality of future construction works,
ncreasing the cost-effectiveness of highway investments, supporting a highway research program and
strengthening the capabilities of staff. The major components of the project were (Part I para 3.02):
(a)   construction or improvement of about 230 km of "missing links" on National roads;
(b)   construction or improvement of about 1,400 km of rural roads;
(c)    provision of computer-aided design and engineering (CADE) equipment and site investigation and
related laboratory equipment for the Highway Planning and Design Institute (HPDI) in order to
modernize future highway designs;
(d)    provision of laboratory testing and other research-related equipment for the Highway Scientific
Research Institute (HSRI) in support of their research program, including studies on the
strengthening of the paved national road network, road congestion and road safety;
(e)   training of staff from MOC's Highway Bureau (HB), the Provincial Highway Bureaus (PHB), the
HPDI and HSRI;
(f)   consultants' services and technical assistance to help MOC, the PHBs, HPDI and HSRI in the
supervision and quality control of road construction, for studies to be done under the research
program and for seminars and workshops as needed; and
(g)    purchase of basic road maintenance equipment for selected provinces.
Implementation Experienc
The Highway Project was appraised in October/November 1984, the Credit and Loan were approved on
lay 14, 1985 and became effective on December 4, 1985. The IDA Credit (1594-CHA) for the project amounted to
DR30.3 million (equivalent to approximately US$30.0 rnillion at appraisal) and the IBRD Loan (2539-CHA)
amounted to US$42.6 million. Both the Credit and Loan were fully disbursed, although US$13 million was
cancelled from the Loan effective March 28,1989
As this project was the first involvement of the Bank Group in the highway subsector, it was by way of
being a pioneer for future projects and was therefore designed to involve several PHBs and was spread out over a
wide geographical area (Part I paras 4.01 and 4.02).
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) identified the major risk as possible delays to start-up caused by
unfamiliarity with ICB and LCB procedures in the case of the national roads and with the required contract
management and supervision procedures used on the rural roads. Construction by force account was envisaged
for the rural roads at appraisal, but in the event a limited form of competitive bidding was introduced in some



- iv -
cases. Measures to mitigate delay in commencement of works were taken by providing foreign technical
assistance to help in project preparation for national roads, and by providing well defined guidelines to provincial
and municipal units for the rural roads.
While most of the components of the project started shortly after the signing of the Loan and Credit
Agreements in September 1985, several contracts did mot start promptly for a variety of reasons that included
land acquisition problems, the necessity for redesign ar d the unavailability of equipment and materials on time.
About 86% of civil works contracts overran their implementation peric ds as envisaged during project appraisal.
However, the nominal implementation periods of 27 and 24 months, given in the SAR for the national and rural
roads respectively, did not necessarily take into consideration the full complexity of the work on each road,
because, at the time, only preliminary engineering was available, so imp;ementation periods were revised as
detailed design work was completed. Therefore, by and large, the delays in completion were not excessive, and
the project as a whole was completed on schedule except for two roads, for which further work within the
original scope was approved, which will be completed by the end of 1992.
Apart from scheduling, there were very few variances between the planned and actual implementation of
the various project components from a quantitative or qualitative point of view. Some road s-ctions finished up
slightly longer or shorter than foreseen at appraisal and in a few cases road standards were upgraded as a result
of unforeseen increases in traffic volumes or because of upward revision of estimates of future traffic.
At an early stage of the project, MOC initiated the setting up of a supervision system that operated at
county, provincial and national levels, with the purpose of ensuring the quality of the works. Engineers and
technicians from each of the participating provinces attended training courses in supervision duties as few had
the necessary experience. The concept of external supervision was not an easy one for the local construction
industry tc absorb as there was little tradition of supervision of this type in the past. Inspectior.j were, however,
carried out regularly and work that was clearly below standard was corrected or done again with stress being laid
on compliance with the specifications. This was a major factor in the successful outcome of the project.
Project Results
The project achieved all its major objectives (Part I paras 6.01 to 6.05). It had a considerable impact on the
quality of construction works by the introduction of systematic supervision and the adoption of more up-to-date
specifications for materials and workmanship, though the results varied somewhat beiween provinces, which
largely reflected variations in the quality of available materials and technical expertise of local engineering staff.
The use of improved economic evaluation techniques for selecting road investments and the introduction of some
measure of competition into the road construction industry has had a beneficial effect on the cost effectiveness of
highway investments generally. The highway research program and the provision of some specialised equipment
have resulted in improved designs and specifications and methods for improving and strengthening the existing
road network. The training program was effective in improving the technical skills of highway staff at provincial
and county level particularly in the fields of quality control, constructicn management, contract administration,
documentation artd competitive bidding.
Development objectives were also achieved to a degree that had been underestimated at appraisal. The
opening up of all-weather access to areas that had previously relied on porters or rough tracks, has resulted in
substantial increases in the standard of living of those within the influence zone of the new roads, the creation of
new industries or the revitalising of existing ones and the exploitation of mineral deposits that were formerly
uneconomic.
The direct environmental impact of the project has been positive in that it has contributed to the reduction
of dust pollution and traffic accidents by better road surfaces and alignments and to reducing the risk of local
flooding and accumulation of water through improved road side drainage. In some respects there is a risk that
the environment could be affected adversely by some project roads in an indirect manner, where improved access
could facilitate mnineral exploitation, the establishment of pollution-prone industries or an increase in forestry
operations. So far, however, no such effects have been identified.



- v -
Despite its wide geographical scope, which made regular supervision difficult, this was a successful
*oject. The Borrower showed much determination to overcome the difficulties that arose and to complete the
oject.
The civil works component of the project has already generated substantial tangible benefits, as reflected
the levels of ERRs for the project roads. It is expected that the present trend of net benefit flow would be
sustained through the traffic generated by increased production and industrial activity in the influence areas of
the project roads. One obvious risk to this would be the inadequate maintenance of the roads leading to a
reduction in vehicle operation cost savings. The relevant authorities are conscious of such risk and assurances
have been given to the Bank that sufficient funding would be secured for the adequate maintenance of the project
roads. Furthermore, the Bank's experience in China regarding road maintenance practices mitigates the risk of the
deterioration of the project roads through neglect.
Findings and Lessons Learned
Bank missions, during both project preparation and implementation, were constrained by time and
gistical difficulties to visiting but a portion of the project road sites, implyirg that a project extending over nine
provinces might have been too ambitious On the other hand, since this was the f -qt involvement of the Bank in
the highway sector in China, taking a risk in this respect seems to have been compensated for by spreading the
benefits resulting from the project to a greater number of provinces. Furthermore, the Bank's initial involvement
ith a larger number of provinces became an advantage during the preparation of subsequent provincial
ghway projects i six out of the nine provinces which participated in this Highway Project because these
provinces were already familiar with most of the Bank's policies and procedures.
As a result of the project, there is now a general recognition in MOC and several provincial road
administrations that the competitive bidding process and independent supervision are both beneficial and there
has been a trend to follow these practices not only on externally financed projects but also on those which are
ternaily financed.
The Bank learned some valuable lessons (Part I para 8.03) on the necessity for carrying out detailed
engineering early in the project preparation process in order to obtain accurate cost estimates, on weighing
carefully the advantages and disadvantages of multi-provincial participation in a single highway project,
particularly in terms of the problems created by the involvement of a number of executing agencies and the
resulting geographical spread which could strain resources, and on the need to continue to assist the highway
staff to achieve higher standards by training and technical assistance matched to the needs of the Borrower. The
Borrower also learned some useful lessons (Pirt I para 9.03) that should be applied to future projects on the
irofitability of investment in rural roads, the value of economic evaluation, supervision and compliance with
specifications, and, through the experience of competitive bidding, on contract administration and preparation of
icceptable documents for international bidding.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLES' REPUBLIC OF CHTNA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1594-CHA/LOAN 2539-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW Ffl3M BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
- Project Name .................          Highway Project
- Loan/Credit Numbers .................   Credit 1594-CHA/Loan 2539-CHA
- RVP Unit ................. East Asia and Pacific
Country .................               Peoples' Republic of China
- Sector .....................            Transport
- Subsector .................             Highway
2.     Background
2.01   Like other centrally planned economies, China's economy is very transport intensive. The transport
system is heavily concentrated along the eastern seaboard and historically has been served mainly by rail, inland
water transport and coastal shipping. During the period 1975-1985, however, highways started to take an
increasing, but still relatively small, share of both freight and passenger traffic, largely relieving the railways.
Transport facilities remained poor in remote and rural areas, where mountainous terrain and large rivers made
nvestment costs relatively high.
2.02   In the early 1980's, investment in the highway subsector had levelled off at about 15% of all investment in
transport and communications, having fallen from 25% in the early 1960's. During the same period, the
Government prepared its Seventh Five-Year Development Plan (1986-1990), which recognized the need for much
larger investment in all modes of transport if bottlenecks to economic development were to be avoided.
ndividual modes were to be expanded and links established between them, together with the incorporation of
new technology and the strengthening of institutions.
2.03   In 1982, the Bank Group became involved in the transport sector for the first time with the Three Ports
Project (Loan 2207-CHA), followed, in 1984, by the First Railway Project (Loan 2394-CHA). In 1985, further port
and railway subsector projects were under preparation. This project, the first in the highway subsector, aimed to
assist the Government's major development program of national and rural road construction, by supporting the
Highway Bureau of the Ministry of Communications (MOC) and, through it, the Provincial and County Highway
Bureaus and MOC's highway technical institutes, in order to facilitate both industrial and agricultural growth.
2.04   Although China's road network was, in 1983, the sixth largest in the world, it was generally of low
standard. Only about 19% of the roads had a bituminous surfacing, the rest having gravel or earth surfaces of
varying quality. Traffic was increasing at an annual rate of 1'.: with trucks far outnumbering cars. Trucks,
though relatively small at about 8 tons capacity, were increasing in size, which was causing consequent excessive
damage to road pavements. Although substantial efforts had been made to maintain the network in a reasonable
condition, it was recognised that greater investment was essential for systematic upgrading and strengthening of
pavements, particularly in more heavily trafficked corridors.
3.     Project Objectives and Description
3.01   Project Objectives. Against the prevailing background of the highway subsector, the objectives of the
project were to:
(a)    improve the quality of future construction works by:
(i)    modernizing highway design; and
(ii)    updating and improving construction and material specifications;



-2-
(b)   increase the cost-effectiveness of highway investments by:
(i)   improving techniques for the economic evaluation and selection of road irvestments; and
(ii)   supporting the Government's intention of adopting competitive bidding for public
works;
(c)   support a highway research program, with particular emphasis on improving and strengthening
the existing paved national road network, improving road capacity in congested areas and
improving road safety; and
(d)   strengthen the capabilities of staff working in the highway subsector by carrying out a training
program.
3.02   Project Components. To accomplish these objectives the project included:
(a)   construction or improvement of about 230 km of "missing links" on national roa,As;
(b)    construction or improvement of about 1,400 km of rural roads;
(c)    provision of computer-aided design and engineering (CADE) equipment and site investigation
and related laboratory equipment for the Highway Planning and Design Institute (HPDI) in order
to modernize future highway designs;
(d)    provision of laboratory testing and other research-related equipment for the Highway Scientific
Research Institute (HSRI) in support of their research program, including studies on the
strengthening of road pavements, reducing road congestion and improving road safety;
(e)   training of staff from MOC's Highway Bureau (HB), the Provincial Highway Bureaus (PHB)
HPDI, HSRI, and the Provincial Transportation Technical Schools (P1TS);
(f)    consultant services and technical assistance to help MOC, PHBs, HPDI and HSRI in the
supervision and quality control of road construction, for studies to be done undet the research
program and for seminars and workshops as needed; and
(g)    purchase of road maintenance, laboratory and road research equipment.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.01   This project was the first involvement of the Bank Group in the highway subsector. The concept of the
project was proposed by MOC, and its scope was formulated following extensive discussions between the state
and provincial administrations, which would be involved in the project, and the Bank. The timing of the project
was appropriate, as pressure was building up to improve road infrastructure to cater for the road traffic demand
generated by the accelerating development in the agricultural and industrial sectors resulting from the new
economic reform-oriented policy of China. In the context of road construction and improvement practice in the
country at that time, the project was iinovative in that it was designed to introduce basic principles of project
selection through economtic evaluation, implementation tirough well defined contract management procedures
and quality control through independent supervision. Also, there was a recognized need for the enhancement of
road engineering pracdces at the different levels of the highway administrations.
4.02   Although the components of the project we  well selected, it was not fully realized at the time that a
geographically more concentrated road program would have been easier to adn.inister. As it happened, the civil
works component, comprising 66 road sections, was spread over an area of about 3 million sq km in nine
provinces. Such wide coverage meant that a fair number of institutions at various levels had to get involved,
which made the preparation and subsequent supervision of the project implementation by MOC and the Bank a
demanding undertaking. Most of the preparation work was assigned to the implementing provinces under the
general guidance of Bank and MOC staff, including the selection and evaluation of the various road sections. To
overcome the unfamiliarity of provincial personnel with the requirements and procedures entailed in projec
preparation and implementation, PHBs set up oi'ices, within the respective provincial and municipal transpor
bureaus, specially designated for project related tasks.



-3-
5.01   The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) identified the major risk as possible delays to project start-up caused by
unf..miliarity with ICB and LCB procedures, in the case of the national roads, and with the ag-ed contracting and
supervision procedures used on the rural roads. Measures to mitigate delay in commencement of works were
taken by providing foreign technical assistance to help in project preparation for national roads, and by providing
well defined guidelines to provincial and municipal units (para 4.02) for the rural roads.
5.02   Nevertheless, some uncertainty remained about the requirements in the areas of procurement, conitract
management, supervision and quality control at provincial and municipal levels, and it took s.ame time for the
administrative units involved to become acquai;ited with the new set of procedures. Some of the implementation
delays could be attributed to such difficulties. Also, there were several contracts that did not start promptly for a
variety of reasons that included land acquisition problems, the necessity ;,- redesign and the unavailability of
equipment and materials on time.
5.03   About 86% of civil works contracts overran their implementation periods as envisaged during project
appraisal. However, the nominal implementation periods of 27 and 24 months, given in the SAR for the national
and rural roads respectively, did not necessarily take into consideration the full complexity of the work on e.ch
read, because, at the time, only preliminary engineering was available, so implementation periods were revised as
detailed design work was completed. Therefore, by and large, the delays in completio'n were not excessive, (Wart
111, Table 4B) and the project as a whole was completed on schedule except for some training, which was
completed in July 1991, and two roads (National Road #02 and Rural Road #01), for which further work within
the original scope was approved, which will be completed by the end of 1992.
5.04   Apart from delays in completion, there were differences between the planned and actual implementation
of some civil works components from quantitative or qualitative aspects. Some road sections finished up slightly
longer or shorter than foreseen at appraisal and, in a few cases, road standards were upgraded as a result of
unforeseen increases in traffic volumes or because of upward revision of estimates for future traffic. For example,
national road #07 was constructed to Class 2 rather than Class 3 standard because of the greater than expected
traffic growth on this shortcut route between Chengdu and Chongqing in Sichuan Province. In another case,
modifications were made to a bridge design in Anhui Province based on updated soils data and in order to assure
compatibility with a water conservation project. The required charges affected both construction time and the
cost of construction. Rural roads #01 and #61, initially designed and built as gravel-surfaced roads, were
upgraded to asphalt surfacing warranted by increased volume of traffic and excessive dust affecting crops.
5.05   At an early stage of the project, MOC initiated the setting up of a supervision system that operated at
different levels, county, provincial and national, with the purpose of ensuring the quality of the works. Engineers
and technicians from each of the participating provinces attended training courses in supervision duties, as few
had the necessary experience. The concept of independent supervision was not an easy one for the local
construction industry to absorb as there was little tradition of supervision of this type in the past. InspFctions
were, however, carried out regularly and work that was clearly below standard was corrected or done again with
stress being laid on compliance with the specifications. This was a major factor in the successful outcome of the
project.
5.06   The cost overrun for the project as a whole, in local currency, has been Y179.6 million, or 38.2%. This
comes predominantly from the cost overrun on the civil works, Y186.7 million or 41.8%, wl.ile there have been
some savings in the staff training, consultant services and road maintenance equipment acquisition components.
The crst overrun on civil works was caused by increased costs of labor and materials as a resutt of the overall
inflationary trends in 1987 and 1988. In some cases, variation in design was also accompanied by '.4gier costs.
The design changes, at times, could be traced back to less than adequate project preparation, but some were also
necessitated by the recognized need for accommodating somewhat different requirements based on more up-to-
date information or changed circumstances. Despite the overall cost increase, in local currency terms, the sum of
$13 million was cancelled from the loan because the increase was more than offset by devaluationt of the Yuan
a-ainst the US$, the increase iL. value of the SDR against the US$, and underexpenditure on some components.
5.07   In retrospect, it seems that the difficulties of administrative control by MOC and regular supervision by
Bank staff of such a geographically scattered road improvement program may have been underestimated, but
similarly the innate capabilities and tena:iiy of the Chinese at the different levels of responsibility were also
underrated. These factors eventually largely outweighed and overcame the initial difficulties associated with



- 4 -
readilv understanding and meeting the Bank's requiremroents, and were crucial to the successful outcome of the
projt.ct
5.08   During implementatior., MOC had somc difficulty adjusting to the requirements of being a project
exc-CLltinTg agency. Tlere was no regular reporting from the provir^c to MOC and from MOC to the Bank, and
the combined effect of staff shortages and geographical spread madc it difficult for MOC to obtain regular
progrcss reportiLlg from the provinces. To conmpeTnsate for the lack of written information on implementation,
MOC would organize joint meetings with the provinces at about nine month intervals to assess the progress of
lAoLks and discuss impl-mentation issues. MOC also provided technical guidance during periodic site visits in
the interests of improving {he quality of works.
5.09   MO(: coordinat-.d the sta "trainin, programs, the procurement of equipment and the carrying out of the
studies. These activities in' olved aisc HPDI and HSRI, and were carried out satisfactorily and without any major
delays.
6.     1L IM-ls.
6.011  Tihe project achieved its set objectives. The use of economic evaluation iechniques for selecting the roads
for inclusion in the project and the introa action of a measure of competition through ICB and local procurement
processes have been convincing means of demonstrating ithe cost effectiveness of these methods. As regards
enhancement of future road construction works, the project introduced improved technology in the participating
provinces through the adoption of appropriately formulated technical specifications under the road construction
and irnprovement comnponent of the project and demonstrated how the quality of works can be enhanced through
systematic supervision.
6.02   The benefits from the technical assistance and training provided under the project have also been
substantial even though expenditure on these items was less than was forecast at appraisal. The provision of
some specialized equipment to HPDI and HSRI, such as that for computer aided highway design and laboratory
and road research cquipment, have paved the way for putting into practice in China state of the art highway
design methods and for improving information gathering for highway planning purposes.
6.03   The staff training program covered a broad spectrum of highway subsector topics, such as planning and
finance, survey, design, procurement, construction management, contract administration, construction
supervision and quality control and traffic safety, and was effective in enhanLing the technical skills of highway
staff at provincial level as well as in the various specialized units of MOC. In addition, two courses provided
training for the teaching staff of the Provincial Transportation Technical Schools in the provinces involved in the
project (Part III, Table 6C).
6.04   By contrast, the outcomne of the three studies which were carried out on Pavement Strengthening, Road
Congestion and Road Safety has been mixed. While the findings of the Pavement Strengthening study have been
incorporated into the development, by HSRI, of a Pavement Management System for Chinese conditions, no
substantive follow-up has been made on the findings and recommendations of the other two studies. The planned
pilot study on traffic congestion is being delayed because of lack of funding, and the main recommendation of the
Road Safety Study, to improve the accident reporting system as a first step towards the evolution of an effective
road accident reduction program, is not being acted upon because of the administrative changes which have
taken place with regard to the responsible authority for some aspects of road safety (Part lll, Table 6B).
6.C5   Development objectives were achieved beyond the extent expected at appraisal. After the opening up of
all-wveallher motorized vehicle access roads, communities that had previously relied on porters or rough tracks,
have recorded significant increases in their standards of living, the creation of new industries or the revitalizing of
existing ones and the exploitation of mineral deposits that were formerly uneconomic. The following examples
conveyed to the PCR mission by provincial and county officials well illustrate some of the social and economic
impacts.
(a)   in the influence area of one of the roads in Zhejiang province, between 1984-1990, agricultural
and related production increased by 30%-60% and per capita income rose from Y108 to Y1159 per
annum;
(b)   in Sichuan province, visitors to a tourist area served by a project road increased from an annual
figure of 50,000 to 250,000 and the income of the tourist area and nearby h-tels rose from Y60,000
to Y1,400,000 per annum;



-5.
(c)    in Guangxi province, one road contributed to the establishment of six new factories, the tripling
of production of a cement factory and the conversion of a bankrupt fertilizer plant into a
profitable producer of steel alloy additives with an increase in production value fer the area from
Y2.2 million to Y11.0 million per annum;
(d)    Yunnan province reported a fourteen-fold increase in annual tea production along one road and a
doubling of per capita income;
(e)    a road in Anhui province was rerouted along a valley to avoid winter snow problems in the
mountains, resulting in the local match factory recording a large increase in production from YO3.
million to Y4.2 million per year and the number of employees rose frora 85 to 325;
(f)    all areas reported marked increases in agricultural production because of ready access to mnarksts,
increased outside investment due to favorable communications, improved specialist advisor
services on agricultural and industrial matters anid a very enthusiastic response from area
residents who are now benefitting from a bus service, easier access to medical and recreational
facilities and wider employment opportunities.
While it is probable that broad economic and social factors created a favorable environment for achieving these
results, the improved road access to the areas concerned is being regarded as a decisive contributing element.
6.06   Almost without exception, the actual cost of road works exceeded the appraisal estimates for each of the
project roads as a result of increased material prices, underestimates of construction costs and the unforeseen
additional cost of physical variations necessitated in some instances by deficiencies in the original designs or
changed circumstances. For 60% of the project roads the traffic volume at the time of completion of the road was
higher than the appraisal forecast, and for 67% of them the post-construction economic rates of return (ERR) show
an increase over those forecast at appraisal. It appears that the higher than expected traffic volumes and
associated vehicle operating cost savings offset the effect of the cost increases and did not affect adversely the
ERRs. Except in one case (rural road #60) the ERRs remained above the normally accepted level of economic
viability for investment.
6.07   The project has also had a beneficial impact through:
(a)    providing employment opportunity to the local population, and, at the same time, enhancing the
technical skills in road construction related activities of those involved;
(b)    generating valuable social benefits to remote communities by providing easier access to health,
educational and recreational facilities;
(c)    promoting accelerated economic growth in the areas served by the roads;
(d)    increasing the professional competence and experience of road department staff at the different
levels of administration through training;
(e)    enabling the expansion of agricultural output, establishment of industrial facilities, development
of mineral deposits and growth of employment; and
(f)    accelerating the acceptance of more up-to-date construction methods and the improvement of
highway design facilities and practices;
6.08   The direct environmental impact of the project has been positive in that it has contributed to the reduction
of dust pollution and traffic accidents by better road surfaces and alignments and reducing the risk of local
flooding and accumulation of water through improved road-side drainage. In some respects there is a risk that
he environment could be affected adversely by some project roads in an indirect manner, where improved access
could facilitate mineral exploitation, the establishment of pollution-prone industries or an increase in forestry
operations. So far, however, no such effects have been identified.
7.     Project Sustainability
7.01   The civil works component of the project has already generated substantial tangible benefits, as reflected
in the levels of ERRs for the project roads. It is expected that the present trend of net benefit flow would be
sustained through the traffic generated by increased production and industrial activity in the influence areas ot
the project roads. One obvious risk to this would be the inadequate maintenance of the roads leading to a
reduction in vehicle operation cost savings. The relevant authorities are conscious of such risk and assurances
have been given to the Bank that sufficient funding would be secured for the adequate maintenance of the project



-6-
roads. Furthermore, the Bank's experience in China regarding road maintenance practices mitigates the risk of
the deterioration of the project roads through neglect.
7.02   The benefits accruing from the p.ovision of equipment should also be sustainable provided that units will
be fully utilized and, in the case of road construction and testing equipment, properly maintained, and in the case
of the computer equipment for highway and bridge design, upgraded to take full advantage of developing
technology.
7.03   The impact of staff training is expected to have a longer tern effect through the interaction of trainees
w ith other staff and in the case of the training of teachers of Provincial Transportation Technical Schools through
teacher-student interactions and revised/updated curriculums. The recommendations of the two studies dealing
respectively with road traffic congestion and road safety would require further assessments and more active
follow-up actions, a matter the Bank would take up with MOC in the near future in the framework of a highway
policy/strategy dialogue.
8.    Bark Perfo.m ce
8.01   From the outset it was realized that if this project was to succeed on the civil works side, there was a need
to introduce competitive bidding procedures, effective supervision and more up-to-date materials technology and
construction methods to the Chinese road construction industry. During preparation of the project the Bank
repeatedly stressed these points but there were some doubts among the Bank staff on the willingness of highway
authorities, particularly at the lower levels, to adapt to a new system. In this respect it appears that the Bank
underestimated the response of MOC and the PHBs (para 9.01). There is now a general recognition in MOC and
several provincial road administrations that both the competitive bidding process and independent supervision
are beneficial and there has been a trend to follow these practices not only on externally financed projects but also
on those which are internally financed. A form of local competitive bidding practice has been gaining ground
against direct force account operations, and several provincial transport departments have established a separate
unit, within their departmental structure, for construction supervision.
8.02   Because of the widely scattered nature of the civil works, Bank mnissions, during both project preparation
and implementation, were constrained by time and logistical difficulties to visiting but a portion of the project
road sites. This implies that a project extending over nine provinces might have been too ambitious for more
intensive Bank involvement. On the other hand, since this was the first involvement of the Bank in the highway
sector in China, taking a risk in this respect seems to have been compensated for by spreading the benefits
resulting from the Bank loan to a greater number of provinces, including the beneficial effects from the training
courses and from the disciplines instilled through the Bank's rigorous requirements on project selection,
evaluation, procurement and implementation. Furthermore, the Bank's initial involvement with a larger number
of provinces became an advantage during the preparation of subsequent provincial highway projects in six out of
the nine provinces which participated in this Highway Project because these provinces were already familiar with
most of the Bank's policies and procedures.
8.03   Among the lessons arising out of the project, some of which have been applied to subsequent projects,
are:
(a)    that it is important to carry out detailed engineer ng at an early stage in the project preparation
process, in order to have a better estimate of costs;
(b)   to weigh carefully the advantages and disadvantages of multi-provincial participation in a single
project for highways and roads, particularly in terms of the complexity created by the
invol- ement of a number of executing agencies and the geographical spread which could strain
resources during project preparation and implementation;
(c)   that investment in the construction and improvement of rural roaas has been shown to be highly
profitable and that the Bank should continue to encourage Borrowers to include a rural road
component in future projects wherever possible; and
(d)   to continue to include training and technical assistance components into future projects in order
to improve overall standards, with the p:-oviso that technical assistance should be carefully
selected and matched to the needs of the Borrower.



-7-
9.    Borrower Performance
).01 Considering that this project was the first exposure of MOC and the provincial and county highway
vureaus to the Bank's requirements and procedures, they performed well, except in the field of regular reporting.
Fhere were inevitably initial difficulties over procurement procedures and in the execution of contracts, but these
early problems were resolved and MOC and the provinces set in motion a supervision system that ensured
general compliance with the specifications and a training scheme that carried the message of modern methods
and technology to the county construction units involved. Some unfamiliar concepts were conveyed to those
involved at the different levels of project preparation and execution and these, in general, found acceptance.
9.02   Quality of work varied between provinces, reflecting the underlying experience of the respective county
personnel and the materials available in the area. Although surface dressing is widely used in China, results are
often poor, usually because of a badly prepared road base or the use of unsuitable materials, but quite a number
of the roads executed under the project demonstrated that this type of surfacing can be executed in China to a
high quality. Also, some of the structural concrete and masonry works have been exemplary.
.03   Among the lessons learnt by the Borrower arising out of the project are:
(a)   the usefulness of economic evaluation of roads to guide investment decisions;
(b)    advantages of the competitive bidding process, and well defined contract administration
procedures;
(c)   the value of supervision and enforcement of compliance with specifications; and
(d)   the profitability of investment in the construction and improvement of rural roads, which have
the effect of stimulating local economies.
10.   Project Relationship
10.01 A feature of the project was the good relationships that were built up during preparation and
implementation of the project. The Bank staff were always well received and their comments were respected and
acted upon by their Chinese colleagues, both at MOC and in the provinces, who were very receptive to
suggestions.
11.   Consulting Services. Contractors and Suppliers
11.01 Foreign consultants contributed to the successful implementation of the project. They assisted in the
eparation of bidding documents for the national roads and the subsequent supervision of them, and in the
rrying out of studies. Staff training was carried out largely through the involvement of foreign consultants and
ghway administration entities.
11.02 All contracts were carried out by Chinese construction units under ICB, LCB or force account.
Performances varied but all were acceptable, while some were very good.
11.03 A number of suppliers were involved in the procurement of equipment for road maintenance, testing and
research, survey and CADE. All performed satisfactorily.
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.01 The Loan and Credit Agreements were well prepared and served their purpose adequately. All the
covenants were appropriate.
12.02 The SAR was clearly written and provided a useful framework for all parties during project
implementation.
12.03 Information for the preparation of the PCR was provided by MOC and PHBs. Some additional
formation was also obtained during the PCR mission in June/July 1991, through extensive discussions with
OC personnel and representatives of Zhejiang, Sichuan, Guangxi, Yunnan and Anhui provinces.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLES' REPUBLIC OF CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1594-CHA/LOAN 2539-CHA)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWR'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    General
1.01   the construction  of the  first  highway project  in China
started in 1985 and completed in 1990. During the period of the
five years, all the items evaluated and determined by the World
Bank have been completed, such as civil works, equipment
procurement, training and consultant services and other technical
assistance. The two years' practice after the completion of the
project proves that it was the right decision to use the World Bank
funding for the highway development; and the project scope and
component were appropriate. The project are welcomed and supported
by the local government in the project provinces and the numerous
people concerned. The project achieved remarkable social and
economic results, especially in improving the local traffic
conditions and therefore stimulating the economic development- of
the poor areas. In addition, it promoted China's highway
engineering management, imported advanced equipment and trained a
large number of professional staff. This project indeed made a good
start in utilizing external financial resources, and furthering the
reforms and opening to the outside world.
1.02 In accordance with the requirements by the World Bank in its
"Project Completion Report", this report makes a retrospective
analysis of the key issues, the major findings, and lessons,
omitting the detailed accounts of the project implementation and
results. It tries to make an objective evaluation on the World Bank
's performance. This will greatly help better implement other
highway projects and further strengthen the cooperation between
China and the World Bank.
2.    Project Preparation
2.01 To ensure successful completion of this highway project, the
loan offices have been set up in the Ministry of Communications
(MOC) as well as in the provincial highway bureaus related to the
project responsible for the project preparation and coordination.
Special offices were also set ':p in the communications bureaus of
the concerned prefectures, municipalities or counties, in charge of
daily work.
2.02   With support and help from the State Planning Commission and
the Ministry of Finance, MOC worked out the general scope of this
highway project through wide survey , review and discussions with
the relevant provinces (prefectures) and the World Bank, and new



-9-
niethodologies of economic evaluation were used to appraise each
gub-project, which ensured a-good basis for the project to realize
the expected benefits.
3.    Project Management
3.01   In line with the   World Bank's requirements and the new
situation of reform and opening to the outside in China,
competitive system was introduced for this highway project.By
competitive bidding, the best contractor was selected to ensured
the project quality and cost control. Both international
competitive bidding (ICB) and local competitive bidding (LCB) were
introduced for the missing links on national highways included in
this highway project and the performance was satisfactory.
3.02 The supervision system based on the contract management was
widely adopted in the project implementation, which changed the
past practice of direct administrative intervention. This was
indeed an important reform measure in China's capital investment
supervision system. Each province involved in the highway project
set up special supervision offices responsible for the supervision
work. The office delegated engineer's representative to supervise
each sub- project's quality, progress, measurement and payment
simultaneously, foreign experts were also invited for site
consultation.
3.03 Given such a great number of sub-projects involved, each year
MOC organized a coordination meeting to resolve the issues
concerning  construction  quality,   progress,   supervision  and
financing, and held other meetings to exchange experience and
lessons. All of these meetings helped ensure the success of the
project implementation.
3.04   MOC also helped organize and coordinate staff  training,
equipment procurement and technical assistance with satisfactory
results.
4.    The World Bank's Performance
4.01    The  World  Bank  did  a  lot  of  work  during  project
implementation and acquired the experience with regard to
cooperation with the governments at different levels and relevant
agencies in China. The World Bank's involvement in this project
laid a foundation for future cooperation. we are in general
satisfied with the World Bank performance.
4.02 The World Bank made many careful investigations from the
project identification to appraisal, in addition, it accepted
suggestions from the Chinese agencies, and followed the World
Bank's procedures in determining the project scope and components,
aimed at improving China's highway network. It also made sound
economic analysis on each sub-project and put forward many valuable
suggestions, which were highly appreciated by their Chinese
counterparts.



10 -
4.03  During the project implementation, the World Bank sent six
missions consisting twelve person-times to China to supervise the
implementation of the project. They usually went to the project
sites to ensure the good work quality. They also helped coordinate
the staff training, and kept frequent contacts and exchanged views
with MOC and other government agencies and solved most problems in
time.
4.04   At  the stage of  the project completion,  the World Bank
missions carefully listened to the briefing by MOC and the related
provinces, made site visits on ten sub-projects in three provinces,
and held informal discussions with the local governments and the
residents along the highways, therefore, they have got experience
in person concerning the social and economic benefits achievec.
under the project.and acquiired a large amount of first-hand
information which was indispensable for it to work out the
objective and comprehensive completion report of the project.
4.05 by good cooperation with the World Bank staff. both before
and during the project implementation, we were impressed with the
scientific and thorough methodology and procedures used by the
World Bank, many of them are worth our learning and using. However,
our experience suggests that the period from the project
identification to appraisal was too long, and some procedures were
ioo complex,  inconsistent  with China's procedures  for  capital
investment,thus resulting in the delay of some sub-project
construction  commencement;   therefore,   we  suggest   that   in
consideration of China's specific conditions, and provided no
violation of the World Bank's guidelines, some procedures be
simplified, and the project preparation period be shortened, in
particular, for those small sub-projects such as rural roads, with
more confidence in the borrower's capability in implementation,
more work be delegated to the borrower in order to raise
efficiency.
5.    Major Findings and Lessons
5.01  Careful selection of  projects is crucial. Among the first
highway project, due to the lack of in-depth engineering
feasibility study on some individual sub-projects, some improper
choices was made, so the expected benefits were not fully achieved
after the completion of the sub-projects. Therefore, the future
sub-projects must be selected based on in-depth work and analysis
and under the framework of national highway development plan in
order to enhance the return of the investment.
5.02 Careful preparation of design documents is very importan'
Site investigations must be improved, with design documents fully
complying with specific situations. The depth of the design
documents shall satisfy the needs for competitive bidding. The
design variation should be reduced in order to minimize time delay.
5.03  More attention should be paid to prequalification and bid
evaluation. Our experience shows that when the prequalification was



- 11 -
not carefully done in the case of a ,ew sub-projects and the
cgontracts were not properly awarded, these contractors were unable
to fulfill  their contracts,   and eventually, gave up halfway,
resulting in progress delay and additional costs. Therefore, great
importance shall be attached to the technical capabilities,
financial viability, reputation, equipment and administration
capacity of the bidders. Bid evaluation shall be made on a fair and
reasonable basis, subcontractors shall not be allowed to be
introduced to the bidders and the negotiations after tendering
shall not be accepted.
5.04 As regard staff training, the competence of staff has direct
and great impact on quality and progress of projects. During
implementation  of  this  highway  project,   the  employer,   the
supervisor, and the contractor were unclear about and unfamiliar
with the way ot- project management based on the contract, as this
resulted in many contradictions with the traditional practice, slow
progress   and some quality accidents  eccfLed. Later on, as the
staff were better trained, the engineering quality was improved.
Therefore, our conclusion is that in accordance with the
requirements of the project implementation, the staff must be
trained in advance under appropriately arranged training courses,
so as to ensure the trainees fully competent to do their work.
5.05 Regarding data collection and disbursement schedule, each
sub-project entity shall submit its periodic report on project
progress on time so as to keep relevant departments well informed.
The employer and  the supervisor shall  help  the contractor  in
payment application and pay all the costs in time to ensure the
smooth implementation of the project.
5.06  During the implementation of the project, we learned a lot
about the Bank's method as well as procedures, the advanced
practice of engineering management in the world. All these are of
good help to us as we integrated our learning into  our work to
improve our own management, so that to try to improve China's
administration of engineering work and investment management to the
international level.



- 12 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLES' REPUBLIC OF CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1594-CHA/LOAN 2539-CHA)
PART III:   SUMKARY OF STATISTICAL DA
1.      Related World Bank Loans and/or IDA Credits
Loan/Credit                                                                 Year of
Title                              Purpose                              ADproval      Status           Comments
Cr. 1792-CHA/Ln. 2811-CqA       Construction of 142 km expressway, equip-     1987        In Progress      Closes 12/31/92
Second Highway Project -        ment procurement, studies, road data bank
(BEdjlng-Tanggu Expresy)
Cr. 1917-CHA/Ln. 2951-CHA       Construction of 340 km Chengdu-Chongqing      1988        In Progress      Coses 12/31/94
Third Highway Project -          highway and 105 km of rural roads,
(Sichuan Province)              improvement of road management, road
safety program
L n. 2952-CHA                   Construction of 67 km Sanyuan-Tongchuan       1988        In Progress      Closes 12/31/94
Fourth Highway Project -         highway, lmproving rural roads, equipment
(Shaanxi Province)               procurement, development of road planning,
pavement evaluation and data bank
Cr. 2025.CHA/Ln. 3073-CHA        Construction of 319 km Jlnan-Qingdao         1989        In Progress      Closes 6/30/95
Fifth Highway Project            highway, equipment procurement, devel-
(Shandong Province)             opment of road planning, maintenance
management, highway research, pave-
ment evaluation and traffic monitoring
Cr. 1984-CHA                     Construction of 113 km Nanchang-Jinjiang     1989        In Progress      Closes 12/31/95
Sixth Highway Project            highway and 1932 m Gun River bridge at
(iangxl Province)                Nanchang, equipment procurement, devel-
opment of pavement evaluation and data
bank
7?*2226-CHA/Ln. 3316-CHA        Provincial road network rehabilitation       1991         In Progress     Approved 4/91
- - Provincial Transport      programm rehabilitation of Nanjing-Shang-                                  Closes 6/30/96
rU)V"                          hai road and of Danyang section of Grand
Canal construction of ship-lock and bridge
at Nantang, development of pavement
evaluation, strengthening and mainten-
ance, planning and design of roads and
waterways, read data bank and CAD
Zbejiang Provincial Transport    Construction of 138 km Hangzhou-Ningbo       N/A         Under            Appraised 7/91
Project                         expressway, construction and improvement                  Preparation
of about 970 km of provincial and county roads,
equipment procurement for laboratories, envir-
onmental protection research, and road maint-
enance, and staff training.
Henan Provincial Highway         Construction of 120 km Zhengzhou-Luoyang     N/A         Under            Appraisal
Project                          highway, rehabilitation of 5 provindal                   Preparation      scheduled for
and 6 rural roads in northwest Henan , rehabil-                           2/92
Itation of up to 3000 km of provincial roads,
equipment procurement, institutional strength-
ening and training, and trucking study.
Guangdong Provincal              Construction of 145 km of the highway between  N/A       Under            Appraisal
Transport Project                Shenzhen and Shantou and an 80 km highway                Preparation      scheduled for
between Foshan and Kaiping, improvement of                                3/92
provincial and rural roads, equipment procuremnt,
training, and study of highway financing.
Source: Bank Staff



- 13 -
2.    Project Timetble
Date
Item                    Planned              Revised                  Actual
First Mention in Files           ---                                        03/07/83
Government's Application         -                    -                      N/A
Identification Mission           -                    -                      04/83
Project Brief                    -                    -                     06/07/84
Preparation Mission I            -                    -                      07/83
"  " II            -                    -                      05/84
"  " III           -                    -                      07/84
Appraisal Mission               10/84                 -                      11/84
Credit Negotiations           04/01/85                -                     04/01/85
Board Approval                05/14/85                --                    05/14/85
Credit Signature                 -                                          09/05/85
Credit Effectiveness          12/04/85                                      12/04/85
Credit Closing                06/30/91                                      06/30/91
Credit Completion             12/31/91                --                    12/31/91
Source: Bank Staff



- 14 -
3.     CreditfLoan DinbuTsemonts
A. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ millions)
IBRD FY   1986        1987      1988       1989       1990      1991       1992
Appraisal Estimate            9.0       34.0       64.0      69.0       71.0       72.6
Revised Estimate              9.0       34.0       64.0      63.6 [11    65.6      67.2      67.2
Actual
Credit       SDR            9.9       23.8      30.3       30.3 [21
US$ equiv    11.2       29.0       37.5      37.6       37.6       37.6       37.6 [3]
Loan         US$            0.0        0.0      10.3 (4]   20.2      29.6       29.6       29.6 (51
Total        US$           11.2       29.0      47.8       57.8       67.2      67.2       67.2
Actual as % of Rev. Estimate  124        85         75        91         102       100        100
Note: [1] US$13.0 million was cancelled from the Loan effective 03/28/89. The Loan total became US$29.6 million, but
the value of the Credit had risen to US$37.6 million.
[2] The Credit was fully disbursed by 4/28/89.
[31 At Appraisal the Credit was equivalent to US$30.L million.
[4] Loan disbursements started after the Credit had been fully commnitted.
[51 The final disbursement was made on 7/31/91 and the Loan balance became zero.
curce: Bank Staff
B. Disbursements by Categoru
(millions)
Allocation at Appraisal                  Actual Amount Disbursed
Category                            Credit        Loan                        Credit         Loan
(SDR)         (US$)                       (SDR)          (US$)
National Roads                          10.49         15.60                         9.09         18.79
Rural Roads                             12.10         16.00                        18.52          7.14
Equipment                                2.02          3.00                         1.03          2.89
Training and Consultants'
Services                               2.02          0.00                        0.11           0.77
nallocated                              3.67          8.00                        0.00          0.00
Fund                                     -                                          1.54 [11      0.02 [2]
Total [31                             30.30         42.60                       30.30          29.60 [4]
ote:  [1] This amount represents exchange rate losses resulting from the difference between the SDR equivalent of
the sum paid into the Special Account and that recovered.
[21 This sum represents exchange rate losses resulting from purchasing US$ for payment into the Special
Account from the Bank's currency pool.
[31 Totals may not add because of rounding.
[41 US$13.00 million cancelled effective 03/28/89.
urce: Bank Staff



- 15 -
4.     rzn.etImmiennlatia
A.  fto,OCt Su
Project Component                                         Appraisal Estimate           Actual or PCR Estimate
National Road Construction and Improvement
Paving completed (km)                                        225                           222.9
Earthworks comp!eted (cu m !000)                            8,400                          9,290
Bridges (No.)                                                91                              88
Culverts (No.)                                              5,589                           6,148
Construction Completed                                    06/30/88                         02/90 (1l
Rural Road Construction and Improvement
Paving completed (km)                                       1373                           1357.4
Earthworks completed (cu m '000)                           35,860                           9290
Bridb_ (No.)                                                 237                            261
Culverts (No.)                                              1291                            1352
Construction Completed                                    11/15/87                         02/90 (21
CADE and Other Computer and Laboratory Equipment for
HPDI and HSRI and Road Maintenance Equipment
Delivery Date                                             09/30/86                         02/89
Cost (US$ '000)                                             4,313                           3,430
Research Program
Completed                                                 12/31/87                        12/31/87
Training Program
Completed                                                 09/30/86                         08/91
Note: [11 Some supplementary works continuing; due to be completed in Dec 1992.
(21 Some supplementary works continuing; due to be completed in May 1992.
Source: MOC and Bank Staff
B. NationAl and Rual Roads
Road              Start Date            Completion Date
Province                               Length        Class
& Sec.No.     From-To                    (kn)       Standard      Forecast    Actual        Forecast    Actual
NATIONAL ROADS
Shandong
01      Huihe-Mapadian                21.00         2            3/86        6/86          6/88       11/88
02      Yancheng-Caotang              53.00         2            3/86        2/87          6/88       12/89
(Supplementary) [21 -          -           5/91        12/92           -
Shaanxi
03      Xian-Sanyuan                  34.00         1            3/86       12/86          6/88       12/89
Anhui
04      Laibang-Baojiahe              33.00         3            3/86       11/85          6/88        8/89
Fujian
06      Gaotien-Huashanjie            32.45         3            3/86       11/85          6/88        12/86
Sichuan
07      Longtal-Tangba      I1]       28.06         3            3/86       10/85          6/88        11/88
Yun-'an
08      Yangwu-Honglongchang          21.40         3            3/86       10/85          6/88        6/87
TOTAL (National Rds)         222.91



- 16 -
B. National and Rural Roads (Contd)
Road             Start Date            Completion Date
Province                              Length       Class
& Sec.No.     From-To                   (km)      Standard      Forecast    Actual       Forecast     Actual
RURALRQAQI
Zhejiang
01      Deqing-Zhouquan              36.00         3           11/85      12/84         11/87       5/88
-     "  (Supple ientary) [21            3            -         5/91          05/92
02      Tangqi-Deqing                17.34         3           11/85       6/86         11/87       4/89
03      Tuankou-Xiazhong             28.00         4           11/85       9/86         11/87       12/88
04      Majian-ZhuJi                  4.60         4           11/85      12/85         11/87       12/87
05      Fanqian-Hua-iang              8.82         3           11/85       1/86         11/87       10/88
06      Xiasheng-Nanxi               30.97         4           11/85       8/85         11/87       12/89
07      Yaozhuang-Hangling           10.00         4           11/85      12/85         11/87       3/87
08      Tanqiang-Shilong             49.40         3           11/85      10/86         11/87       12/89
09      Shanxi-Xiahong               40.80         4           11/85       7/84         11/87       12/87
10      Dajun-Shawan                 21.80         4           11/85       4/85         11/87       11/87
11     Jianggen-Kengdi               14.00         4           11/85       9/85         11/87       11/87
Total                       261.73
Anhui
12     Jiapeng-Jingzhou              30.00         4           11/85       9/85         11/87       11/88
13      Nanyuankou-Shendu            30.02         4           11/85       9/85         11/87       7/89
14      Huangbei-Xiaochuan           20.35         4           11/85       9/85         11/87       11/88
15      Tangpohe-Yuexi               60.10         3           11/85       9/85         11/87       12/89
16      Huanggang-Bailitun           48.55         4           11/85       9/85         11/87       9/89
Total                       189.02
Jliangxd
17      Linjia-Fanzhen               10.40         4           11/85       6/86         11/87       12/87
18      Wuning-Xinji                 25.31         3           11/85       1/86         11/87       2/90
19      Huangshageng-Xbda            12.67         4           11/85       9/85         11/87       9/88
20      Yushan-Tongfang              55.15         4           11/85      10/85         11/87       12/88
21      Yaoli-Mifengjie              10.57         4           11/85      10/85         11/87       11/88
22     Jiaokang-Lean                 38.94         4           11/85      10/85         11/87       10/88
23      Yutan-Lujiang                14.40         4           11/85      12/85         11/87       6/89
24      Xincheng4Qiusha              16.10         4           11/85       6/86         11/87       9/89
25      Wanhe-Potou                  11.90         4           11/85       5/86         11/87       8/88
26      Hanxia-Nanltn                 553          4           11/85       2/86         11/87       4/88
27     Juncun-Huangtang              23.71         4           11/85      10/85         11/87       7/88
28      Ruikeng-Shatianshui           5.40         4           11/85       6/86         11/87       9/88
29      Lintan-Cuting                14.15         4           11/85      11/85         11/87       9/88
30      Zhuangkuo-Huangling          29.92         4           11/85      10/S5         11/87       12/88
31      Longbu-Tianxin                9.00         4           11/85      12/85         11/87       12/88
Total                       283.15



- 17 -
B. National and Rural Roads (Contd)
Road             Start Date            Completion Date
Province                              Length       Class
& Sec.No.     From-To                   (kin)     Standard      Forecast    Actual       Forecast     Actual
Guangxi
32      Xindu-Huaiji                 31.53         3           11/85       9/86         11/87       10/87
33      Yunbiao-Nayang               19.83         3           11/85       8/86         11/87       5/88
34      Tiandong-Zurong              13.55         3           11/85      ;1/85         11/87       11/87
35      Dishui-Luoxiang              32.00         4           11/85       7/85         11/87       10/88
36      Baizhupu-Nioutangjie         39.21         4           11/85      12/85         11/87       1/89
37      Antai-Dongtou                13.00         4           11/85       1/86         11/87       1/88
38      Chuanshan-Xiangzhou          37.69         3           11/85      11/85         11/87       1/88
Total                       186.81
Sichuan
42      Linkou-Miaoxi                25.74         4           11/85      10/85         11/87       4/88
43      Lujiao-Gongtan               15.00         4           11/85      10/85         11/87       3/88
44      Yushan-Lianhe                19.25         4           11/85      10/85         11/87       4/C3
45      Xiangkou-Baima               23.43         4           11/85       4/86         1-l/87      10/88
46      Fucheng-Yuquan               16.00         4           11/85      10/85         11/87       4/88
47      Zhouhe-Wangyu                 5.56         4           11/85      10/85         11/87       12/87
48      Sijing-Yuquan                11.05         4           11/83      10/85         11/87       12/87
49      Kuile-Nanbaoshan             16.21         4           11/85      10/I5         11/87       5/88
S0      Minzhi-Minhe                 16.31         4           11/85      10/85         11/87       1/88
51      Wudu-Tuanshan                 9.70         4           11/85      10/85         11/87       5/88
52     Jinshan-Zhuyuan                6.16         4           11/85      10/85         11/87       5/88
53      Mingjing-Sanhekou            25.00         4           11/85      10/85         11/87       5/88
54      Yaojia-Jinshan               17.20         4           11/85      10/85         11/87       5/89
55      Fenshuiling-Sanhekou         15.13         4           11/85      10/85         11/87       5/89
56      Puguang-Fenshulling          10.27         4           11/85      10/85         11/87       5/89
57      Dayuan4Qifo                  25.78         4           11/85      10/85         11/87       4/88
58      Yanjing-Tianhuaban           11.00         4           11/85      10/85         11/87       4/88
Total                       268.79
Yunnan
59      Mongzi-Bada                  51.47         4           11/85      11/85         11/87       4/88
60      Kunluoxian-Nannuoshan        11.60         4           11/85      11/85         11/87       12/87
61     Jinghong-Monglun              69.85         4           11/85      11/86         11/87       3/89
62      Mengla-Yaoqu                 34.93         4           11/85      12/85         11/87       4/88
Total                       167.85
TOTAL (Rural Roads)        1,357.35
Note:  [1] Constrtcted to Class 2 standard except for width.
[21 Some necessary additional work was carried out on National Road #02 and Rural Road #01 within the scope of the project,
with Bank's concurrence.
Source: MOC, PHBs and Bank Staff.



- 18
5.     Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Cc sts (Y'OO0)
Appraisal Estimate                           Actual
Local      Foreign         Total        Local       Foreign         Total
National Roads -
Yancheng-Gaotang           16,657        16,657       33,314        36,940        21,050       57,990
Xia-Sanyuan                34,073        34,073       68,146       103,410        44,070      147,480
Other Roads                30,233        20,155       50,388        49,309        27,101       76,490
Rural Roads                 139,751        75,251      215,002       238,490       113,210      351,700
Equipment -
HPDI                          311         3,149        3,460         1,309         2,418        3,727
HSRI                           -          3,900        3,900            -          4,900        4,900
Training                         -          6,049        6,049    (       -          3,218        3,218
Consultant Services              -          1,778         1,778    I
Road Maintenance Eqpt            -          5,200        5,200            -          4,984        4,984
Total Base Costs[2]      221,026      166,212       387,238      429,538       220,721       650,259
Physical Contingencies       22,103        16,621       38,724            -             -            -[1]
Price Contingencies          14,156        10,265       24,421            -             -            -[11
Total[2]                257,284       193,098       450,382      429,538       220,721       650,259
Right-of-way                 20,269            -        20,269            -             -            -- [1]
Total Project Costs[2]  277,553       193,098       470,651      429,538       220,721       650,259
Note: [11 Costs are included in other items.
[21 Totals may not add due to rounding.
Source: MOC, PHBs and Bank Staff
B. Project Financing
Appraisal                                Actual
Government              Bank            Government               Bank
(Y m)               (US$ m)             (Yim)               (US$ m)
National Roads                    81.0                 26.0               189.7                 29.6
Rural Roads                      139.8                 28.0               238.5                32.1
Equipment for HPDI
and HSRI                        0.3                 2.5                 1.3                  2.3
Road Maintenance Eqpt               -                   2.5                 --                  1.3
Training and Consultant
Services                        -                   2.0                 --                   0.9
Right-of way, Contingencies
and Other Costs                74.4                11.6                  - [1]               - [1]
TOTAL                        295.5                72.6                429.5                67.2
Note: [11 Costs are included in other items.
Source: Bank Staff



- 19 -
6.  Prc Resu
A. EcononlJc fmyclA
I. Pro jeSumlQ y
Appraisal Estimate                        Actual
Detail                     Base          1 [1]       2 [21          '3l        Range         Average
Economic Rate of Return - %
Whole Project                       20          17           n/a         n/a             -                24
National Roads                   21          18            20          n/a            -                22
Rural Roads                      21          18           n/a          17             -                26
Provinces
Shaanxi                          18          -             -            -              -               24
Shandong                        17-19        -             -            -            11-21             13
Fujian                           37          -             -            -             -                28
Sichuan                         16-27        -             -            -            10-29             18
Yunnan                          14-19        -             -            -            3-33              24
Anhui                           18-34        -             -            -            23-40             28
Jiangxi                         17-27        -             -            -            16-47             32
Zhejiang                        15-31        -             -            -            23-33             29
Guangxi                         16-32        -             -            -            19-46             29
Notes:  [1] 20% increase in costs.
[21 10% reduction in traffic growth.
[31 2.5% slower increase in value added.
Source: MOC and PHBs
II. National and Rural Roads
Traffic (AADT)
Investment Cost
Road    (Y million)        1984  Opening Year    1991         ERR (%)
Province                            Length  class
& Sec.No.      From-To               (km) standard  Forecast Actual   Actual Forecast Actual Actual   Forecast Actual
NAllONAL ROADS
Shandong
01     Huihe.-Majiadian           21.00    2         9.39   11.45     726    1127   2285    n/a         14      21
02     Yancheng-Gaotang  [1]      53.00    2        33.31   57.94     1100   1340   1363    1363        11      11
Shaanxd
03     Xian-Sanyuan               34.00    1        80.30  147.38    3064   4758   5702    6204         18      24
Anhui
04     Laibang-Baojiahe           33.00    3         7.59   11.94     264    429    190    226          34      30
Fujian
06     Caotien-Huashanjie  [21    32.45    3        13.41   13.41     469    668    672    1211         37     n/a
Sichuan
07     Longtai-Tangba     ,3l     28.06    3        17.50   23.96     507    875    732    1858         36      26
Yunnan
08     Yangwu-Honglongchang       21.40    3         9.34   15.88     774    1137   1132    1273        19      38
TOTAL (National Rds)      222.91            170.84(41281.96                                              22



- 20 -
H. National and Rural Roads (Contd)
Traffic (AADT)
Investment Cost
Road    (Y million)              Opening Year    1991         ERR (%)
Province                            Length  class
& Sec.No.      From-To               (kxn) standard  Forecast Actual         Forecast  Actual Actual  Forecast Actual
RURALRQAD
Zhejiang
01     Deqing-Zhouquan   (1J      36.00    3         6.61   10.60          1044      1465   2093        18      30
02    Tangqi-Deqing               17.34    3         3.20    3.89           753      1086   1811        14      33
03    Tuankou-Xiazhong            28.00    4         3.11    4.57           294       396    345        16      25
04     Majian-Zhuji                4.60    4         0.61    0.62           336       642    1070       26      30
05     Fanqian-Huaqiang            8.82    3         1.37    2.36           1089     1106    1366       26      33
06     Xiasheng-Nanxi             30.97    4         3.23    5.20           282       429    715        17      26
07     Yaozhuang-Hangling         10.00    4         1.36    1.55           607       493    580        19      29
08    Tanqiang-Shilong            49.40    3         9.27   16.62           1720     1036    720        16      27
09     Shanxi-Xiahong             40.80    4         5.47    6.95           439       384    452        20      27
10    Dajun-Shawan                21.80    4         3.86    4.42           485       491     607       11      24
11    Jianggen-Kengdi             14.00    4         1.96    2.11           184       195    271        L7      23
Total                     261.73             40.05   58.89                                               28
Anhui
12    Jiapeng-Jingzhou            30.00    4         2.67    4.38           174       182               24      34
13    Nanyuankou-Shendu           30.02    4         3.06    4.41           194       254               19      32
14     Huangbei-Xiaochuan         20.35    4         1.72    2.45           215       224               36      40
15    Tangpohe-Yuexi              60.10    3         9.44   16.12           448       431               34      26
16    Huanggang-Bailitun          48.55    4         6.47    9.60           180       187               29      23
Total                     189.02             23.36   36.96                                               28
Jiangxi
17     Linjia-Fanzhen             10.40    4         1.25    1.73           41        90                41      47
18    Wuning-Xinji                25.31    3         5.46    8.27           127       150               25      27
19    Huangshagerig-Xixia         12.67    4         2.32    3.40           85        100               61      37
20    Yushan-Tongfang             55.15    4         4.45    6.98           160       110               25      28
21     Yaoli-Mifengjie            10.57    4         1.57    0.09           69        50                48      21
22    Jiaokang-Lean               38.94    4         5.33    8.10           82        116               45      43
23    Yutan-Lujiang               14.40    4         1.41    2.07           232       275               53      30
24    Xincheng-Qiusha             16.10    4         3.87    6.23           332       300               34      21
25     Wanhe-Potou                11.90    4         1.78    2.45           110       133               25      20
26     Hanxia-Nanhn                5-53    4         0.73    1.09           54        53                41      43
27    Juncun-Huangtang            23.71    4         3.39    4.82           135       244               30      39
28     Ruikeng-Shatianshui         5.40    4         0.72    1.02           65        200               65      42
29     Lintan-Guting              14.15    4         2.18    3.14           56        80                16      16
30     Zhuangkuo-Huangling        29.92    4         6.01    9.02           108       222               21      38
31     Longbu-Tianxin              9.00    4         1.37    103            60        43                27      33
Total                     283.15             41.84   60.44                                               32



- 21 -
H. National and Rural Roads (Contd)
Traffic (AADT)
Investment Cost
Road    (Y miUion)               Opening Year    1991         ERR (%)
Province                           Length  class
& Sec.No.      From-To              (km) standard  Forecast Actual          Forecast  Actual Actual  Forecast Actual
Guangxi
32     Xindu-Huaiji               3153    3         6.85   12.12           380       388    415        26      30
33     Yunbiao-Nayang             19.83    3        3.08    4.50           520       574    630        32      46
34    Tiandong-Zurong             1355    3         6.24    9.44           230       378    430        18      19
35     Dishui-Luoxiang    [5]     32.00    4        4.66    6.56           60        n/a    n/a        25     n/a
36     Baizhupu-Nioutangjie       39.21    4        4.00    6.08           250       231    266        34      29
37     Antai-Dongtou      [5]     13.00    4        2.49    3.69           30        n/a    n/a        30     n/a
38    Chuanshan-Xiangzhou         37.69    3        7.28   1050            450       365    486        20      29
Total                     186.81            34.60   52.89                                               29
Sichuan
42     Unkou-Miaoxi               25.74    4        4.24    6.89            45       50      70        26      29
43     Lujiao-Gongtan             15.00    4        1.50    2.35           48        54      72        21      22
44    Yushan-Lianhe               19.25    4        3.54    5.06           36        83      100       17      18
45     Xiangkou-Baima             23.43    4        6.91    7.93           187       140    170        27      19
46     Fucheng-Yuquan             16.00    4        4.40    6.66           56        48      109       13      10
47     Zhouhe-Wangyu               5.56    4        1.84   2Z71             66       56      64        17      16
48     Sijing-Yuquan              11.05    4        2.20    3.33           57        36      47        13      20
49     Kuile-Nanbaoshan           16.21    4        4.60    7.54           55        33      42        24      19
50     Minzhi-Minhe               16.31    4        3.78    5.76            80       78      90        14      14
51     Wudu-Tuanshan               9.70    4        4.27    5.63           210       230    258        22      19
52    Jinshan-Zhuyuan              6.16    4        2.46    3.87            58       72      100       16      23
53     Minging-Sanhekou           25.00    4        5.37    8.68           180       152    172        18      10
54     Yaojia-Jinshan             17.20    4        2.17    3.75            49       56      77        16      19
55     Fenshuiling-Sanhekou       15.13    4        1.68    2.69           39        38      47        18      18
56     Puguang-Fenshuiling        10.27    4        1.42    2.32            39       34      51        18      20
57     Dayuan-Qifo                25.78    4        5.67    9.09            7S       75      105       16      18
58     Yanjing-Tianhuaban         11.00    4        3.40    5.39            43       50      67        13      14
Total                     268.79            59.45   89.65                                               18
Yunnan
59     Mongzi-Bada                51.47    4        6.61   11.82           120       70                11      12
60     Kunluoxian-Nannuoshan      11.60    4        2.07    3.37           100       25                12      3
61    Jinghong-Monglun            69.85    4       12.04   28.61           160       440    440        16      33
62     Mengla-Yaoqu               34.93    4        5.84    9.07           140       124               14      19
Total                     167.85            26.56   52.87                                               24
TOTAL (Rural Roads)      1357.35           225.86  351.70                                               26
Notes: [1l Includes additional work.
[21 Evaluation of Ftnal ERR to be done when connecting roads are completed.
[31 Constructed to Class 2 standard except for width.
[4] Total of Y158.69 million in SAR is incorrect.
[51 Connecting roads not yet complete.
Source: MOC and PHBs



- 22 -
B. Studies
Purpose as Defined                             Impact of
Studies                      at Appraisal                Status            Study
Pavement Strengthening      Assess methodology for pavement  Completed   Results being incorporated
strength evaluation to identify  1987         into evaluation and design of
improvement and strengthening needs           new national roads
of existing paved national roads
Road Congestion            Identify possible solutions for improv-  Completed   Results are to be used in a
ing road capacity in congested areas    1987  pilot study on traffic congest-
near cities                                   ion, but this has been delayed
for lack of funding
Road Safety                 To study road safety aspects in one  Completed   Study carried out in Sichuan
province ard recommend measures to  1987      Province. Its main recommend-
be taken to improve safety                    ation to improve the accident
reporting system as a first
step towards an effective
accident reduction program
has not been implemented
because of changes in which
authorities are responsible
for the various aspects of road
safety
Source: MOC, Bank Staff
C. Overseas Training
Start        No. of        No. of    Man-months
Subject                      Location         Date          Days         Persons     (approx)
ce                           Australia        3/88            28            12          11
ing and Statistics           England          4/88            60            9           18
c Simulation                 Australia         5/88          .50            7           12
" Safety                     Australia         9/88           50            7           12
vey and Design                 England          3/88            60            9           18
ject Management                Germany          5/88            60           11           22
* and Construction            Germany           9/88           60            9            18
-rade and Pavement Construction   Germany       9/88           60            10           20
..truction Supervision         Denmark           9/86           40            29          39
mputer Aided Design         USA, Hong Kong       8/88         varied          12          9
ransport Schools Staff           Australia        3/91           60            14           28
ransport Schools Staff          Australia         6/91           45            9            15
Source: MOC



- 23 -
7.     Status of Coyenants
Deadline for
Covenant                    Subject                                              Compllance            Status
Credit Agreement
3.03           Enter into a project implementation agreement with the project                      Complied with
provinces, including items specified in Part R of Schedule 4
4.01(a)        Maintain records and accounts, in accordance with sound account-       -            Complied with
ing practices, to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the agencies responsible for carrying
out the Project
4.01(b)        In respect of the accounts:
(i) have thern, including the Special Account, audited each        Annually         Complied with,
flscal year by independent auditors using appropriate auditing    commencing       except first report
principles consistently applied                                      1986             was in 1987
(ii) furnish, not later than six months after the end of each fiscal  6/1/86 and    Comptied with
year, a certified copy of the audit report                         annually        except first report
thereafter       was by 6/1/87
(iii) furnish other information concerning the accounts as shall be   -             Complied with
from time to time requested
4.01(c)        For all expenditures made on the basis of statements of expenditure:
({) maintain separate records and accounts                                          Complied with
(iO) retain all records until one year after the Closing Date       6/30/92          Not yet due
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such        -             Complied with
records
(iv) include these separate accounts in the annual audit and submit   -             Complied with
a separate opinion by the auditors as to whether the proceeds of
the Credit have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided
Schedule 4
A.1            National and rural road segments to be included in the Project and     -            Complied with
the design standards for them shall be agreed between the Boorower
and the Association
A.2            The studies under the Project shall be carried out in accordance with  -            Complied with
termns of reference acceptable to the Association. The Borrower shall
provide copies of the studies to the Association upon completion in order
for them to exchange views on the findings
A.3            The training under the Project shall be carried out in accordance with a  -          Complied with
program agreed between the Borrower and the Association
A.4            Reports on Project progress shall be fumrished to the Association for each  -    Not well complied with
calendar year quarter, within 45 days of the end of each quarter, in a
form acceptable to the Association
Source Bank Staff



- 24 -
8. Use gf rDA Resources
A. Staff Inp2uts
Stage of                Number of
Project Cycle             Staff-weeks     Remarks
Through Appraisal                   104.6        Estimate - MIS divides up lending operation in different way
Appraisal through
Board Approval                       66.5        Estimate - MIS divides up lending operation in different way
Board Approval
through Effectiveness                25.6        Estimate - MIt divides up lending operation in different way
Supervision                          72.8        Includes preparation of PCR
TOTAL                          269.5
_urce: Bank Staff
B. Missions
Stage of    Month/  Number of  Days             Specialization     Performance    Types of
Project Cycle    Year   Persons  in Field         Represented Ill    Rating Status [21 Problems [31
Through Appraisal -
Identification  04/83        2        21             EGR/ECN              -
Preparation I   07/83        3        16          EGR/ECN/FNA              -
Preappraisal    05/84        4        19         EGR/ECNx2/CHF            -
Preparation II    07/84      1        28                TRS
Appraisal       11/84        8        21   EGRx3/ECNx2/TRS/PSP/LWR    -
ppraisal through
aard Approval -
Post-appraisal    03/85      4         9          EGRx2/ECN/PSP            -            -
Board Approval
thru Effectiveness -
Supervision 1   07/85        1        21                EGR                I
Supervision 11    08/85      6        19      EGRx2/ECN/CHF/CSPx2          1
ipervision -
Supervision m   06/86        2        28              EGRx2                2            M
Supervision IV    02/87      2        28              EGRx2                I
Supervision V   07/87        2        31              EGRx2                1
Supervision VI    10/88      2         8             EGR/TSP               1
Supervision VI   08/89       1        10                EGR                1
Supervision VI    11/89      3         3            EGRx2/TSP              1
Supervision (PCR) 06/91      1        28                EGR 
Notes: III EGR = Engineer, ECN . Economist, FNA = Financial Analyst, CHF = Division Chief, TSP = Transport
Spedialist, TRS = Training Specialist, CSP = Computer Specialist, PSP = Prourement Specialist, LWR = Lawyer
[21 1 . Problem-free or Minor Problems, 2 = Moderate Problems.
[31 T = Technical, M = Managment, F = Fmancial, 0 = Other.
Source:   Bank Staff



\                    ~~~~~~~~~R U S S I A                                                         5                                R U S S I A
KAZAKHSTAN~ 
~~~~~I  >  ~           ~           0NG0              
KYRGHYZSIAN
' 'a5- -              Sa-  .~-  D =  OEMOCREATIC
TX                                                                                                                                                                     ",a-a       PEOPLES                  JAPAN'\  tolo v  g   ,, .   MF EA
IA'KCSIAN                                                                                                                                                                      OFaKORE
x5:J;eFr5S;>i$i554<~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BMBt                                                            E tasa ha    i'
C HI N AC.
TRANSPORT SYSTEM
<  M .r6 >S
=    M6IOR TDWF15           2\    ! X b-   7~~~~~~~~~~~~ t n        i -/   rX    HON~~~~~G KONG, U L
Pl49WnC AI BOUndaRlCS I [ s s \ }ZS F FEZ ~~~~~~~~~~MACAO, FORT
I.Daerlealt  alar<al   Boundaries            l   -zf       E  O C T  IC
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ gl T,ackP-OL SL                                              J)a)



OO   118 '                      117                            118                             19 1 9
CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
SHANDONG   nan9                                                               ANHUI PROVINCE
PROJECT ROADS
nOOOKonlOUl '           3(0\                                                                                           aoa
sw N^L_  w.o .                    !    \        F~~~~~~~~~~e l\, \a  F.                                          N01.0001 10909
0
1'",000 ~    ~                 AF.ngR,n             \S. 0ndarv 009ds
4-I-  90' oa
D,O-C (Shn i bo.nda.-es
B. X-                                                                                          - P      a 0n;;
>    hOU  <  \  /):   \ Jchen                           f g  l                                     X J~~~IANGSU
H--A
A-   -         7                   -       A       -  #  X    C Tp TaflX
H ,ENAN                         l        V              J            ' (  f      '    )          fxlwang7 i         *
/%   1. --(g-                                               -       \        0        l         ong                                          ToChang0
\   Huoshan      t                ,           (              \   Wuhu        / (iGagPhflOoan  x< 
;   /   Tan9wn-nt   j                      anchang                 \\               /               / T~15010  LSnR,  7~ oa,nxg _
f \5 / g  Z-ngoang                                                            I   *
:UBEI                                                                              G Tan                                                  '
JIANGXI  TO J.09~ZHEJIAN
,.--g                  JIANGXI                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 25  59  75  10r
f / k . (                              _ .<KILOMETERS
11W  15W                           1r |1\                                                              19                            120p  9 ?    2
jJ>Suwng   s  91ian9/ )                                        /         l (/Jmozhout; +~~~~~~~~~~II



A.hw ,!EAl~2*   1,\   \osaRX   .t  \                                                        SUlEAn9                                   YUNNAN                PROVINCE
.i .J. G      >/  ~~~yX  J                   0          ! lJ C                     SI CHUAN- 
w  '   '~~~ C ,.,, Ganywoa  r_*   _   i   -_   /    \}                               s        / YO s)ban     .2         J").                                  PROJECI ROAOS                         22~~~~~~~~OlECTROAD
'   Y0n9gsh2ngX ,  A   / 1   8t   i  ;/     r       <                                             D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ollftht (Sh-n) lb--..r 
r 2E'   ~ ~ ~         |               Errurn rf  )   g  -               12       /  '   ) J    ,<                  truaw;J           G U IZHO U             O       50      roo      19D      ZDO            E9--~UIZHO  0  so  w  26-
\Y ..... Rtnog    \                     ans/ \                                           v                                                       I-ET-S9
MYANMAR                              ;              <              /J             f~     
<    ..   ,a - .    <               ; S                  X             .,.,            >                 ~~~~~~~GUANGXI
S.->                                     LAO,                     A      t (        ou  
^                                                                   -                  0~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~DEMOCRATICj)                          TNA           
W. co onc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EPU  enes                                                                                                                                                                z.BLIhesrCl  G_o rem#dfJ\\.I



HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                   . 
6    GUANGXI PROVINCE                                                                                                                        GUIZHOU                                                     /
PROJECT ROADS
-  Nat,onal roads                                                                                AOushan                                       g       g           Zl ;t-   __2XnEshen   NsutanEls;  )   ~         (          7                        HUNAN
--   Seconda- y  -oads 
4+   AtrSOSts IInt,tnat,anal)                                                                                            ,as7    */\ /jJ             zCoaatOt       /                    0    >X  'aint                                     ;;
DS,ttCt (Shoot Saundataris                                             110J       /Sna1                                                             >n                                       J    -    
-         -  t s...)lat   bCL dta ,.',                                                                 W                                                            )                                                         /-
tan              Ak                   a tttt **t,Vv*,, tiOe                                                                                                                                                                                               2
asd4'suni /                                                       <//1pg(\//                                                                                                    
YUNNAN
!ha ,,tp S t hat, 9  d7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /         G-n-
bhT3rCePwwidbbb-*prepsed VIET NAM C A \ > - t ' GUANGDONG
;by1     -I W,d  G       P,a tf
ttottsatty  cnd h a cr hr                                                       t        ongthou            < _        g          A       k               \               X   /      /        |  v   F           X                                                                                2
GnmpTw ,aada nwm,ca   vd                                                           \ tat /h                                                                                         |                        uI
r;t-Z;Oy ttdataJ tt ( , St Sa
-   ' _ ta,    S? s_w a
0      25      Sd       TS    1000ILMEE
ata..: .                                -21-                     KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t



\ JIANGSU
CHINA                                                                                              no ohanso                                                    \ SHANGHAI
HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                     -J
ZHEJIANG PROVINCE
PROJECT ROADS
- nond1o-   roadsJ
S----- Soa          d                                            ANHUI
*    Airport                                                                                                                  000  t angor
4.   Port.
Risers                                  !C,X1
Sistroct ISoon) boondatins /\\R _Cx 
_.Provooioio  soondarins/C~  o3  =  
-30-                      -  Gn~~~~~~~tteroationot Soondarizsso                                                                                                          t      -_    < /Aoen
10,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
-~~~~tnntzo>)    30uo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        30--
0         25                          b             O 75  T00  T     ofi N
KLtOWETERS
\!tos                    Qo Sianxlo  Ssl~< 
To Sna-g-oo
on Tim  Oorifd thas ro --
mlnfeot rhe Wqtd Book/                                                                      
Groa-nimad s  ror.nrooss                           JIANGXI                                                                                                                                                   W.
-28-                                                                                                       r                                                                                                                                                                                          28'
77.o  _,    :a                                                      FUJIAN                      Ysqoraon.n               J'no
segzA  ,  .'7 ^_ker4  ' *                                                                          A<e--   ShovonnSeSasnao
^,'-    ,.:,~ .  '1.s,,,._                                                                                                           /       x          ,       f 
'    - '      a' 2;    "'~    *'a'.._ TofL O
VV.AIA F ou".o,a NAsa o



r-~~~-' \ ~~QINGHAI                                               ',S  _,VHAANXI
1/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. T\-gw ...                                    6?-X;- 
v  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P7                                                                           O'O              . X-      ' g"    o -   .    ..
L *   k       '7 v   \  i                               S                                   4                            a..                   1       <   HUNAN |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.~K
o/MYANMAR&.s   ---oL  9             Mol,         9 M    >\         ()~~~~~~~~~G- I, / '     i      ul 
o 30 100 1dO 2D0 OZhongdan ' X XgGhang ' J ! \ ' ~" __- ' y G
30 -                                                                                S> /,'                                                                                        HUE  ToAn0n XRu
brA shsnss Cm-w3              kt  t---           )          t-S   \                                       -  Nallonal roads~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
,   26-  Fhlarmh P hos bKn pSpomd   t2At                            1        GUIZHOU                       +   Arrpons                                26--~~~~-
\   2hrsrs   mlomal wFs of [h Wodd6/mt                                                                RlserS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N o- 'J ., GmipT e dmommohop oa d tTo Kunmng / - -~~W.                                                                   Alstil(hn oldre
}   t G-ter   r   op^dmoDdonp mipS,pnflw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H.
o oF, | C=~~~~~~~~~~~--x;cyF nidEi{bPY  A  rw llbudbe
fr--\ b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



0                                  ~ ~~~~~~~ANHUI
N                                    I., '-5-w"-
A."~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
OGey&
Lea~~~~     '       K ~~FUJIlAN
CHINA
'X,noheog p-v~sao                            (HIGHWAY    PROJECT
6.1790.                      7-I                                         JIANGXI  PROVINCE
PROJECT ROADS
P,o, -ja   b..n.ne
o     25    50    75    IN0
8408005080  A2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8  t ~~~~KILOMETERS
-d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K
zf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
. ....  ~'                 GUANGDONG
814'               III'                       110'                     ill'-118I
I   I 1W   I



*-5'a5Oz    7              s            .                       s                     ..HEBEI  /
'7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
ac>Woy  , .- -q*i  /  1,,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
S   H.^,A,   _                                /      r   F     4     ,   :    :                                                                                     O ChansT   ha,,ajioaia
E _< <    ,   O,,,ahoai        OhlsUns       Z      s , _         ?                        hnu      hnzun    ~
-Io    T        o         ,.      Sh O/aoO,,sa                                                        (          os(Cheng                                           -10 '                                  .-      Re< JoOsm,.,Wsh
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
I  \  <  ;/ \ \/GCE zhaX / /zha~~q/I                                                                                                         KIOMuEnTE-  \20Ro S 
G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SADN PROVINCEwt A>+
-'a          ,=                 /                                                                                  OSoORSaLb   (     C'' )         X/ z
To Xl,a,s, HENAN     .iouoOang  SoToTssea                                            / ',   \                       x __- -5ahU0---\'   f-  -                                                            N/ D, lal,o _
Sv  I  i/  \   \  YaA- Duls                 j               a           /    J         _   *O,_m     y                                                        _  N tIqnal rP555Sscoss,o Tads
~~35    - ,oZ   9D!nOt8O  /   f4nxiamt   TengXIg   ><>xuznuanO   X YI\>-/ G    =                                                                   -  - Clstricl (shnn} boLndarlsm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--  C,t,aI~Sl'a)flond,,a
6~9s to5           ..... sb.e'a-     ,,asaisog   .- =.. \                                                                                                                                         TOO-/T/  |    fDZd  SD  75  ,R
'a.-,f ^wsoss'a G   /                      .,*>>                             //                   l                                                                                                 KILOMETERS



CHINA                                                                   o.,,
HIGHWAY PROJECT
SHAANXI PROVINCE                                                                                         o~a0
PROJECROADS00505
N.t.-l -d. ~ ~   ~          ~         ~         ~         ~        / 
-F-- I-yRlFa                                                                                                  -F., 0
4 A,spen le.
NEI MONGGOL ZIZHIQU                                                51"
b.-d F     .-FFJFSO'FF,e
7- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                        -X
5;'.>.      /         64ffi~~                  >L'F SOFO            SHANXI
NINGXIA  HUIZU  ZIZHIOU  C.ZOOF5                                                                                                OOO
('~~"~>)             '                        drag          00"g,a /~ d
S~~~GN'
Guy.. 0 ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oassa                                              1
,* ~~~~~~~,,,                                                                             0                                    r~~Oh,,-   
0                                                                      FIFaOY
0  -\                      '~~F,'~~S'~FF0                                            0       Lt   s  C
F -l                                                                       SF's.,,,       ' -~~X
00,FF                         nag -      1',
0~~~~~~.CF                                                   -  -HUBEI
>y90                                                            5FF     0
0    25   50   '5  100~~~~~~~~~FFF5                                               0FFFng'
K0-                                          /O0-                                              IFq
Fang S'                     010I



