Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rqeet No. 5408HA,
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
April 19, 1985
Transportation Division 1
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used by recipnts only in the perfermance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRNCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Renminbi (RMB)
US$1.00         =       Y (Yuan) 2.84 (as of March 1985)
US$0.35         =       Y 1.0
US$l milLion    =       Y 2.84 million
USS352,113      =       Y I million
FISCAL YEAAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                   =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (ki)              =   0.62 mile (mi)
1 square meter (sq m)         =   10.76 square feet (sq ft)
I square kilometer (km2)      =   0.4 square miles (sq mi)
I hectare (ha) = 0.01 k1m2    =   2.47 acres (ac) = 15 mu
I mu                          =   666.7 sq m = 0.0667 ha
L kilogram (kg)               -   2.2046 pounds (lbs)
I metric ton (m ton)          =   2,204 pounds (Lbs)
PRLINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AADT      -  Average Annual Daily Traffic
CADE      -  Compucer-Aided Design and Engineering
CHB       -  County Highway Bureau
CNTIC     -  China National Technical Import Corporation
CTC       -  Central Trucking Company
C-I       -  County Transport Department
ERR       -  Economic Rate of Return
GNP       -  Gross National Product
HB        -  Highway Bureau
HPDI      -  Highway Planning and Design Institute
ESRI      -  Highway Scientific Research Institute
ICB       -  International Competitive Bidding
LCB       -  Local Competitive Bidding
mOC       -  Ministry of Communications
MOE       - Ministry of Education
MOF       -  Ministry of Finance
PHB       -  Provincial Highway Bureau
PTC       -  Provincial Trucking Company
PTD       -  Provincial Transport Department
SAA       -  State Auditing Agency
VOC       -  Vehicle Operating Costs



FOR OFICUL USE ONLY
HIGHWAY PROJECT
TabLe of Contents
Page No.
Loan, Credit and Project Smmary ....................................                   v
I.  TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.  Economic Setting                                                         lI
B. Transport System .
C. Traffic Trends                          . . .1
D.  Investments ...........2................                        .2
E. Ports and Waterways.. .                                                   3
F. Railways...                                                               3
-. Highways    3............                                    .3
R.  Transport Policies and Objectives for the 1980s.                         4
II.  HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. Network ..4
B. Traffic Growth and Characteristics.                                       6
C. The Vehicle Fleet.                                                        6
D.  The Trucking Industry ........... . .............. o.......              7
E.  Vehicle Operating Costs, Trucking Tariffs and Profit                     8
F. Highway Administration.                                                   8
C. Planning, Budgeting and Financing.                                        9
H. Engineering    ........10
I.  Construction and  Mtan te nance  ...I... Io ........ ...    . 
J. Road Safety .11
K. Staff Training .12
L.  Highway Development: Policy and Objectives
for the 1980s  ...12
III.  THE PROJECT
A. Project Formulation and Preparation .                   .                13
B. Project Objectives and Scope    ..13
C. Detailed Featuresar....  ....   14
D.  Cost Estmts .....i...   ...a...0 e0......                               17
E. Financing                     ...19
F. Implementation                        ...20
G. Procurement                ....             ..22
H. Disbursements   ...23
This report is based on findings of a Bank Group mission which visited China in
October/November 1984, comprising B. P. Kennedy (mission Leader), G. Mahoney,
R. J. N. Leonard (Engineers), C. Ohri (Procurement Specialist), J. Yenny,
S. Teravaninthorn (Economists) and G. Morra (Training Specialist). The report
was written by B.P. Kennedy, R. J. N. Leonard, J. Yenny and S. Teravaninthorn
and edited by Ms. P. Brereton.
Tis docmet has a resticted distnbution and may be used by reopients only in the peaformance of
their oflfi  duie Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed witbout World Bank authorization.



Page No.
I. Auditing, Reporting and Monitoring ......................       24
- J.  Environmental Effects .................................       24
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.  General        .................................................  25
B.  Construction and Improvement of National Roads ..........      26
C.  Construction and Improvement of Rural Roads .............      26
D. Overall Evaluation and Risks ............................       27
V.  AG REEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .......... ........ .....   27
TABLES
1.1  Annual Crowth and Modal Split in Freight Traffic, 1949-1983
1.2  Annual Growth and Modal Split in Passenger Traffic, 1949-1983
2.1  Highway Design Standards in China
2.2  Road Pavement Standards
2.3  International Comparison of Vehicle Production in 1980
2.4  Motor Vehicles Manufactured in and Imported into China, 1980-1984
2.5  Total Freight Transport Handled bv State and Social Trucks
2.6  CTC's Vehicle Operating Cost in 1983
2.7  Composition of Vehicle Operating Cost:  A Comparison
3.1 National Road Sections to be Improved or Newly Built
3.2  Rural Roads to be Improved or NewLy Built
3.3  Training Program
3.4  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
ANNEXES
1.  HOC Highway Institutes
2.   Significance of Proposed National Road Investments
3.   Provincial Profiles
4.   Project Implementation Schedule
5.   Project Monitoring Indices
6.   Economic Evaluation of the Xian-Sanyuan National Road
7.   Economic Evaluation of the Fucheng-Yuquan Rural Road
8.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File



- iii -
CHARTS
1.   Organization of the Ministry of Communications (IBRD 26870)
2.   Organization of the Highway Bureau of the Ministry of Communications
(IBRD 26871)
3.   The Relationship between Central and Provincial Transport Departments
(IBRD 26423)
4.   Organization of the Education and Science and Technology Bureaus
of the Ministry of Conimunications (IBRD 26869)
MAPS
China Transport System - IBRD 18708
Anhiui Province - IBRD 18345
Yunnan Province -  3RD 18347
Guangxi Province - IBRD 18349R
Zheijiang Province - IBRD 18350
Sichuan Province - IBRD 18351
Jiangxi Province - IBRD 18352
Shandong Province - IBRD 18353
Shaanxi Province - IBRD 18554



- L -
CIAINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan, Credit and Projecc Summarr
Borrower:                People's Republic of China
Amount:                  US$72.6 million equivalenc comprising USS42.6 million
equivaient IBRD and SDR 30.3 million (USS30 million
equivalent) IDA.
Terms:                   Loan:  20 years including 5 years of grace; standard
variable interest rate.
Credit: Standard.
Project Description:    As the Bank Group's first involvement in China's high-
way subsector, the proposed project would address a
number of needs by assisting Government in: (a)
improving the quality of future construction works by
modernizing highway design, and by updating and
improving construction and material specifications;
(b) increasing the cost-effectiveness of highway
investments, by improving economic evaluation tech-
niques for the evaluation and selection of road
investments, and by supporting Government's new policy
of moving to competitive bidding for public works;
Cc) supporting a highway research program, with par-
ticular emphasis on improving and strengthening the
existing paved national road network, improving road
capacity in congested areas and improving road safety;
and (d) strengthening the capabilities of staff
working in the highway subsector by carrying out a
training program. In addition, the project would
support the Government's program for completing the
national road network by constructing or improving
about 230 km out of a total of 4,000 km of missing
links in the network. It would also support a
national program of improving economic activity in
rural areas through the construction or improvement of
about 1,400 km of rural roads. There is some risk of
delays in project implementation since this is the
first time that competitive bidding will be used for
highway construction in China, and these delays could
increase costs. This risk would be reduced by appro-
priate supervision in the early project stages.



Project Costs:
Local          Foreign         Total
(USs million)-
Road construction                    77.7            51.5          129.2
Design and research improvement       0.1             2.5            2.6
Road maintenance improvement            -              1.8           1.8
Training program                                       2.1           2.1
Consultant services                     -              0.6           0.6
Base Cost                      77.8             58.5          136.3
Physical Contingencies                7.8             5.9           13.7
Price Contingencies                  11.2              8.2          19.4
Total Project Cost /a          96.8             72.6          169.4
Right-of-way cost                     7.2               -            7.2
Total Financing Required            104.0             72.6         176.6
Financing Plan:  IBRD/IDA               -            72.6           72.6
Goverrment        104.0               -          104.0
Total Financing        104.0             72.6         176.6
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank Group FY      1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
-       ----- (USs million)
Annual                 9      25       30       5        2      1.6
Cumulative             9      34       64      69      71      72.6
Economic Rate of Return: 20%
/a Including taxes and duties of about US$16.8 million equivalent.



CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
1.01      Like other centrally planned economies, China's economy is very
"transport intensive."  In the same land area, U.S. freight traffic is only
four and a half times the freight traffic of China with a GNP nine cimes as
large. This intensity of transport is explained partly by: (a) China's
economic structure, with the service sector accounting for a very low share of
GNP; (b) the historical emphasis on heavy industry, requiring the movement of
ores, steel, and other bulk products; and (c) the high level of energy con-
sumption per unit of output in China's industry (energy use per unit of wDP is
two and a half times that of other low-income developing countries).
B. Transport System
1.02      China's transport system is heavily concentrated along che eastern
seaboard. It comprises about 52,000 route-km of railways, 915,000 km of
roads, 109,000 km of rivers navigable by barges of 100 tons or Larger, 15
major national ports and a large number of smaller provincial and municipal
ports, and 48 major airports. The main transport corridors are Harbin-Dalian
and Beijing-Shenyang in the northeast; Beijing-Tianjin-Shanghai along the east
coast; Beijing-Wuhan-Guangzhou linking industrial areas in the northeast and
southeast; and Shanghai-Wuhan-Chengdu which cuts across the east-west indus-
trial areas. The first four corridors are served mainly by rail, while the
last is served mainly by the Changjiang (the Yangtze River). The physical
characteristics of the country have also encouraged coastal shipping services.
Transport facilities are still very poor in the outlying regions of the north-
west and the southwest, where mountainous topography makes investment costs
relatively high.
C. Traffic Trends
1.03      Domestic freight traffic in 1983 reached 1,007 billion ton-km,
almost a fourteen-fold increase since 1952, or an average annual growth rate
of almost 9X, systematically higher than the growth of domestic product. The
elasticity of freight growth to overall economic growth is, however, less than
that experienced by some other low-income countries and reflects the policy
emphasis given to regional self-sufficiency rather than inter-regional trade.
1.04      Passenger traffic reached 310 billion passenger-km in 1983, a
12.5-fold increase since 1952 and an average annual growth rate above 8Z.
Since 1978, growth has averaged 12% per annum, well above twice the overall
rate of economic growth. It is likely that this growth would have been more
rapid if it had not been constrained by the limited capacity, particularly of



- 2 -
the railways, to offer more passenger services. Despite the rapid growth of
passenger traffic in recent years, the mobility of peopie in China is still
very low, reaching 270 passenger-km per capita in 1982 versus 785 in India,
where GNP per capita is lower chan in China. Assuming an income elasticity of
1.5-1.7, well below the elasticities observed in India and BraziL, passenger
traffic in China would reach about 1,500 billion passenger-km per year by the
turn of the century, about five times current levels.
1.05      The amount of traffic carried by the various transport modes is
becoming somewhat more balanced than in the past. Railways, which have his-
torically handled the greatest share of freight and passenger traffic and
which have shown substantial growth in recent years, are now beginning to show
a decreased share in relative terms. Highway craffic has increased steadily,
particularly with the recent development of rural areas which generated a
vastly increased demand for short distance passenger travel. The share of
railways in freight and passenger traffic measured in ton-km and vassenger-km
decreased from 79% and 73%, respectively, in 1960 co 70Z and 59% in 1982. The
traffic lost by the railways has apparently gone to highways whose share
increased from 2% to 11% for freight traffic and 18% to 36% for passenger
traffic over the same period (Tables 1.1 and 1.2). However, the predominance
of railways is expected to continue for quite some time, especially for
freight traffic.
D. investments
1.06      Over the period 1949-79, some Y 110 billion, or 17% of all new
investment coming under the heading "State Capital Construction," went to
transport. In comparison to other countries, the annual investment in China's
transport sector has been relatively low. At about 1.lZ of GNP, it is compar-
able to the level in India, but is less than the USSR's 1.41, 2Z in Korea, and
3.3% in Brazil. China's low investment in the sector has made transport a
bottleneck to economic development. Coal production, for example, has been
curtailed to match available transport, rural areas are short of transport for
both agriculture and local enterprises, and ports lack adequate handling
tacilities for bulk fertilizer and grain.
1.07      In the past, the railways received nearly 70% of all investment in
transport and communications, but starting in the late 1970s the share of
investment in railways declined to about 50%, implying a redistribution of
investment to other transport facilities. However, the highways subsector has
not yet benefitted from this redistribution. Investment on highways has
steadily decreased from 25% during 1963-65 to only 12% by the end of 1975%;
since then, it has stabilized at around 15% of total transport investment.
1.08      In the coming decades, much larger investment will be needed in
transport if bottlenecks to economic development are to be avoided. The pro-
posed project would assist in this regard by supporting a major development
program of national and rural road construction in order to facilitate both
industrial and agricultural growth.



- 3 -
E. Ports and Waterways
1.09      Port traffic increased rapidly in the period 1976-80 at an annual
average growth rate of 11.3%, reflecting the economic opening of China to
foreign trade. Domestic coastal shipping and inland water transport also
increased substantially.  As a result, ports became congested despite commend-
able efforts to achieve higher productivity. A major effort to modernize
ports started in the early 1970s and continues, with particular emphasis on
container and bulk terminals, the latter mainly for coal. Mhe Bank Group's
first involvement in the China transport sector was the Three Ports Project
(Loan 2207-CHA) in 1982 which includes a coal berth at Huangpu and container
berths at Huangpu, Shanghai and Tianjin. A second ports project is being
prepared.
F. Railways
1.10      China's railway system more than doubled in size between 1949 and
1983, when it totalled some 52,000 route-km, of which about 9,182 km were
double or multiple tracked and some 2,650 km were electrified. Further double
tracking and electrification are in progress. Some 75% of all locomotives are
still steam-powered. Rail freight traffic has grown from about 39.4 bil-
lion ton-km in 1950 to 665 billion ton-km in 1983, at an average rate of 9%
p.a. Since 1978, freight traffic has grown less rapidly, averaging about 4.5%
p.a.  Ten commodities (coal, timber, iron and steel products, construction
materials, petroleum, non-metallic ores, grain, metallic ores, fertilizer and
cement, in that order) account for about 74% of the ton-km. Passenger traffic
by rail has grown from about 21.2 billion pasenger-km in 1950 to 178.0 billion
passenger-km in 1983, at an average annual rate of 6.7%. Passenger traffic
has exploded since 1978, increasing 62% in five years and putting heavy demand
on the existing equipment and line capacity.
1.11      Railway operations are very efficient and show a high level of track
and equipment utilization. Traffic density is the second highest in the world
after the USSR, averaging 11.9 million net ton-km per route-km for freight and
3.1 million passenger-km per route-km for passengers. Freight car turnaround
time is extremely low (at three days) and further savings will not likely be
achieved. The Bank Group's first involvement in China's railway sector was
the China Railway I Project (Loan 2394-CHA) in 1984 which financed priority
infrastructure investments on two lines as well as equipment, technical assis-
tance and training for improving electric locomotive production. A second
railway project has also been prepared.
C. Highways
1.12      The development of the highway network has been relatively neglected
compared to the other transport modes. The existing paved network is limited
and the quality of road pavements is poor. With motor traffic on the national
highways growing at a very high overall annual average rate of 15% since 1978,
and in line with che emphasis of Government's new economic policy on the
development of light industry and agriculture, and the intention to shift
short-distance traffic (less than 200 miles) from the railways to the roads,
the Government, in its Seventh Five-Year Development Plan (1986-90), proposes



- 4 -
to increase investment to expand and improve the highway network. The highway
subsector is described in detail in Chapter II.
H. Transport Polices and Objectives for the 1980s
1.13      The transport development policy in the 1980s, unLike that of the
past 30 years, has broadened to include not only the expansion of individual
modes but also the establishment of links between each mode, the incorporation
of new technology, and the improvement of institutions. With these objectives
in mind, policy discussion has centered on: (a) capacity constraints for both
freight and passenger traffic; (b) the appropriate economic role of the
various modes and, in particular, the modal allocation of short-distance
traffic; (c) management of the transport system, including policy, planning,
coordination, and pricing; (d) the choice of technoLogies for both infrastruc-
ture and vehicles; (e) energy conservacion; and (f) the training and develop-
ment of staff to handle the above matters.
II. HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. Network
2.01      Although China's road network is now the sixth largest in the world,
it is still relatively underdeveloped. In 1983, the network comprised about
915,000 km, of which only 173,000 km or about 19Z had asphaltic concrete or
bituminous coated macadam pavements. Most of these pavements are of poor
quality, have exceeded their design life, and are deteriorating rapidly with
the increased traffic. As a result, maintenance is becoming increasingly more
difficult and costly. Under the project, assistance would be given to carry
out a pavement evaluation analysis in order to identify strengthening, rehabi-
litation and maintenance programs for the existing paved road network.
Current road density of about 94 km per 1,000 sq km or 9.1 km per 10,000 popu-
lation is also low, even though the network in 1983 was already 11 times
larger than that in 1949. A comparison of China's road density with that of
other countries is shown below:
Road Network Density
km/10,000 population           km/1,000 sq km
China (1981)                9.1                         93.49
USSR (1979)                54.1                         63.71
Korea (1980)               12.4                        476.77
India (1979)               24.3                        488.31
Japan (1980)               95.2                       2947.95
Brazil (1980)             118.2                        163.85
USA (1979)                280.2                        673.24



- 5 -
2.02      For purposes of design and cecbnical specifications, the highway
network is classified as Expressway, Class 1, 2, 3 and 4. The various classes
are designed for the following average annual daily traffic (AADT) capacities;
expressway for more than 25,000 vehicles; Class 1 for more than 5,000 vehicles;
Class 2 for 2,000-5,000 vehicles; Class 3 for less than 2,000 vehicles; Class 4
roads, which mainly serve agriculture, for less than 200 vehicles. Table 2.1
shows the road-bed and pavement widths for the various classes of road. A road
pavement specification classes paved roads into highest, high, medium or Low
quality (Table 2.2). No expressways have yet been built and only some 2% of
the total road length has been built co Class I and 2 standards; the network is
thus generally of Low standard.
2.03      For administrative purposes, roads are classified as trunk, councy,
rural (communal), and special purpose. Trunk roads, which are the responsi-
bility of the Provincial Transport Departments (PTDs), consist of national and
provincial roads. National roads serve as links between provincial capital
cities, other imporcant cities, autonomous regions, ports and major transport
terminals. They have been so designated regardless of their condition. Pro-
vincial roads serve the provinces and cities, whose local governments are
responsible for design and technical specifications. Most provincial roads
have been built to standarc's lower than Class 2. County roads, the responsi-
bility of the County Transport Departments (CTDs), are usually lower than
Class 3. Most commune roads which are built and maintained by local
authorities cannot meet even Class 4 road standards, and some road sections
are impassable after severe rain. The special purpose roads, built
exclusively for mining, forestry or other purposes, are constructed and main-
tained by the main user. The length of road in each category is given below.
Road Network by Administrative Category
Road                          Length          X of total
classification                       (km)             network
Trunk
National roads                    108,000              12
Provincial roads                  146,300              16
County                              322,700              35
Commune                             295,500              32
Special purpose                      42,500               5
Total                          915,000             100
2.04      The administrative classification of the network has become more
systematic since 1978, indicating fundamental improvement in planning and
management. One of the results has been the identification of some 4,000 km
of national road sections which are either missing entirely or substandard and
not currently motorable, and as such are considered to be missing road links.



The upgrading of the nationai -oad network, including the construction of
missing road links, is among the top priorities of the Ministry of
Commznications' v  OC) road devejopment plan. which rhe 3ank Group will support
under the oroposed projecc by helping to upgrade or construct about 230 km of
the identified missing national road links.
B. Traffic Growth and Characterist.cs
2.05      Although roads have carried a relatively small share of total
traffic in China, the recent growth of motor traffic on the trunk highways has
been very rapid. This has led to many problems related to the capacity and
structural strength of many roads which were not designed for such traffic.
Assuming current annual growth rates of 15Z for motor craffic and 14.5Z for
the vehicle fleet, traffic volume will double in less than five years. In the
vicinity of some major cities, the annual growth of traffic is now as high as
18-19Z and congestion is already a serious problem.
2.06      Traffic growth and congestion have resulted from several factors
including the country's rapid economic growth and a general shift of short-
haul transport from rail to road. Congestion, however, is mainlv due to mixed
traffic, with slow-mtoving vehicles Like bicycles, tractors, and animal-drawn
vehicles impeding traffic flows. Multipurpose tractors, in particular, cause
congestion on trunk roads and will not be easily diverted to other roads in
the short term. Assuming that the present traffic composition continues. many
segments of the existing trunk road network will be saturated within the next
five years. M0C is aware of this problem and will study it with assistance
under the proposed project. The study would identify possible solutions such
as road widening to separate various types of traffic; the addition of
parallel restricted-access links in high-volume corridors; construction of
bypasses around cities, towns and villages; and substitution of more small
(1/2 to 1 ton) pickup trucks for slow-moving vehicles; or a combination of all
these measures.  Furthermore, future highway planning should seek to relieve
traffic congestion.
2.0?      Although the Government is aware of existing constraints, its
approach to the traffic problem should be broadened to respond more fully to
the needs at hand. In 1978, MOC introduced a thorough traffic counting system
for some national and provincial roads. With 120 permanent counting stations
on the national network and about 6,000 check points on the provincial road
network, the count is on a 24-hour basis, three times a month, year-round and
includes non-motorized vehicles. However, more origin-destination surveys are
needed in order to obtain more accurate information for highway planning and
design.
C. The Vehicle Fleet
2.08      Most motor vehicles in China are domestically produced.  Several
features of this production are striking. First, unlike other developing
countries, trucks outnumber cars by about nine to one. The yearly production
of passenger cars is only one car per.. 84,000 population. This is about 114
that of India, 1/28 that of Peru, and 1/135 that of Chile (Table 2.3).
Second, there are almost no light trucks (less than 2 ton capacity) and few



large crucks more than 8 ton capacity (Table 2.4).  Finally, -zehicles have
outmoded designs and verv low fuel efficiency, wich most trucks being gasoline
rather than diesel powered.
2.09      Vehicle manufacturing efficiency is Low due to the small production
scale of the large number of manufacturing plants which exist.  Some 70 motor
vehicle plants are reporced co be in operation, only a Eew of whnch can pro-
duce between 15,000-70,000 vehicles per year and some serve only local demand
and pr4duce less than 20 vehicles a year. Recognizing the inefficiencv of
these operations, the Government is trying to rationalize the industry by
integrating smaller factories into larger companias with each ractory special-
izing in producing certain parts and components for a final assembly plant.
The new integrated plants are expected to avoid duplication, increase special-
ization, and make full use of production equipment so as to gain economies of
scale.
2.10      In 1983 China produced some 140,000 trucks and was ranked tenth
largest among civilian truck producers worldwide, yet this is still not
sufficient for the huge and growing domestic demand. The entire stock of
trucks is about 1.6 million units. Assuming a very optimistic 10-year
depreciation period per vehicle, the present production would be bareLy enough
to repLace those depreciated. With a 9Z arn.al increase in freight transport,
a shortage of vehicles is inevitable, and tne need 'or trucks with capacities
of over 8 tons and less than 2 tons is expected to be particularly acute.
China has been regularly importing trucks but the numbers are small and
fluctuating: 21,000 in 1981 and about 8,000 in 1982 and 1983. In the long
run, there will also be a problem in planning for che complementary
development of the vehicle fleet and the road network. The Bank Group has
responded to this situation by initiating discussions on the need for a
comprehensive review of the road transport industry in China which would
'-xamine industry problems and recommend solutions.
D. The Trucking Industry
2.11      Competition between public trucks operated by MOC and social
trucks 1- is becoming increasingly evident. The share of social trucks in the
total fleet grew very rapidly from 30X in 1949 to 86Z in 1979. However, HOC
trucks still handle more than 25Z of freight traffic (Table 2.5). MOC's
trucking industry comprises the Central rlucking Company (CTC) and the
Provincial Trucking Companies (PTCs). CTC specializes in modern, large-volume
transport, including a container trucking service. It handles longer distance
inter-provincial traffic, while the PTCs handle the shorter hauls and inter-
modal transfers.
2.12      Both the MOC and social trucks share problems of misallocation and
mismanagement of truck and fuel resources which result in a simultaneous
1/   The term "social trucks" is loosely equivalent to "own account trucks.-'
Social trucks are owned by factories, communes or any cooperative
organization.



- 3-
shortage of some trucks whiLe a large number of trucks are not fully used.
This is -R more serious oroblem for the social trucks. iudging from their very
low average Load factor of about 35Z compared to the 65Z average load factor
for XOC trucks.  Aside from empty back hauls, in some communes social trucks
are in garages one third of the year because :he communes either Lack fuel to
run ctem, or aave more trucks than necessary. Mhe review of che road trans-
port industry (para. 2.10) would also examine -wavs to improve operational
efficiency, including the potentiaL for using intermodal and road freight
terminals.
E.  Vehicle Operating Costs,  rucking Tariffs and Profit
2.13      TvpicaL -;ehicie operating costs (VOWCs) for trucks are show-n .n
Table 2.6.  .-or the most commonlv used 4-tcn truck, coszs range from 0.10 to
0.17 Yuan (US 3.5 zo 6 cents) per ton-km, derer.ding ia the design standards of
the road.  FueL (mostly gasoline) and vehicle maintenance account for over 40Z
of total VOCs (Table 2.7).  Gasoline which is rationed by coupons has been
priced for manv years at an average of Y 800 per ton (USS282). The price
varies regionally to reflect differences in transport and distribution costs;
and has been well above world market price until the recent major fluctuations
in exchange rates. Gasoline sold above the cGupon quota is around Yuan 1,000
per ton (US$352), substantially above the FOB Singapore price of US$303 per
ton.
2.14      Each year, the Trucking Division of MOC issues a set of planned
vehicle operating cost targets and official tariff rates which serve as guide-
lines for trucking companies. The official tariff rates ranging from 0.18 to
0.20 Yuan per ton-km are about 17Z higher than the planned VOC target and in
theory would ensure a 17% profit to trucking companies; however, actual VOCs
are sometimes higher. Details of costs and tariffs are given in the project
file. One reason for higher costs is topography and road conditions; another
is the practice of trucking companies of keeping many old, inefficient trucks
in their fleets which need to be maintained and overhauled at consideraable
expense.
F. Highway Administration
2.15      Highways as well as inland waterways and coastal shipping are under
the HOC which is directly under the State Council. MOC has 11 bureaus in four
groups under four vice-ministers in charge of roads and road transport, inland
waterways and coastal transport, planning and budgeting, and science and
technology (Chart 1). One of the bureaus is the Highway Bureau (HB), with 9
divisions. The MOC also controls 13 highway institutes and companies and,
indirectly, the Provincial and County Highway Bureaus in the Provincial and
County Transport Departments (Charts 2, 3 and 4).
2.16      The HB gives general policy direction and support to the Provincial
Highway Bureaus (PHMs). It issues nationwide policies and regulations, speci-
fying construction standards, and provides technical support to the PHBs and



-9-
through them to the County Highway Bureaus (cHBs). It also controls the cen-
tral pool of construction equipment and manpower which can be mobilized to
assist some provincial work if necessary, but does not itself cake the
initiative in constructing major infrastructure. The PHBs have financial
independence and carry out road planning, construction, maintenance and
administration of their roads in line with HB's general policy guidelines;
they also oversee the work of the CHBs. Although HB determines overall road
design standards, field engineering designs are normally prepared by the
Design Institutes of the PHBs. Construction and supervision of works are also
done at the PHB level.
2.17      After 1979, in an effort to unify the planning and development of
the national road network, the HB became more active in regulacing the PHB's
construction and financial decisions. Nevertheless, although the "national
road" concept was incroduced for the first time. there was no change in the
responsibility for the administration, mainEenance, or financing of these
roads. The PHBs still construct, maintain and administer the national roads
in their provinces using their provinciaL budgets. Only for some very large
projects or for major periodic maintenance would HB plan, coustruct, and share
part of the financial burden.
G. Planning, Budgeting, and Financing
2.18      MOC and the State Planning Commission are responsible for overall
planning of the country's road network, but are directly involved onLy in
major projects. Approved projects are passed on to lower level authorities
for execution. Highway planning shows three main weaknesses: the planning of
roads in relation to other transport modes is not being done; selection of
road investments has not been based on economic criteria; and design standards
recommended by HB are frequently not followed by the provincial implementing
agencies due to shortages of funds. While the application of economic
criteria for road investments is now becoming an accepted practice following
Bank involvement in the sector, the other two problems persist. The present
planning and budgeting system is decentralized enough to promote local initia-
tives in planning provincial transport development with the efficient use of
local revenues. However, under this system it is difficult to maintain road
construction standards throughout the country because quality and design
frequently reflect availability of funds. For provincial and commune roads,
the formal planning bodies, i.e., the PTDs and PHBs, have to take into account
three factors: the present condition of the highway system, MIfC's long-term
highway development plan, and projected maintenance fee revenues. Budgetary
allocation for roads by the provincial authorities is realistic and adjusted
to the predicted road maintenance fee revenues, but recommended standards may
be reduced in line with local resources. The question of financing construc-
tion will be addressed within the general context of pricing in the transport
sector, and specifically through road user charges in the subsector. Under
the proposed project, economic criteria have been applied in the selection of
road investments. The problem of the lack of intermodal planning would be
addressed in the future.
2.19      Road Financing.  There are two major sources of road financing:  the
Capital Construction Investment Budget from the central government and the



- iO -
road maincenance *ee coLlecced by che orovincial governments.  Funding from
the Capital Construction Investment 3udget is in the form of a grant or loan
depending on whether the Dro2ect is considered a national investment. It is
used only for new investment projects, not for road maintenance. The approved
.unds can be withdrawn from the People's Construction Bank which also super-
vises the use of funds. The amount of Capital Investment funds allocated for
highways in 1981 amounted to Y 823 miLlion. Total revenues from road main-
cenance fees amounted to Y 4.0 billion in 1983, 30% of which goes directly for
road maintenance expenditures and 20% for expenditures on workshops, machin-
ery, equipment, selected road improvements, research, training, administration
and management. On this basis, the direct expenditures for the maintenance of
the road network would average about Y 3,500 per kilometer which can be
considered high.
2.20      The road maintenance fee is imposed on both M1OC and social trucks,
but using a different rate system. The road maintenance fee for .MOC trucks is
a fixed proportion (10-15Z) of total revenues, but for social trucks, it is a
lump-sum fee charged on the vehicle loading capacity (Y 70-100/capacity-
ton/month). With the differenc systems, MOC trucks cend co pay a lower tax
than do social trucks of comparable size. The road maintenance fee rate is
especially costly for the many social trucks which are underused. The justi-
fication for the two types of road maintenance fee is unc l" r, particuLarLy
since a uniform pricing system exists in most other areas.-   The present fee-
charging system should therefore be reviewed to determine whether it is an
effective tool for use in achieving specific policy targets, that is, whether
there is any allocation or distribution rationale behind the non-uniform fee,
and what are the economic effects of this fee-charging system. This question
will be addressed as part of the Bank Group's dialogue with Government.
H. Engineering
2.21      The engineering of road and bridge projects is done by the Planning
and Design Institutes at MOC's central, provincial, prefecture and county
levels. Major road and bridge projects are done by the HOC Highway Planning
and Design Institute (HPDI), by the First and Second Survey and Design
Institutes located at Xian and Wuhan respectively and by Provincial design
institutes. There is no fixed arrangement for allocation of work to the MOC
Institutes based on geographical or technical considerations, the criterion
being the current work load of each Institute. The Highway Scientific
Research Institute (HSRI) provides support and advice on materials, etc., as
needed. Annex 1 gives a description of the Institutes. The design standards
(Table 2.1) and guidelines for engineering design are set by HOC. Expatriate
consultants are used only for specialized studies and then in joint venture
with the HPDI. Since the workload of the HPDI is expanding in line with the
increase in traffic on the highway network, the design capacity of the
Institute would be strengthened under the project through the provision of
1/   Reasons given by HOC for the lump-sum fee charged on social trucks are
(a) the difficulty in getting accurate figures on revenues for a revenue-
based fee and (b) a lump-sum fee was expected to encourage efficiency.



- 11 -
computer-aided design and engineering equipment and site investigation
equipment and through scaff training.
I. Construction and Maintenance
2.22      Construccion of roads and bridges was, in the past, normally done as
a force account operation by construction bureaus attached to MOC headquarters
or to the PTDs and CTDs. The major contractor unit, the China Road and Bridge
Engineeri-n Companv attached to the MOC, has operated as a contractor in the
Xiddle East and Africa. Formerly caLled the China Highway Construction
Company for Foreign Countries, when it undertook projects financed by China
under its aid program, the Company in its new capacity as an incernational
contractor now executes a wide variety of civil works projects abroad.
Although -well staffed wich professional engineers and technicians. -:ae Company
Lacks staff experienced in international contracting saw, contract management,
and bid preparation.
2.23      In May 1984 the State Council authorized the incroduction of
competitive bidding for civil works projects and the establishmenc of con-
struction companies from the existing pubLic construction bureaus -o carry out
works on national and provincial roads. The MOC has proposed the use of
competitive bidding - both incernational competitive bidding (ICB) and local
competitive bidding (LCB) - for highways to be financed under the proposed
project. To support the Government's move to competitive bidding on highways,
the Bank Group staff and an expert on bid documentation are helping prepare
the documents needed for ICB and LCB, and expertise would also be financed
under the project to help MOC supervise works and ensure quality control.
2.24      National and provincial roads are well maintained by the PTDs.
However, maintenance of paved roads is becoming more costly, ranging between
Y 3,500 and Y 5,000 per kilometer, due to their poor quality and the rapid
traffic growth. The proposed study of the paved road network (para. 2.01)
would identify strengthening and rehabilitation needs, and thus help to lower
future maintenance costs. Maintenance of county roads by the CTDs is adequate
in scope and well organized, but due to the labor-intensive methods used,
roads are surfaced with large size, hand-crushed stones providing poor riding
surfaces. Equipment would be provided to correct this problem in the project
areas.
J. Road Safety
2.25      Although the available ctatistics on road traffic accidents are
neither comprehensive nor reliable, it is evident that the situation regarding
road safety is far from satisfactory. The low geometric and quality standards
of most roads combined with the mix of slow and fast moving traffic are not
conducive to road safety. It is proposed to strengthen road safety research
in China by having the ESRI carry out a study to identify the causes of road
traffic accidents. The study would cover (a) a review of the existing system
of reporting, recording and analyzing accident statistics; (b) recommendations
on improved traffic accident data collection, recording and analysis; and
(c) identification of a program for the reduction of traffic accidents.



- 12 -
K. Staff Training
2.26      Existing staff of che MOC and the PTDs are in general professionally
competent, but many have not been exposed to new technology and therefore
often use outmoded work methods and equipment. Preliminary estimates indicate
that a substantial number of engineers, assistant engineers and technicians
would be required each year by MOC to meet the proposed targets in the Seventh
Five-Year Development Plan (1986-90). Following the difficult period of the
Late 1960s and early 1970s, technical manpower planning and assessment of
related training needs for the highway subsector have only recently been
resumed. There is clearly an urgent need to strengthen and expand the output
of formal education and the ongoing training programs to increase and upgrade
the number of technical staff required to meet the demand for trained person-
nel during the PLan period.
2.27      The MOC's Education Bureau has three major divisions, each one
responsible for a specific aspect of staff deveLopment, as follows: (a)
Training Division. responsible for training courses to upgrade administrative
staff, engineers, assistant engineers, technicians and skilled and semi-
skilled workers; (b) Education Division (technical/vocational level), respon-
sibLe for education and training activities carried out by some 40 technical
schools for mid-level technicians and some 100 vocational schools for skilled
workers; and (c) Education Division (engineering level), responsible for three
highway institutes, one transportation school, six maritime, waterway, and
navigation schools, and one medical college (Chart 4). In addition, the PTDs
have their own Provincial Transportation Technical Schools and district
training centers and carry out their share of education and training programs
in accordance with general guidelines issued by MOC's Education Bureau. Most
MOC and PTD institutes, schools and centers lack the physical capacity to meet
the increasing manpower demand, have scarce and outmoded training equipment,
and need to have most of their curricula upgraded to reflect modern technology
in the various highway disciplines. The training component included in the
proposed project would therefore assist MOC to correct these deficiencies, and
to modernize and raise staff professional standards in the highway subsector.
L. Highway Development: Policy and Objectives for the 1980s
2.28      Government policy for the highway subsector in the 1980s has a joint
focus on quality improvement and expansion of the network to meet increasing
demand. This differs from the policy of the past 30 years which sacrificed
road quality for road length and left China with a Legacy of substandard roads
unable to sustain the recent increase in traffic resulting from rapid economic
growth. The MOC now realizes that programs for road network expansion and
rehabilitation must proceed simultaneously, supported by quality improvement
programs for construction, construction materials, road transport equipment,
and road transport industry management.
2.29      The Bank Group's strategy for the subsector is to support Govern-
ment's twin objectives for highways by assisting the process of network expan-
sion while helping to direct development policy toward greater quality
improvement. This support would be within the framework of longer-term
objectives concerned with increasing efficiency and cost-effectiveness in



- 13 -
meeting the increased transporc demand in the subsecror. These objectives
would address specific poiicy, inscttutional and technciogical areas such
as: improved economic evaluation techniques for the selection of road invest-
ments; improved intermoda. ?Lanninx; transport tariff and road user taxation
systems; increased efficiency in -he road transport industry; improved effi-
ciency in conscruction by suDporcing Government's policy ot compezitive
bidding and deveLopment of the local concraccing industry; staff training;
modernization of highway design and updating and improving construction and
material specifications; and supportine highway research.  The Bank Group has
agreed with Government that a number or tnese objectives would be dealt with
under the proposed project.  Action on the remaining obieccives will be
decided in the course of ongoing discussions with Government relating to the
Bank's economic and sector work.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Formulation and Preparation
3.01      Preliminary discussions with Government on the highway subsector
began i7 1980 during preparation of the Bank's first Economic Repoi.: on
China.2l  Following further discussion, MOC requested Bank Group assistance to
finance a highway project, which was identified in June 1983. A Bank Group
preappraisal mission visited China in May 1984 and the project was appraised
in October/November 1984. The project was prepared by the Ministry of Commu-
nications (MOC) and the Highway Bureaus of the Provincial and County Transport
Departments.
B. Project Objectives and Scope
3.02      The proposed project would support the Government's policy and
institutional objectives for the subsector by:
(a)  improving che quality of future construction works by
i) modernizing highway design and (ii) updating and improving
construction and material specifications;
(b)  increasing the cost-effectiveness of highway investments by
(i) improving economic evaluation techniques for the evaluation and
selection of road investments and (ii) supporting Government's new
policy of moving to competitive bidding for public works;
(c)  supporting a highway research program, with particular emphasis on
improving and strengthening the existing paved national road
network, improving road capacity in congested areas and improving
road safety; and
2/  Report No. 3391-CHA, China:  Socialist Economic Development, June 1,
1981.



- 14 -
(d) strengthening the caDabilities of staff working in the highway
subsector by carrying out a training program.
3.03      To accomplish these objectives, the projecE would include:
(a) construction or improvement of about 230 km of national roads;
(b)  construction or improvement of about 1,400 km of rural roads;
(c) provision of computer-aided design and engineering equipment and
site investigation and related laboratory equipment for the Highway
Planning and Design Institute (HPDI) in order to modernize future
highway designs;
(d) provision of laboratory testing and other research-related equipment
for the Highway Scientific Research Institute (HSRI) in support of
their research program, including studies on the strengthening of
the paved national road network, road congestion, and road safety;
(e) training of staff from MOC's Highway Bureau, the Provincial Highway
Bureaus (PHBs), the HPDI and the HSRI;
(f)  consultants' services and technical assistance to help the MOC, the
PHBs and the Highway Institutes in the supervision and quality
controL of road construction, and for studies to be done under the
research program and for seminars and workshops as needed; and
(g) purchase of basic road maintenance equipment for selected provinces.
Other Government development objectives would also be supported by the con-
struction works to be carried out under the project. These works would
provide important interprovincial road links which would allow increased and
more efficient economic activity in and between the provinces. In addition,
the improvement of some rural roads would support the Government's policy of
promoting economic development in rural areas, where agriculture, the
country's primary economic activity, still employs 72% of the country's work
force.
3.04      Project roads were selected on the basis of economic criteria and
economic evaluation procedures which have been newly introduced into China and
which Covernment intends to follow in the future to ensure the cost-effective-
ness of investments. Project road construction, both of the national and
rural networks, has been kept modest relative to actual needs and is consid-
ered to be well within the capacity of the implementing agencies.
C. Detailed Features
3.05      The Construction or Improvement of National Roads.  The 230 km of
national roads to be constructed or improved under the project comprise seven
road sections located in six provinces (see Maps). The roads, road length,
design standard, estimated cost, traffic and provincial distribution are shown



- 15 -
in Table 3.1. Estimated present traffic is relatively heavy and ranges from
264 AADT to 3,064 AADT. One road has been designed to Class 1 standards, two
roads to Class 2 and the remainder to Class 3; these design scandards are
appropriate. Assurances were obtained from Government that road sections to
be constructed/improved and the related design standards would be as agreed
during negotiations. Existing alignments will be used to the extent compati-
ble with sound engineering and road safety. The significance of each project
road is described in Annex 2 and a profile of the project provinces is given
in Annex 3.
3.06      The roads, which were selected by the Provincial Transport Depart-
ments (PTDs) as che missing Links in the national necwork in most need of
urgent construction or improvement, have been the subject of derailed Feasi-
bility studies, also prepared by the PTDs with assistance from Bank Group
staff. Detailed engineering has been completed and the contract documents for
ICB and LCB are being prepared by MOC's Highway Bureau with the guidance of
Bank Group staff and the help of expatriate consultants financed under
Technical Cooperation Credit 1412-CHA.
3.07      The Construction or Improvement of Rural (County) Roads.  The
1,400 km of rural roads to be constructed or improved under the project con-
sist of 59 road sections in six provinces (see Maps). The roads, road length,
design standard, estimated cost, and provincial distribution are shown in
Table 3.2. The roads have been designed to Class 3 and Class 4 standards
which are appropriate. Assurances were obtained from Government that the road
sections to be constructed/improved and their design standards would be as
agreed during negotiations. Existing alignments and bridges will be used to
the maximum extent to reduce costs.
3.08      Feasibility studies and designs for the roads have been completed.
More simplified documentation suited to such roads, comprising longitudinal
profiles, typical cross-sections and priced bills of major quantities have
been prepared. The rural roads have been selected for improvement by the
County Transport Departments (CTDs) which have also prepared the feasibility
studies and detailed designs with the guidance of PTDs, MOC's Highway Bureau,
and Bank Group staff.
3.09      Assistance to the Highway Planning and Design Institute (HPDI).
GovernmentTs current emphasis on the expansion and improvement of the highway
network has involved the Institute in planning and supervising the designs of
highways throughout China, but its performance is hindered by outmoded equip-
ment and a lack of trained staff. To help the Institute carry out this
increasingly heavy work program more efficiently and more cost-effectively,
staff would be trained under the project (para. 3.12), and the Institute's
equipment would be upgraded and modernized. Computer-aided design and engin-
eering (CADE) and other computer equipment as well as equipment for site
investigations and materials testing would be financed under the project. In
addition, to improve management, an engineering data bank including a national
roads condition inventory would be computerized, and computerized management
information systems introduced.



- 6 -
3.10      Assistance to the wijarwav Scientific Research Institute (HSRI).  The
researcn program of the  nsti-:ute is described in Annex 1.  To support this
program. soils and materials :esring equipmenc would be financed under the
project. This equipment combined -with the training ot staff (para. 3.12)
would enable the Institute :o carry out its program and fulfill its task of
being the major scientific and technoLogical research base in China for
highway transportation.
3.11      Assistance in the form of equipment and expatriate expertise would
also be provided for che olilowing Ehree studies to be carried out bv the
Institute: a studv to assess :re methodoLogy for pavement strength evaluation
to identify the improvemenc and strengthening needs of the existing paved
national roads (para. 2.01); studies for improving road capacity in congested
areas near cities (para. 2.06) and road safety (para. 2.25). Assurances were
obtained from Government during negotiations that -he studies wouid be carried
out under _erms of reference acceptable to the Bank/Association, beginning by
July i, :986 and compLeted by December 31, 1987; and that Government and the
Bank/Association would exchange views on the findings of the studies.
3.12      Staff Training.  The proposed three-year training program (1986-
1988) aims at upgrading and modernizing the skills of the technical staff in
the various fields concerned with the highway subsector. The program has a
two-fold approach and would:
(a) improve the proficiency of engineers and other staff by sending
abroad selected personnel to attend academic and practical training
courses as well as relevant international conferences; and
(b)  strengthen the capacity of MOC's Highway Institutes as well as the
Provincial Transportation Technical Schools by: (i) purchasing
laboratory, computer and photogrammetry equipment, training aids and
essential technical books and publications; (ii) training abroad of
professors/instructors; and (iii) inviting foreign academic experts
for short visits to help upgrade curricula.
3.13      As part of the program, about 65 overseas fellowships would be
needed in transportation planning, soils and materials engineering, aerial
photogrammetry, economic analysis, financial management and accounting,
highway maintenance and equipment management, construction management and
supervision including quality control, bridge hydrology, concrete technology
and asphalt concrete and asphaltic cement. It is expected that on their
return, the trainees would play a major role in the development and management
of the Chinese road system and in the transfer of updated technology to other
highway staff. The HB would have overall responsibility for implementation of
the training component at the national level since the training program is
directly concerned with the highway subsector. The PTDs would be directly
responsible for day-to-day training activities in the provinces. This train-
ing component, although relatively small compared to MOC's staff development
needs, is an essential first step toward a long-term process of modernization
of the country's highway subsector. Detailed costs of the training program
are given in Table 3.3. Assurances were obtained from Government during



- 7 -
negotiations that the training would be carried out according to a program
agreed with the Bank/Association.
3.14      Consultant Services.  A total of about 50 man-months of expatriate
consultant expertise is estimated to be needed under the proposed project.
Local expertise available in the various Institutes in the sector would be
used to the extent possible. Expatriate help would be sought only for those
areas of advanced technology where local expertise is lacking. Such areas
include the use of advanced instrumentation for measuring road deterioration,
analysis of traffic flows, transport economics, etc. Supervision of national
road construction or improvement works will be done mainlv bv local staff sup-
ported by a number of key expatriates; about 20 man-monchs of foreign exper-
tise is estimated to be needed to help set up and implement che crganizational
systems and procedures for effective quality control on site. About 15 man-
months of expatriate expertise would be needed for studies and the research
program to be done by the HSRI (para. 3.11) and about another i5 man-months
for help on seminars and workshops on specialized topics related to the high-
way subsector. During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government on
terms of reference for the consulting services. All consultants wouLd be
employed under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank/Association and in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
3.15      Road Maintenance Equipment.  Maintenance of the existing rural roads
is difficult because the roads are mostly surfaced with uncompacted large size
hand-crushed stone, which gives a very rough riding surface. The level of
service of these roads could be greatly improved with the application of fine
crushed material compacted to a dense layer. Under the project, some mainte-
nance equipment, such as motor graders, mobile crushers and smooth-wheel
rollers, would be provided to the CTDs for the maintenance of these roads and
the rural roads to be constructed or improved under the project.
D. Cost Estimates
3.16      The total project cost including physical and price contingencies
but excluding right-of-way costs is estimated at about Y 450.4 million, or
US$169.4 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$72.6 mil-
lion or about 43%. Project costs are shown on page 18. All base costs are
estimated in March 1985 prices. Physical contingencies are calculated at 10%
of base cost estimates and applied to all components. For the calculation of
price contingencies, it is assumed that exchange rate adjustments will, on
average, be made to maintain "purchasing power parity" during the project
implementation period. On this basis, price escalation for both foreign and
local costs, (a) when expressed in U.S. dollars, is based on expected inter-
national annual inflation rates of 5% in 1985, 7.5% in 1986 and 8% in 1987-
1988; (b) when expressed in Yuan, is based on expected domestic inflation of
3% p.a. in 1985-1989. Taxes and duties on construction are estimated at
US$16.8 million equivalent.
3.17      The costs of civil works on national and-rural roads have been
estimated by the PTDs and CTDs and are based on work quantities calculated
from detailed designs. Unit prices for the work items have been computed on
the basis of MOC's standard manuals for labor and equipment productivity and



PROJECT COST SUMMARY /a
Total                            Total                % of          X of
Local    Foreign      Total      Local    Foreign    Total    foreign           total
Project element                        ------- (Yuan'000)    --    - ------ (US$'000) -------    exchange    base costs
National Road Construction
Yancheng-Gaotang (53 km)             16,657    16,657    33,314        5,865      5,865    11,730        50             9
Xian-Sanyuan (35 km)                 34,073    34,073    68,147       11,998    11,998    23,995         50            17
Other roads (138 km)                 30,233    20,155    50,388       10,645      7,097    17,742        40            13
Rural road construction               139,751    75,251   215,002       49,208    26,497    75,705         35            55
Equipment
HPDI                                    311      3,149     3,460         110      1,109      1,218       91             1
HSRI                                      -      3,900     3,900           -      1,373      1,373      100             1
Training                                    -      6,049      6,049           -     2,130      2,130       100            2
Consultant oervices                         -      1,778      1,778          -        626        626       100            1
Road maintenance equipment                  -      5,200      5,200          -      1,831      1,831       100            1
Total Base Costs                 221,026   166,212   387,238       77,826    58,525   136,351         43           100
Physical contingencies                 22,103    16,621    38,724        7,783      5,853    13,635        43
Price contingencies                    14,156    10,265    24,421       11,264      8,188    19,452        42
Total                            257,284   193,098   450,382       96,873    72,565   169,438         43
Right-of-way costs                     20,269          -    20,269       7,137          -      7,137
Total Financing Required         277,553   193,098   470,651    104,010    72,565   176,575           41
/a Columns may not add up due to rounding.



- 19 -
the related annualLy-updated costs, combined with the current costs of
materials; the unit prices include adequate allowances for equipment deprecia-
tion, overheads and profit for contract work. The cost estimates were
reviewed at appraisal and found satisfactory.
3.18      The base cost per kilometer of the Class 1, dual two-lane Xian-
Sanyuan national road is about US$680,000, which is acceptable since it
includes about 2,000 meters of major bridge works and an underpass to the
railway. The base Post per kilometer for the remaining two-lane nationaL
roads is about US$155,000, and about US$55,000 for the rural roads. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at about 50Z for foreign contractors,
and about 40% for domestic contracEors. For the force account work on ruraL
roads, the foreign exchange component is estimated at about 35% which reflects
the more labor-intensive construction method to be used.
3.19      The costs of computer and laboratory equipment are based on prices
quoted by manufacturers outside China. A notional amount has been included
for the road maintenance equipi..:.at pending finalization of a list of the PTDs'
needs. The costs of the training program are shown in Table 3.3.
E.  Financing
3.20      The Bank loan of US$42.6 million and an IDA credit of SDR 30.3 mil-
lion (US$30 million equivalent) would finance about 43Z of total project
costs, or about 1002 of the foreign exchange costs. The Government would
provide about US$104.0 million equivalent to meet the remaining capital costs
of the project. Details of project financing are shown in the following
table:



- 20 -
FINANCING PLAN
Government
(MOC  and  PTDs)          Rank/IDA        Total
(USs million)
National Road Construction         -       28.5              25.0          53.5
Rural Road Construction            -       49.2              26.5          75.7
Equipment for HPDI
and HSRI                        0.1        -                2.5           2.6
Road Haintenance Equipment        -          -                 1.8          1.8
Training                                     -                 2.1          2.1
Consultant Services                -         -                0.6           0.6
Subtotal                    0.1       77.7              58.5         136.3
Contingencies                   -        19.0               14.1         33.1
Right-of-way costs               -        7.2                 -           7.2
Total                       0.1      103.9              72.6         176.6
F. Implementation
3.21      MOC would have over'!.l responsibility for implementing the proj-
ect. National roads ;;;,Id be constructed or improved under unit priced con-
tracts and supervised by the PTDs, which are part of the provincial govern-
ments but under HOC leadership. Construction Bureaus presently attached to
the MOC or PTDs which have satisfactory experience on road works and adequate
resources are being set up as financially and legally independent construction
companies to bid on the national road contracts; these companies will form the
basis of the new contracting industry in China. PTDs will supervise the con-
tracts through a project management unit to be established in each province;
each unit will be comprised of a proiect manager, engineer, supervisor and
other staff as needed. Construction Gf nationaL roads is expected to start in
early 1986 and be completed in about two and a half years.
3.22      Construction or improvement of rural roads (US$94.1 million) would
be carried out under force account by CTD construction units for reasons of
efficiency. The CTD construction units are well organized and experienced,
and have adequate resources and ready access to local materials and local
labor, enabling them to start work without delay. Because the works are gen-
erally small in scope and are located in remote mountainous areas, inter-
national contractors are unlikely to be interested, nor would the preparation



- 21 -
of detailed engineering and bid documents to ICB standards be cost-effective
for such low standard roads. Similarly, for domestic contracting, there are
at present virtualiy no Local contractors for such work in these areas, and
the construction companies neWLv-tormed for purposes or national and provin-
cial road construccion and upgrading (para. 2.23) mould face substantial
mobilization costs, given the tack of familiarity with these areas and their
remoteness. The const.uccion units would be directly supervised by the CTDs,
but under the overall control of the PTD project management units.  The con-
struction of rural roads is expected co start by late 1985 and be completed
within two years. Funding for ruraL roads under the project will come from
the Bank Group, and provincial and local sources.  No centrai government
resources are anticipated. Local contributions would cover :he costs of 'ocal
labor and mate-ials, and compensation within the right-of-way. The scattered
location of project rural road construction will require frequent and care-
fully planned supervision by Bank staff. Supervision wilL be assisted by
quarterly reports an project physical and financial progress. which wilL be
base4 on agreed priced Bills of Quantities ior each rural road subproject
(para. 3.30) and submitted to the Bank by MOC (para. 3.36). The reports,
combined with selective site visics to the various provinces during super-
vision missions, are expected to provide a satisfactory means of monitoring
progress.
3.23      Road works included in the project represent the total road programs
of the various provincial and county governments involved during th2 project
period. Under the pr,ject, specialized expertise would be made available to
both the provincial and county authorities to help them set up suitable
organizations with appropriate systems and procedures to control the quality
of work.
3.24      The PTDs are part of the provincial governments, but professionally
under the leadership and guidance of MOC. Decisions will be required at the
provincial level for project implementation by the PTDs, including allocation
of funds and road maintenance charge revenues.  Consequently, assurances were
obtained from Government during negotiations that MOC and the project pro-
vinces viil enter into a Project Implementation Agreement setting out their
respective responsibilities in project implementation. While the Bank Group
would not be a party to this Agreement, signing of the Project Implementation
Agreement on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank/Association would
be a condition of loan/credit effectiveness, and non-compliance with its pro-
visions could be grounds for default under the loan/credit agreement.
3.25      MOC's Highway Bureau would be responsible for implementation of the
training component, which would start in late 1985 and continue until end of
1988. The HSRI would continue its research program during the project period
and would carry out the three project studies during 1986-87.
3.26      The MOC would be responsible for selecting consultants to provide
the expertise on supervision and quality con_rol of civil works; the experts
are expected to start work in early 1986 in order to help establish the super-
visory organization prior to start of civil works. The expatriate experts
needed for the HSRI studies and research program would be recruited as needed
from early 1986 and during the period of the studies. It is expected that the
procurement of all research equipment would start in early 1986 and be com-
pleted by late 1986.



- 22 -
3.27      An implementation schedule for the proposed project (Annex 4) was
agreed with Government during negotiations.
C. Procurement
3.28      Procurement under the Droject would be carried out as shown in the
following table.
Procurement Method             Total
Project Element           ICB       LCB        Other         Cosc
(US$ million)
Civil Works
National Roads             44.4       22.0           -          66.4
(20.5)     (10.2)         -          (30.7)
RuraL Roads                  -          -          94.1         94.1
(33.1)       (33.1)
Equipment                     2.3                     3.2          5.5
(2.3)                  (3.1)        (5.4)
Training and Consultants       -           -          3.4          3.4
(3.4)        (3.4)
Total                        46.7        22.0       100.7        169.4
(22.8)     (10.2)      (39.6)       (72.6)
Note:     Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Sank Group. All figures include estimated physical and price
contingencies.
3.29      Construction of national roads under the project will be carried out
under international and local competitive bidding (ICB and LCB). The
International Tendering Corporation of the China National Technical Import
Corporation (CNTIC), in conjunction with MOC, will organize the ICB. HOC and
the provinces will organize the LCB. Local bidders wiLl be required to be
finAncially and legally autonomous. Two major national road contracts
(US$44.4 million) will be carried out through contracts awarded on the basis
of ICB by prequalified firms in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. The
other national roads (US$22.0 million), which are unlikely to attract inter-
national contractors because of their dispersed location and size, would be
awarded on the basis of LCB, the documentation for which is being prepared
(para. 3.06).
3.30      Construction or improvement of rural roads (US$94.1 million) would
be carried out under force account (para. 3.22). Currently, such construction
is done under a Guarantee Letter from the provincial government to MOC and the



- 23 -
Ministry of Finance (MOF), ensuring -hat the funds wiil be made a'iailable from
budget, Loan or grant sources for mhe roads in question, based on a guarantee
from the CTD to the PMD. In the future and under the proposed project, the
PTDs would sign priced agreements with the county governments for the con-
struction of works. During negotiations agreement was reached with Government
on a priced Bill of Quantities for each rural road subproject in order co
estabLish a firm and agreed cost.
3.31      Road maintenance equipment (US$2.3 million) would be procured by
ICB, but as the equipment to be procured for the HPDI and fSRI (USS1.4 million
and US$1.7 million, respectively) and for the training component is highiv
specialized, Limited international bidding from at least Ehree suppliers wouLd
be used. However, items or groups of items estimated co cost Less than the
equivalent of US$50,000 per contract, up co an aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent of USS300,000, may be procured on the basis of a comparison of
price quotations solicited from at least three suppliers eligible under the
GuideLines, and in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank/
Association. CNTIC or another authorized government agency would be
responsible for alL equipment procurement through ICB.
3.32      Under ICB, qualifying domestic contractors and manufacturers would
be permitted to participate and would be eligible for a margin of preference
of 7PZ for civil works and 15% for goods, or the prevailing customs duties,
whichever is lower, in the comparison of bids. Since this would be the first
time that contracts would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding in
the highway subsector in China, all contracts for civil -works and equipment
would be subject to prior review and agreement by the Bank Group.
H. Disbursements
3.33      Disbursement of the Bank loan/IDA credit would be as follows:
Ca) 46% of the total cost of national road construction;
Cb) 35% of the total cost of rural rcad construction;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment or 100%
of local expenditures (ex-factory) and 75% of local expenditures for
other items locally procured;
(d) 100Z of the costs of foreign consulting services and local experts;
and
(e) 100% of the costs of overseas training of staff.
To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account would be opened in US dollars in
a Bank acceptable to the Bank Group with an initial deposit of the US dollar
equivalent of SDR 10.0 million, which represents the estimated maximum
expenditures for a four-month period. Applications for replenishment of the
Special Account would be submitted quarterly or whenever the Special Account
is drawn down to 50Z of its initial deposit, whichever comes first. The
project would be compLeted by June 30, 1990. Loan/credit closing is expected



- 24 -
by June 30, 1991. A schedule of estimated disbursements is given in TabLe 3.4
which also shows the Regional highway project disbursement profile. Disburse-
ments under the prooosed proiect are estimated to be completed sLizhcly
earLier tian .he regional -rofiLe shows.  Since China's economv 's arcwing
steadily, revenue accruaL. is expected to remain strong during the =rolect
period and :herefore delays due to budgetary constrainrs are not an::Ci-ated.
A'thougn -he new competitive bidding procurement nehnod is being introduced
for the first time in China Eor h.ighways and could cause problems. anv delavs
are expecced to be minimizea bV appropriate 3ank GrouD supervisiGn and -ssis-
tance duri g the earlv sCage or the -rojecc.
3.34      roanicredit disbursements would be made against priced cznEraccs for
national road civii works and ecuipment. and priced agreemencs tor :-e =3rce
account Cl';ii. works on rurai roads.  Interim certification of cii vorks
compLeted and costed at unit rates _n the contracts and agreements Wu;L be
done by the Provincial and County Highway Bureaus and certified by -"e HOC.
Loan/credit disbursements for training overseas will be made against -he
actual costs of travel, subsistence and tuition or training fees. Disburse-
ments against statements of expenditure will be needed for the training
component and for goods or services costing less than US$50,000. Documents to
support statements of expenditure would not be submitted to the Bank Group,
but would be retained by the HOC and made available for review by Bank
supervision missions.
I. Auditing, Reporting and Monitoring
3.35      A State Auditing Agency (SAA) has been established to carry out
detailed audits of government agency accounts. Assurances were obtained from
Government during negotiations that the accounts of project-related expendi-
tures would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank/
Association, and that audit reports would be sent to the Bank Group for review
within six months of the close of each fiscal year. The Bank Group currently
accepts SAA audits for this purpose.
3.36      Assurances were obtained from Government during negotiations that
project progress reports would be submitted to the Bank Group quarterly by
MOC, based on the Project Monitoring Indices shown in Annex 5. Assurances
were also obtained on the preparation and submission by Government of a
Project Completion Report not later than six months after the loanlcredit
closing date.
J. Environmental Effects
3.37      The road improvements should cause no significant environmental
problems. By following existing alignments to the extent technically and
economically feasible, the acquisition of scarce agricultural land will be
minimized. The improved alignment and reduction of existing hazardous dust
and mud by paving would improve road safety.



- 25 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01      China's new economic poLicies, particuLarly the empha -s on light
industry and the economic responsibility system in agriculture.-  are creating
a rapidly growing demand for both long- and short-distance road transport.
The rapidly increasing oucput of textile. chemical, electronic and food
processing industries. which are all well suited to road transport, has been
accompanied by a growing demand for transport from producer to consumer
between cities and often across provinciaL boundaries. n rurai areas, agri-
cultural production as well as the increasing production of household and
rural enterprises must be transported, often very rapidly. _o nearby towns and
other neighboring areas. Moreover, various enterprises have come to realize
the financial advantages of highway transport, which enables -nem to deliver
industrial goods and perishable products rapidly and promptly to cities. The
development of tourism throughout China and the very rapid increase in highway
passenger traffic have also indicated the need for substantial development of
highway infrastructure to serve the various and steadily increasing needs of
China's economy.
4.02      To handle the emerging demand for both long- and short-distance road
transport, development of roads should be on two fronts: (a) the improvement
and strengthening of major intercity highways, including bridges; and (b) the
development and expansion of rural road networks. The proposed project would
address both of these needs by directly contributing to the Government's plan
of closing gaps in the national road network to facilitate interprovincial
road transport, and by helping to develop rural roads in areas presently
accessible only by footpaths. The benefits of the national road construction
will accrue widely throughout the economy. Rural roads will open opportuni-
ties to exploit resources for which low-cost motorized transport is required,
and benefits will accrue to the residents of the areas served. The detailed
economic analyses of the major project components are given below.
4.03      For this analysis, all inputs and outputs were evaluated in
September 1984 constant economic prices. Taxes and duties were excluded from
financial prices. For traded goods, the c.i.f. prices of imports and f.o.b.
prices of exports were used in estimating the cost of materials and equipment
with due adjustment for the cost of inland transportation. The official
exchange rates were used to convert foreign currencies to Renminbi. A conver-
sion factor of 0.5 was applied for unskilled labor costs, while the shadow
wage rate was calcul-ated at four times the actual wage for highly qualified
supervisory staff.
3/   Under the economic responsibility system, surplus production belongs to
the producing farmer.



- 26 -
B. Construction and Improvement of National Roads
4.04      Since the road sections included in the project are missing links in
the network, traffic will be diverted from more circuitous routes. In order
to estimate potential traffic diversion, traffic counts carried out on these
routes since 1980 have been used, supplemented by origin-destination surveys
in 1983 and 1984. The 1984 traffic Levels that could have been expected on
the project roads if they had existed range from 264 AADT to 3,064 AADT.
Traffic volumes have been estimated by using a growth rate of 9Z p.a. between
1984 and 1988, when the roads would be opened. Allowance for generated
traffic was made bV increasing the growth rate to 12Z p.a. for two years
following opening of the roads and then a gradually decreasing growth race
over the project Life. Traffic forecasts are shown in TabLe 3.1.
4.05      The main benefits obtained from the construction of the roads are
substantial savings in vehicle operating costs (VOCs) resuLting primarily from
distance savings and to a lesser extent from reduced VOCs due to improved sur-
face conditions. Other benefits such as time savings and reduced accidents
and congestion on the existing alternate routes are smaller and have only been
quantified when significant on roads with the highest traffic volumes.
Annex 6 gives the decailed analysis for the Xian-Sanyuan road, and the
economic rates of return (ERR) for other roads, calculated in the same way,
are given in Table 3.1. They range from 17% to 37%.
C. Construction and Improvement of Rural Roads
4.06      The benefits of rural roads would be in terms of transport cost sav-
ings as well as value added to new production which the roads would make
possible by reducing transport costs. The service areas of the project roads
are presently only accessible by trails and all transport is by porters.
Usually a porter can carry a 50 kg load for about 20 km each day; the cost per
ton-km is between 3 and 4 yuan. With the road, transport costs will fall to
some 0.2 yuan per ton-km. The largest benefit however will be in terms of
value added through the exploitation of resources which are uneconomical at
the prevailing transport cost and impractical in terms of the hard labor
involved. Since the proposed roads to be constructed are in the more hilly
areas of the various provinces included in the project, the resources are
mainly from mining of coal, construction materials, marble, timber and bamboo
production, and only to a lesser extent from increased agricultural production
of cash crops. Annex 7 gives the detailed analysis for one rural road in
Sichuan Province, and the ERRs for the others calculated with the same model
are given in Table 3.2. They range from 14% to 37%.



- 27 -
D. Overall E7aluation and Risks
4.07      Based on the combined costs and benefits of all project roads and
some minor maintenance equipment to be provided under the project, the overall
ERR of the project is 20%.
4.08      The major project risk invoLves possible delays in project start-up
and implementation due to the introduction of ICB and LCB. To minimize this
risk, appropriate Bank Group assistance and supervision will be provided in
the early project stages. It is unlikely that traffic growth will be lower
than estimated since road transport in China is at an early stage of deveLop-
ment and the potential for growth is very large. Traffic growth may well be
higher than estimated. The risk is therefore very low that the race of return
would fall below the above estimate. The sensitivity for the major project
components is summarized below:
Internal Economic Rates of Return
National Roads      Rural Roads  Entire Project
(x)                ()             (z)
Best estimate                        21                  21             20
Construction cost up 202              18                 18             17
Traffic growth reduced by 10%        20                n.a.            n.a.
Slower increase in value added
by 25%                             n.a.                 17            n.a.
n.a. - not applicable.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      Agreement with Government was reached during negotiations on:
(a) road sections to be constructed under the project and their design
standards (paras. 3.05 and 3.07);
(b) an implementation schedule for the training program (para. 3.13);
(c) terms of reference for consulting services for the project
(para. 3.14);
(d) a project implementation schedule (para. 3.27); and
(e) a priced Bill of Quantities for each rural road subproject
(para. 3.30).



- 28 -
5.02      Assurances were obtained from Government during negotiations that:
(a) road segments to be constructed/improved and related design
standards would be as agreed (paras. 3.05 and 3.07);
(b) studies would be carried out under terms of reference and timing
acceptable to the Bank/Association and Government and the Bank/
Association would exchange views on the findings of the studies
(para. 3.11);
(c)  training would be carried o:t according to an agreed program (para.
3.13);
(d) the audited accounts of project-related expenditures prepared by the
State Auditing Agency will be sent to the Bank Group for review
within six months of the close of each fiscal year (para. 3.35); and
(e) project progress reports will be submitted quarterly to the Bank
Group, and a Project Completion Report will be submitted to the Bank
Group not later than six months after the loan/credit closing date
(para. 3.36).
5.03      Signing of the Project Implementation Agreement (para. 3.24) and
State Council approval of the Loan/Development Credit Agreements would be
conditions of loan/credit effectiveness.
5.04      With the above agreements, assurances and conditions, the proposed
project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$42.6 million for a term of 20 years,
including a grace period of five years at the standard variable interest rate,
and an IDA credit of SDR 30.3 million (US$30 million equivalent) on standard
IDA terms. The borrower would be the People's Republic of China.



- 29 -                        Table 1.1
CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Annual Growth and Modal Split in Freight Traffic, 1949-83
(Billion ton-km)
Inland
Years                      Highways      Railways  waterways    Pipelines
The Expansion Period (1950s)
1949                         0.81             18.4        6.31
1950                         n.a.             39.4        n.a.
1952                         1.45             60.2       14.58
1957                         4.80            134.6        n.a.
1958                         6.96            185.5        n.a.
1960                         n.a.            228.0        n.a.
Annual growth over
the period (X)               27.0              25.0
Modal split (Z)                 1.9              79.0        19.1
The Retrenchment Period (1960s)
1965                         9.51            269.6        n.a.
1970                        17.50            272.0        n.a.
Annual growth over
the period (%)               13.0               1.8
The Re-expansion Period (1970s)
1975                        20.26            427.6      102.1 /b
1979                        26.83 (74.5)/a  559.8       139.0          47.6
Annual growth over
the period (Z)                4.8               8.0       11.0
Modal split (Z)                 9.6              72.4        18.0
The Modernization Period (1980s)
1980                        25.5  (76.4)    571.7       152.3          49.1
1981                        25.3  (78.0)    571.2       150.7          49.9
1982                        30.3  (94.9)    612.0       170.8          50.1
1983                             (108.4)    664.6       180.5          52.4
Annual growth 1980-83 (Z)       4.2  (8.5)        3.5         7.2
Modal split (X)                11.0              66.0        18.0           5
/a In the case of highways, figures in parentheses show total freight traffic
in the country; figures not in parentheses show freight traffic handled by
public trucks.
/b 1977 figure.
Sources: Ten Great Years, pp. 146, 148, Beijing, September 1959 (for 1949-
1958 figures); Joint Economic Committee, Congress of the United States,
People's Republic of China:  An Economic Assessment, Washington, D.C.
1972 (Estimated figures for 1960-1970); China Economic Yearbook, 1981
(foi 1970-1975 figures); Communique issued by the State Statistical
Bureau, Beijing, April 1982 (for 1975-1982 figures).



- 30 -                           Table 1.2
CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Annual Grcwth and Mbdal Split in Passenger Traffic, 1949-83
(Billion passenger-km)
Inland-
Years                         Highways   Railways  waterways  Aviation   Total
The Expansion Period (1950s)
1949                                  0.8        13.0        1.5
1950                                  1.3        21.2        1.5
1952                                  2.3        20.1        2.4
1957                                  8.8        36.1        4.6
1958                                 11.6        40.9        4.6
1960                                 14.6        67.4        4.6
Annual growth over the period (%)        35        13.8         15                   21.6%
Modal split (%)                         17.8Z      72.8%        9.42
The Retrenebment Period (1960s)
1965                                 16.8        47.8        4.74
1970                                 24.0        71.8        7.1
Annual growth over the period (%)       24.3       68.9         6.8
Modal split (%)                        31.2        62.9         5.9
The Re-expansion Period (1970s)
1975                                 37.45       95.3        9.06
1979                                 60.30      121.6       11.40        3.5
Annual growth over the period (%)       12.8        6.4         6.0                   8.4Z
Mbdal split (%)                         31.22      62.9%        5.92
The Modernization Period (1980s)
1980                                 72.9       138.3       12.9         4.0
1981                                 83.9       147.3       13.8         5.0
1982                                 96.4       157.5       14.5         6.0
1983                                110.6       177.6       15.4         5.9
Annual growth 1980-83 (X)               17.0        9.0        8.4                   11.6%
Modal split (X)                         36.0       57.0         5.0         2



CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Design Standards in China
Expressway          Class 1            Class 2            Class 3            Class 4
Plain-   Hilly-   Plain-   Hilly-   Plain-   Hilly-   Plain-   Hilly-   Plain-   Hilly-
hilly   mountain  hilly   mountain  hilly   mountain  hilly   mountain  hilly   mountain
area     area      area     Prea      area     area      area     area      area     area
Number of vehicles
accommodated       ---->25,000-----  --5,000-25S,000--  --2,000-5,000---  -----<2,000-----  ------<200------
Design travel
speed (km/hr)        120       80       100       60        80      40         60      30        40        20
Surface width (m)   2x7.5    2x7.0    2x7.5    2x7.0           9        7         7       6       3.5      3.5       1
Subgrade width (m)      26        23       23        19       12     8.5        8.5      7.5    -------6.5-------
Minimum radius of
horizontal
curves (m)           650      250       400       125      250      60        125       30       60        15
Maximum gradient
(%                     3        5         4        6         5       7          6       8         6        9
Minimum passing
sight distance
(m)                  210      110       160       75       110      40         75      30        40       20       '
WV
Nonsuperelevated
radius of hori-
zontal curve (m)  5,500    2,500    4,000    1,500    2,500        600      1,500     350       600       150
Source:  Technical Standard on Road Engineering, Highway Bureau, Ministry of Communications, Beijing, 1981.



- 32 -                        Table 2.2
CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Pavement Standards
Pavement surfacing        Pavement surfacing material        Vehicle accommodation capacity
(number of vehicles/day)
Highest standard          Asphaltic concrete                 >5,000 (expressway and Class 1
Cement concrete                      roads)
Hot-mix macadam
High standard             Penetration macadam surface        2,000-5,000 (Class 2 roads)
Cold-mix macadam
Bituminous-coated macadam          300-2,000 (Class 3 roads)
Medium standard           Bituminous-lime treatment          50-400 (Class 4 roads)
Graded-aggregate, gravel surface  50-300 (Class 4 roads)
Low standard              Improved earth surface             <50 (rural roads)
Source: Ministry of Communications.



_ 33 -                             Table 2.3
CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
International Comparison of Vehicle Production in 1980 /a
Area
Trucks               Popula-    (sq km)/
Country              Population         Area       Cars      & buses    Total    tion/car    truck
('000 people) ('000 sq km)
China                 1,000,410         9,600    11,940      163,705   175,645    83,786        58.6
(Z of total)                                     (6.8)       (93.2)
India                   680,000       2,974.7    29,183       72,044   101,227    23,301        41.3
(Z of total)                                    (28.8)       (71.2)
Romania                  22,300         237.5    75,020       37,116   112,136        297        6.4
(X of total)                                    (66.9)       (33.1)
TIrkey                   45,217         780.6    43,808       29,001    72,809      1,032       26.9
CX of total)                                    (60.2)       (39.8)
Peru                     17,293       1,285.2     5.808        4,940    10,745      2,977      260.1
(Z of total)                                    (54.0)       (46.0)
ahile                    11,136         741.8    18,015        2,136    20,151        618      347.3
(Z of total)                                    (89.4)       (10.6)
Philippines              47,914         299.7    34,831       32,740    67,571      1,375        9.1
(Z of total)                                    (51.5)       (48.5)
Malaysia                 13,297         329.6    60,582       14,395    74,977        219       23.0
(Z of total)                                    (80.8)       (19.2)
/a Data for China are for 1981.
Source: The Wbrld Automotive Market.



- 34                         Table 2.4
CHI
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Motor Vehicles Manufactured in and Imported into China, 1980-1984
(thousands)
Type                          1980       1981      1982      1983      1984
Domestic Production
Total Vehicles              222.3      175.6    196.2    239.8    (305.0)/a
of which trucks           135.5     108.3      121.8     137.1       u.a.
as Z of total              61.0      62.0       62.0      57.0
Imports
Cars                                    1.4        1.1       5.8
Trucks                       22.0      20.8        7.7       8.4
Dmp trucks                               1.5       1.1       2.3
Chassis with engines                    0.3        0.4       0.9
Total                              24.0       10.3      17.5
/a    Estimated. -The Beijing Review" (March 11, 1985) reports a 27% increase
over 1983 production.
Source: Statstical Yearbook of China 1982, 1983 and 1984.



- 35 -                       Table 2.5
HIGWAY PROjECT
Total Freight Transport Handled by State
and Social Trucks
Freight volume          Freight density      Average distance
(million tons)         (billion ton-km)            (km)
Public   Social            Public    Social    Public       Social
truck    truck   Total     truck      truck     truck       truck
1978         852    2,406    3,258       27.4      44.6      32.1         18.5
1979         816    2,748    3,564       26.8      47.7      32.8         17.4
1980         760    2,060    2,820       25.5      50.9      33.5         24.7
1981         715    2,922    3,637       ?5.3      52.7      35.4         18.0
1982         788    3,004    3,792       30.3      64.6      38.4         21.5
1983        n.a.     n.a.    4,010       33.5      74.9       n.a.         n.a.
Note:  Percentage of truck distribution:  Public trucks   142
Social trucks - 86Z
Source:  Mlnistry of Communications, 1984
China Statistical Yearbook, 1983



- 36 -                        Table 2.6
CHIN~A
HIGTWAY PROJECT
CTC's Vehicle Operating Cost in 1983 /a
Type of vehicle                                  Cost
4-10 ton trucks                                  154
(Y/l,000 ton-km)
Container truck                                 1,245
(Y/1,000 container-km)
Truck-Trailer                                    960
(Y/1,000 ton-hr)
Standard 4-ton truck                          107-167/b
CYI1,000 ton-km)
/a Data may represent planned targets.
/b Ranges as follows: Y 107/1,000 ton-km on Class 1 roads; Y 134 on Class 2
roads; and Y 167 on Class 3 roads.
Note: Statistics are based on CTC's branch office in Tienjin.
Source:  Central Trucking CoDpany.



_ 37 -                       Table 2.7
CIA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Composition of Vehicle Operating Cost: A Comparison
Cost                                 Sichuan                          CTC
composition                             Province       Shanghai        average
Fuel                                      28.9           22.0            15.2
Vehicle repair                            15.2           23.0            17.8
Overbauls                                  4.0            n.a.            9.1
Road maintenance fee                      15.6            7.0            14.0
Tires                                      9.7            7.0            12.7
Labor cost                                 5.6           17.0             3.5
Vehicle depreciation                       5.4            5.0             8.5
Administration and misc.                  15.6           19.0            19.2
Total                            100.0          100.0          100.0
Sources: Sichuan Provincial Transport Office, 1981; Shanghai Transport Office,
1981; and Central Trucking Company, 1983.
Note:   Gasoline cost - Y 0.60/liter
Diesel cost - Y 0.40/liter
Average gasoline consumption - 0.086 - 0.0906 liters/ton-km
Average diesel consumption - 0.065 - 0.73 liters/ton-km



CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
National Road Sections to be Improved or Newly Built
Investment               Forecast Traffic (AADT)
cost /a    Actual                          Annual
(at 1985     traffic    1988         1997    growth
Length               prices:      (1984)   (opening   (After 10  rate
Section No.    From - To                (km)    Standard    Y mln)        (AADT)     year)       years)    (%)    ERR
Shandong
01           Huihe-Majiadian          20.85   Class 2         9.39        726      1,127       2,126       7      19
02           Yancheng-Gaotang         53.20   Class 2        33.31     1,100       1,708       3,222      7       17
Shaanxi
03           Xian-Sanyuan             35.18   Class 1        80.30     3,064       4,758       8,974       7      18   1
w
Anhui
04           Laibang-Baojiahe         35.11   Class 3         7.59        264        429         809       7      23
Fujian
06           Gaotien-Huashanjie       32.45   Class 3        13.41       469         668       1,260       7      37
Sichuan
07           Longtai-Tangba           28.26   Class 3        17.50       507         787       1,485       7      20
Yunnan
08           Yangwu-Honglongehang   21.39   Class 3           9.34        774      1,202       2,267       7      24
Total             226.44                158.69
-  -
/a Includes right-of-way costs and MOC contingencies.
Note: Road Number 05 has been canceled.



Table 3.2
- 39 -                         Page 1 of 2
CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Rural Roads to be Improved or Newly Built
Road     Investment cost/a
Length   class    (at 1985 prices:
Section No.   From - To                      (km)  standard       Y million)      ERR
Zhejiang (01-11)  Total                     261.74                  40.05
01           Deqing-Tongxiangzhouquan      36.00       3           6.61         31
02           Yukangtangqi - Deqlng         17.34       3           3.20         28
03           Lin'antuankou -
Chun'anxiazhong             28.00      4            3.11        16
04           Najian-Jinsbazhuji             4.60       4           0.61         26
05           Pan'anfangqian -
Tiantaihuaqiang              8.82      3            1.37        26
06           Yongjiaxiasbeng -
Jinyunnanxi                 30.98      4            3.23        17
07           Rui'anyaozhuang -
Ouhaiheshangling            10.00      4            1.36        28
08           Qingtiantangqiang -
uIi'anshilong               49.40      3            9.27        22
09           Wenchengshanxi -
Taishunxiahong              40.80      4           5.47         20
10           Yunhedajun - Shwan            21.80      4            3.86        16
11           Qingyuanjianggen -
Shouningkengdi              14.00      4            1.96        15
Anbui (12-16)  Total                        195.63                  23.36
1.2          Jiapeng-Jingzhou              30.00      4            2.67        23
13           Nanyuankou-Shendu             30.02       4           3.06         19
14           Huangbei-Xiaochuan            20.35      4            1.72        18
15           Tangpohe-Qianshan-Yuexi       60.10      3            9.44        34
16           Huanggang-Bailitun            55.16      4            6.47        29
Jiangxi (17-31) Total                       284.30                  41.84
17           Linjia-Fanzhen                10.35      4            1.25        33
18           Wuning-Xinji                  25.75       3           5.46         17
19           Huangshageng-Xixia            12.87      4            2.32        29
20           Yushan-Tongfang               55.78       4           4.45         19
21           Yaoli-Nifengjie               10.40      4            1.57        33
22           Jiaokang-Le'an                38.94       4           5.33         30
23           Yutang-Lujiang                14.40       4           1.41        30
24           Xincheng-Qiusha               16.80       4           3.87        22
25           Wanhe-Potou                   11.60      4            1.78        22
26           Hanxia-Nanlin                  5.60       4           0.73        28
27           Juncun-Ruangtang              23.71       4           3.39         22
28           Ruikeng-Shatianshui            5.00       4           0.72         37
29           Lintan-Guting                 14.00       4           2.18         27
30           Zhuangkuo-Hhiangling          29.80       4           6.01        21
31           Longbu-Tianxin                 9.30       4           1.37         20



- 40 -                        Table 3.2
Page 2 of 2
Road     Investment cost/a
Length   class    (at 1985 prices:
Section No.    From - To                     (km)   standard     Y million)      ERR
Guanxi (32-38) Total                        185.60                  34.60
32           Xindu-Huaiji                  32.80      3            6.85        25
33           Yunbiao-Nayang                18.00      3           3.08         32
34           Tiandong-Zukong               13.80      3            6.24       .18
35           Dishui-Luoxiang               32.00      4           4.66         16
36           Baizhupu-Niutangjie           39.00      4           4.00         20
37           Antai-Dongtou                 13.00      4           2.49         18
38           Chuanshan-Xiangzhou           37.00      3           7.28         20
Sichuan (42-58) Total                       276.34                 59.45
42           Linkou-Miaoxi                 25.74      4           4.24         20
43           Lujiao-Gongtan                15.00      4            1.50        18
44           Yushan-Lianhe                 16.50      4           3.54         17
45           Xiangkou-Baima                25.00      4            6.91        27
46           Fucheng-Yuquan                16.00      4           4.40         18
47           Zhouhe-Wangyu                  5.50      4            1.84        17
48           Sijing-Yuquan                 11.00      4            2.20        16
49           Kuile-Nanbaoshan              16.10      4           4.60         18
50           Minzhi-Minhe                  15.05      4           3.78         16
51           Wudu-Tuanshan                  9.70      4           4.27         21
52           Jinshan-Zhuyuan               12.30      4           2.46         16
53           Mingjing-Sanhekou             30.03      4           5.37         18
54           Yaojia-Jinshan                17.20      4           2.17         17
55           Fenshuiling-Shanhekou         14.41      4           1.68         18
56           Puguang-Fenshuiling           10.03      4           1.42         18
57           Dayuan-Qifo                   25.78      4           5.67         19
58           Yanjing-Tianhuaban            11.00      4           3.40         16
Yunnan (59-62) Total                        168.37                  26.56
59           Mongzi-Bada                   51.52      4           6.61         14
60           Kunluoxian-Nannuoshan         11.55      4           2.07         15
61           Jinghong-Monglun-
Xiaomenglum                70.30       4          12.04        19
62           Mengla-Yaoqu                  35.00      4           5.84         16
Total Length         1,371.98
Total Cost                                    225.86
/a Includes right-of-way costs and MOC's contingencies.
Note: Roads 39, 40 and 41 have been canceled.



-41-                             Table 3.3
CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Training Program
Description                                                                       US$
Training Equipment and Materials                                                  720,000
Audiovisual training aids and laboratory, computer, and other
training equipment for Provincial Transportation Schools (PTS)
in project provinces.
Work Visits of Expatriate Experts to China                                         100,000
Short visits to selected MOC Rigbway Colleges and PTS by
expatriate experts to upgrade relevant curricula.
Books and Technical Publications                                                   48,000
Essential books and technical publications for MOC, HPDI, HSRI,
and PTD/PTS of project provinces.
Training Abroad (Fellowships) /a                                                1,262,000
- Short courses on teaching methodology for about 20 teachers-
lecturers of PTS of project provinces.                                        160,000
- Practical secondments for about 24 MOC senior engineers and
PTD design and construction technical managers connected with
the project for about 6 months.                                               440,000
- Training courses and practical secondments on project manage-
ment, accounting, planning (economic) and statistical infor-
mation for about 20 HOC and PTD staff for about 3 months.                     150,000
- HPDI and Provincial HPDIs. Courses and practical secondments
for survey and design of highways and bridges, for 14
engineers for about 2 months.                                                  90,000
- HSRI and Provincial HSRIs. About 20 staff to attend courses
related to their respective research programs for about about
3 months.                                                                     150,000
- Short courses on engineering management, subgrade and pavement
technology, aerial survey, etc., for about 22 PTD staff for
about 3-6 months.                                                             240,000
- Advanced courses /b for interpreters from MOC and PTDs.                        32,000
Total                                                                  2,130,000
/a Specific number of trainees and duration of courses, secondments, etc., will depend on
availability of courses and actual cost of programs.
/b Some of these courses may be conducted in China.



- 42 -                         Table 3.4
CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Estimated cumulative           Disbursement
IBRD/IDA fiscal year             disbursements            profile of Regional
and semester             US$ million        Z        highway projects (Z)
1986
December 31, 1985               2.0            3
June 30, 1986                   9.0           12                   7
1987
December 31, 1986             21.0            29
June 30, 1987                 34.0            88                  22
1988
December 31, 1987              50.0           69
June 30, 1988                  64.0           88                 42
1989
December 31, 1988              67.0           92
June 30, 1989                  69.0           95                  63
1990
December 31, 1989              70.0           96
June 30, 1990                  71.0           98                 80
1991
December 31, 1990              72.6          100                 92
June 30, 1991
1992
December 31, 1991
June 30, 1992                                                    100



- 43                         ANNEX-
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
MOC Highway Institutes
The Highway Planning and Design Institute
1.        Located in Beijing with a staff of more than 240 engineers and tech-
nicians, of whom some 60% are senior engineers and specialists, the Institute
has, for 30 years, pLayed a leading role in the planning, design and manage-
ment of the highway system in China.
2.        The principal responsibilities of the Institute are:
(a) Preparation of Master Plans for the Highway Networks. This covers
long- and short-term planning of the national highway network, over-
all guidance in planning of the provincial highway network and pre-
paration of programs for the improvement and reconstruction of the
existing national highway network. Some 133 permanent traffic
counting stations and 3,000 semi-permanent traffic counting stations
have been set up to provide data which are combined with the find-
ings of studies on key industries such as agriculture and industry
to develop patterns for highway transport.
(b) Preparation of feasibility studies for key highway projects as well
as budgetary estimates for highway projects.
(c) Preparation of national design standards for highways and bridges
such as:
-    Code of Practice for Site Reconnaissance and Survey of Highway
Bridges;
-    Standard Specifications for Design of Flexible Pavements;
-    Standard Specifications for Design of Concrete Pavements;
-    Design Specifications for Roads in Factory and Mining Areas;
and
-    Standard Specifications for the Design of Highway Bridges and
Culverts.
(d) Preparation of standard plans for bridges and culverts.
(e) Design of major bridges and expressways.
(f) Design of highway industry buildings, automobile repair shops,
container and long-distance bus terminals.



ANNEX 1
- 44 -                       Page 2 of 3
The Highway Scientific Research Institute
3.        Located in Beijing, the Institute has a total staff of 485 of whom
about half are scientists and engineers. about 70Z of the scientists and
engineers have more than 15 years practical experience and 22 are senior
engineers and researchers.  Facilities include laboratories and experimental
areas for bridge structures, motor vehicle operation, civil engineering
materials, etc. Construction of a new building for experiments started in
1983 and will be completed in 1986 to provide an additional 15,200 sq m of
space. On completion, it is intended to rearrange the Laboratories and
introduce more advanced experimentaL capabilitv. The Institute provides
technical and scientific advice to help formulate, develop and implement
government policy on highways and highway transport and is the main scientific
and technological base for highway transportation in China.
4.        The Institute's main tasks are:
-    to help formuLate highway transport policy and the highway
scientific and technological development program;
-    to coordinate scientific research work on highway transport in
the country;
-    to undertake research and development related to planning,
design, construction and maintenance, highway structures
including bridges and tunnels, engineering materials, road
construciton and maintenance equipment, traffic engineering,
computer applications and the operation, maintenance and energy
efficiency of motor vehicles;
-    to serve as a medium for the evaluation and introduction of
advanced or new technology on highway transport; and
-    to foster graduate students and in-house expertise in
specialized aspects of highway transport.
5.        The Institute's major research tasks over the next five years would
be on:
(a) technology concerned with the qualitative evaluation of existing
paved highways and bridges in order to prepare a strengthening,
rehabilitation and maintenance program for these facilities;
(b) low-cost solutions to road congestion near cities;
(c) identification of optimum axLe loads for China;
(d) prevention of road traffic accidents;
(e) design of semi-rigid base layers under asphaltic eonrcto surfacing;



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
(f)  the potential for preparing high grade asphaltic concrete pavemenc,
using locaily produced asphaltic cement;
(g) the use of cement concrete highway pavement;
(h) the compaction of highway foundation layers in relation to various
soil and moisture characteristics in order to improve technology for
constructing highways under various conditions such as frost,
desert, morass, saline, etc.;
{i)  technology related to the management of expressways;
(i) the geometric structure of highways in order to formulate a rational
basis for classification and for design criteria;
(k) bridge hydrology;
(l) technology related to the quality control of concrete;
rm) special concretes; and
(n) soil stabilization.
The First Survey and Design Institute
6.        Locatied in Xian, Shaanxi Province, the Institute was founded in the
early days of the Peoplets Republic as the Northwest Design Company. The
Institute, which is connected to the China Road and Bridge Engineering
Company, has a total staff of 305, comprising 5 high-level civil engineers,
104 civil and management engineers, 67 assistant engineers, 10 technicians and
about 119 university and middle school graduates.
7.        The Institute's main tasks are the survey and design of major high-
ways, large- and medium-size highways, bridges and tunnels, urban highways,
rehabiLitation works, as well as geological and site investigations including
the location of aquifers and the preparation of technical feasibility
studies. Since its founding, the Institute has surveyed and designed high-
ways, bridges, tunnels and other engineering projects in China as well as in
Asia and Africa. Recent major projects in China include the Qinghai-Tibet
Highway (Roof-of-the-World Highway); the Tianshan Highway crossing the
Tianshan mountain range; the Luanchi Highway in the Yanshan Region; and high-
grade highways for the Zhunger coal fields and the Beijing-Tiangin-Tanggu
Expressway. Major bridges surveyed and designed include: Wujiang Bridge,
Gezhentan Yellow River Bridge, the Lanzhou Yellow River Bridge and Jiangsu
Guan River Bridge. Major tunnels surveyed and designed include the 1,000
meter long Yuxi Molegai Tunnel at 3,400 meter altitude on the Tianshan Highway
in a geologically complex area, and four tunnels on the Luanchi Highway beyond
Yantai. The Institute was also concerned with the proposed Nanjing-Hangzhou-
Ningho and the Guangzhou-Shenshen-Zhuhai expressways. Overseas, the Institute
has surveyed and designed about 1,520 km of highways in Vietnam, Somalia,
Iraq, Yemen Arab Republic and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen.



-46-                       ANNEX 2
CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Significance of Proposed National Road Investments
Road
Province     number      Class                    Justification of choice
Shandong     01          2             - Completes the links between Bingzhou City to
Jinan, the provincial city of Shandong. It
will contribute to the industrial develop-
ment of this area.
02         2              - Completes the links from Jinan to Hebei
Province, and has junctions with several
other trunk roads. It will contribute
immensely to industrial development.
Shaanxi      03          1             - Links Xian-Sanyuan to Tongehuan and
Shaanbei, an important coal mining and
industrial area of Shaanxi. This area is
called the "Black Belt of Shaanxi."
Anhui        04          3             - To transport approximately 100,000 tons of
agricultural products between Laibang and
Baojiahe counties. It is a hilly area close
to Hubei Province.
Fujian       06          3             - At the border of Fujian and Jiangxi Provin-
ces. This road is linked to the economic
development of the mountainous province of
Guangfeng county.
Sichuan      07          3             - Completes the links from Chengdu, capital
city of Sichuan, to Chongquing, the most
important industrial city of the province.
The population density and the level of
development of the two cities are as high as
that of the Beijing and Tianjin area.
Yunnan       08          3             - To reduce the distance between Suijiang and
Xinshizhen by 89 km. It will make a major
contribution to the agricultural economies
in these counties.
Note: Road No. 05 has been canceled.



ANNEX 3
47                         Page I of 2
CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Provincial Profiles
Province                           Geographical and economic conditions
Shandong    -  Located in the northeast, with 65% of its area swampy and 35%
hilly. Flooding from the Yellow River reduces the harvest, and
it was not self-sufficient in agricultural products until
1970. There are some coal mines, gold mines, iron ore and
tin. Its industrial products are cement, cotton textiles,
chemical fertilizers and machines.
Shaanxi     -  Located in the middle range of the Yeilow River with 45Z of its
area highland, 35% mountainous and 202 plain.  Agriculture and
irrigation have long been developed, buc there stiLl is a
serious problem of land erosion. Mineral resources are
abundant, especially coal in the Tongchuan area to che north of
the Weihe River, in the area called the "Black Belt of
Shaanxi." This is also an industrial center for Shaanxi.
Light industries are textile and paper mills. Heavy industries
are steel, machine building, cement, chemical fertilizers,
etc. The proposed national road link will pass through this
industrial center.
Anhui       -  The Chang Jiang (Yangtze River) passes through the southern
half of the province. An irrigation system has been well
developed over a long time. The land is very fertile even
though 70t of the area is mountainous and hilly. There is also
an abundance of iron ore and coal. However, industry has
developed only in the past 30 years and comprises food
processing, paper products and chemical industries.
Sichuan     -  The province, in the southwest, has long been important
economically, culturally, militarily and politically. In terms
of politics, it has been the passage leading the Han people to
the tribal people in the west. In terms of economics it is
very fertile Land for tropical plants, particularly cotton, oil
seed and sugarcane. Industrial development started relatively
early, beginning with silk weaving. Now there are machine,
chemical, fertilizer and wood processing industries. There is
also a vehicle manufacturing plant in Chongqing. The
population density in the two major cities, Chengdu and
Chongqing, is comparable to that of Beijing and Tianjin.
However, because of the difficult topography characterized by
high mountains and deep valleys, transportation investment
costs in this province are high.



ANNEX 3
- 48 -                     Page 2 of 2
Province                           Geographical and economic conditions
Fujian      -  Located on the southeastern coast of China with 90Z of its area
mountainous. Main economic activities are cea plantations and
forestry.  There are also some mineral resources.  Industrial
development started only after 1950, with steel, textile,
paper, timber and sugar refining industries.
Yunnan      -  Located on the southern border of China close to Burma, Lao PDR
and Vier Nam. It has many tribal people. 93% of the cotal
area is mountainous and highlands and only 6% is cultivable
land. The main economic activity is forestry. There are large
amounts of tin ore. IndustriaL development is stilL at an
early stage.
Zheijiar'g   -  Located on the east coast with 70% of its areas mountainous and
30X valley. It is a very fertiLe area with good irrigation
developed since the second century; 80% of the cultivated area
is irrigated. Industrial development began at the beginning of
the twentieth century. It was very famous for textile, paper,
tea and distilling industries. During the past 30 years, it
has introduced heavy industries such as chemicals and machine
building. The transport sector is also one of the relatively
well developed sectors. This is one of the richest provinces
in China.
Jii;1gxi    -  Located south of the Chang Jiang with 70Z of its area
mountainous and hilly; land erosion is serious, and drought
common. However, it is the most important tungsten ore area in
China. It is also very famous for ceramic work. Some heavy
industries started after the 1950s but are not yet well
developed.
Guangxi     -  On the southern boundary of China and the autonomous region for
the Juan tribe which is the largest minority in China. The
topography is 85% mountainous and 15% plain. Agriculture pro-
ducts are paddy, tropical plants, timber and marine products.
There is an abundance of natural resources, the most important
being manganese. Light industry is being developed, mainly
sugar refining, canned food products and handicrafts.
Development is still slow, and it is one of the lowest income
provinces of the country.



ANNEX 4
~ 49              ~              Page 1 of 2
CHEIN
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Implementation
Start          Complete
Part A - National Road Construction and Improvement
-  Prequalification of contractors including Bank review   Mar 5, 1985        May 31, 1985
-  Bid period                                                Jun 10, 1985     Aug 31, 1985
- Receive and open bids, evaluation and receipt by
Bank of copy of Evaluation Report and
Government recommendations                              Sep 1, 1985      Dec 20, 1985
-  Appoint supervision staff                                                  Jan 01, 1986
- Select consultants for organization of supervision
of works and award contracts                                             Jan 20, 1986
-  Construction of national road links                       Mar 1, 1986      Jun 30, 1988
Part B - Rural Road Construction and Improvement
-  Sign contracts with County Governments                                     Sep 30, 1985
-  Set up Project Management Unit                                             Oct 15, 1985
-  Appoint supervision staff                                                  Nov 01, 1985
-  Construction/i=provement of rural roads                   Nov 15, 1985     Nov 15, 1987
Part C - The Provision of Computer Aided Design and Engineering (CADE)
and Other Computer Equipment for the HPDI and the HSRI
-  HPDI and HSRI prepare functional requirement study                         Jul 31, 1985
-  Consultant review of functional requirement study        Aug 1, 1985       Sep 30, 1985
-  Prepare specifications and documents                      Oct 1, 1985      Nov 30, 1985
-  Invite bids from selected international suppliers                          Dec 15, 1985
- Evaluation of bids and receipt by Bank of report
on evaluation with Government recommendation           Mar 15, 1986      Apr 15, 1986
- Carry out bench tests of equipment selected for
consideration                                          May 01, 1986      May 31, 1986
-  Evaluate bench tests                                                       Jun 15, 1986
-  Negotiate with selected supplier                         JuL 01, 1986      Jul 31, 1986
-  Carry out acceptance testing of equipment                                  Sep 01, 1986



ANNEX 4
~ 50 -                           Page 2 of 2
Implementation
Start          Complete
Part D - Provision of Site Investigation and Laboratory
Testing Equipment for the HPDI and the HSRI
- Prepare equipment list, specifications and bid
documents and submit to Bank for review                                  Oct 31, 1985
-  Invite bids from selected international suppliers                          Nov 15, 1985
-  Evaluation of bids                                        Jan 15, 1986     Jan 30, 1986
- Receipt by Bank of report on evaluation with
recommendation for award                                                 Feb 15, 1986
-  Award contracts                                                            Mar 01, 1986
-  Delivery of equipment.                                   Apr 01, 1986      Sep 31, 1986
Part E - Consulting Services
-  Assistance in supervision of construction                Nov 01. 1985      Nov 15, 1988
- Assistance in CADE equipment procurement including
function requirement study, evaluation of              Jul 31, 1985      May 01, 1986
proposals, testing, etc.                                                 (part-time)
-  Assistance in studies, seminars and workshops            Jan 01, 1985      Jan 01, 1988
(part-time)
Part F - Studies by HSRI
-  Paved road evaluation study for the                      Jul 1, 1986       Dec 31, 1987
preparation of paved road strengthening and
rehabilitation
- Study to identify a low cost solution
to road congestion near cities                         Jul 1, 1986       Dec 31, 1987
-  Road traffic safety study                                Jul 1. 1986       Dec 31, 1987
Part G - Staff Training
-  Selection of trainees                                                      Aug 31, 1985
-  Placement of trainees                                    Sep 30. 1985      Sep 30, 1986
-  Training                                                 Continuous
-  Workshoos                                                As needed
-  Seminars                                                 As needed



ARMEX 5
-51-                               Page 1
CEfA
HIGHW   PROJECr
Project Monitoring Indices
Actual as Reason for
Esti-             Z of    difference  Action to
Project Component                           mated  Actual  estimated   (if any) be taken
National Road Construction
and IMprovement
Ca) Contract awards (dates)
(b) Earthworks completed (m3)
(c) Paving completed (km)
(d) Culverts (number)
(e) Bridges (number)
(f) Construction work completed (date)
(g) Maintenance certificate issued
(date)
(h) Completion certificate issued
(date)
(i) Final cost
Supervision of Construction (i/months)
Rural Road Construction and Improvement
(a)  Contracts signed (dates-
(b) Earthworks completed (in)
Cc) Pavement completed (km)
Cd) Culverts (number)
(e) Bridges (number)
(f) Construction work completed (date)
(g) Final cost
Consultant Services
Supervision of Construction
(a) Consultants selected
(b) Consultants start work
(c) Supervision organization, proce-
dures and systems agreed by MOC
and Bank
(d) Supervision staff appointed
(e) Office and laboratory buildings
constructed
(f) Laboratory equipment in place
(g) Supervision of construction in
progress



ANNE 5
- 52 -                           Page 2
Actual as Reason for
Estl-             Z of    difference  Action to
Project Component                           mated  Actual  estimated   (if any) be taken
Consultant Services (cont'd)
StudiesWobrkshops
CADE and Other Computer and Laboratory
Equipment for HPDI and HSRI, and Road
Maintenance Equipment
(a) Prepare equipment list and speci-
fications
(b) Complete functional requirement
study on computer equipment
(c) Invite bids from selected interna-
tional suppliers for computer
equipment
gd) Invite bids for road maintenance
equipment
(e)  Evaluate bids and send government
report on evaluation to Bank
gf) Make bench tests of computer
equipment selected for consid-
eration
(g) Evaluate bench tests of computer
equipment selected for consid-
eration
(h) Evaluate bid for road maintenance
equipment
vi) Negotiate with selected computer
equipment suppliers for soft-
ware, etc.
(j) Carry out acceptance tests of
computer equipment
(k) Delivery of laboratory equipment
HSRI Research Program
(a) Program implementation
(b) Studies
(i) Paved road evaluation
(ii) Road congestion
(iii)  Road safety
Staff Training
(a) Selection of trainees
(b)  Placement of trainees
(c) Training
(d) Curriculum review



ANNEX 6
_ 53 -                       Page 1
CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of the Xian-Sanyuan National Road
Road-Route and Function
1.        The road will be the most direct route from Xian, :he capical of
Shaanxi Province, to Sanyuan where it will connect with the existing Class 2
road to Tongchuan, an important industrial area in Shaanxi. The construction
of this road is divided into two sections. One is a 8.6 km section from Xian
to Zhangjiabao including part of the ring road around Xian City. (This
section is not included in the Bank-financed project, but is being built
separately by Xian municipality.) The other is a 35.18 km section from
Zhangjiabao to Sanryuan which is included in the project.
2.        This section of national road will be the first 'Class 1' road in
Shaanxi Province and is important in three ways. First, it will improve
access to coal mining areas in Shaanbei (northern Shaanxi Province) and to the
industrialized area around Tongchuan. Second, it will fill in important gaps
in national roads 210 and 211. National road 210 is a major north-south axis
starting from Baotou in Nei Mongol Province, and crossing Shaanxi, Sichuan and
Cuizhou Provinces to reach Nanning in Guangxi Province. Road 211 originates
at Xian, extending northwest to Yunchuan. Third, this road will provide
access to the new international airport which is planned to open by 1990. An
access road from the airport will join the project road north of the Wei River
bridge.
3.        In addition to providing a main link into the national network, the
new road will also serve the industrial and agricultural development of five
major cities and towns, i.e., Xian, Sanyuan, Tongchuan, Jingyang and Kaoling
(Table 1). The industries which will benefit are textiles around Xian, coal
and cement in Tongchuan and Sanyuan, and agriculture in Jingyang and Kaoling.



ANNEX 6
-54                             Page 2
Table 1: KEY CHARACTERISTICS OF THE XIAN-SANYUAN
ROAD INFLUENCE AREA
Xian     Sanyuan   Tongchuan   Jingyang  Kaoling
City     county        City      county   county
Total Area (sq km)                2,441.0    569.0       2,204.0     792.0      294.0
Cultivated land ('000 Mu)         1,635.5    562.0         959.6     734.5      305.0
Population ('000)                 2,822.5    305.5         603.3     376.8      177.8
Total Value of Industry and       5,196.9    154.1         462.9     159.3       75.1
Agriculture Product (Y mln)
Of which:
Industry                      4,821.5      79.4       403.7       54.1       21.3
Agriculture                     375.4      74.7         59.3     105.1       53.8
Per capita output (Y mln)         1,841.2    504.4         767.3     422.8      422.4
Existing civilian vehicles
(No.)                          20,020.0       n.a.    2,610.0      319.0      181.0
Existing tractors (No.)           7,928.0  1,492.0           n.a.  1,216.0      744.0
Motorable roads (km)              1,035.0    620.0         542.0     895.0      273.0
Road density (km/'000 km2)          424.0  1,090.0         246.0   1,130.0      929.0
Traffic
4.        Present Situation.  At present there is no direct route from Xian to
Tongchuan. The two existing alternatives, one in the east and one in the
west, are 13 km and 15 km respectively longer than the proposed road. A
railway line also follows the western alignment, crossing the Wei River at
Xianyang. The roads carry 88% of the passenger traffic between Xian and
Tongcnuan while the railway carries about 75% of the freight; its capacity is
saturated. After completion of the project, the distance from Xian to
Tongchuan will only be 112 km versus 158 km by railway. Besides savings in
time and vehicle operating costs for the shorter distance, congestion on the
existing roads will be reduced. Traffic on the existing roads is already very
heavy and is increasing with the present high economic growth. It reaches
3,980 AADT east of Xian and 3,736 AADT west of Xian, decreasing to 1,223 and
2,004 north of the Jing &nd the Wei Rivers. (The figures are only for
motorized vehicles.) According to six traffic count stations, traffic growth
in this area averaged 9% in 1983. (The six stations are Huokou and Yaozian on
national road 210, Weihe bridge, Potou, Yunyang and Tunhuo on national road
211.) Congestion was also particularly serious there due to the traffic-mix
of slow and fast moving vehicles.



55  -                         ANNEX 6
Page 3
5.        Anticipated Future Traffic.  The anticipated traffic on the project
road comes from three main sources: (a) traffic diverted from national roads
210 and 211, Local traffic. and traffic diverted from the Xian-Tongchuan
railway; (b) traffic generated from newly developed industrial and agricuL-
tural activities in the area, incLuding the new cement plant project in
Yaoxian; and (c) traffic from the new Xianyang international airport. ro
determine the required capacity of the road, all traffic was converted to a
car equivalent, using the conversion factor of traffic moving on 50Z flat
land, 50Z hilly land. Based on an origin-destination survey done Ln July-
August 1984, it is estimated that traffic on the proposed road wouLd be
equivalent to 10,761 car AADT in 1984 (Table 2). Assuming a 9% p.a. arowth
rate, MADT in 1988 would be equivalent to 13,936 cars and would require a 4-
lane road.



- 56-                                            ANNEX 6
Page 4
Table 2: ANTICIPATED TRAFFIC CAPACITY IN TERMS OF CAR EQUIVALENT (1984)
Conversion                                       Jingyang      Yong-le station
-       factors to                    Gengzhen station    station           between
car equivalent      Total      on road 210       on road 211   Xian to Sanyuan
Motorized Vehicles (excluding tractors)
- small truck            (2.0) /a              (250)/b 500        (23)/b  46    (118)/b  236
- medium truck           (3.0)               (1,670) 5,010       (488) 1,464    (384)  1,156
- large truck            (4.0)                 (213)   852        (52)   208      (72)    288
- small passenger car   (1.0)                  (200)   200         78)    78      (65)      65
- large passenger car   (3.0)                  (184)   552        (35)   105      (30)      90
- truck trailer          (5.0)                 (225) 1,125        (29)   145    (148)    740
Total 'in car equivalent)                          8,239             2,046            2,511
Diversion factor (Z)                                  73.3%             20.6%              50%
Expected traffic on riew road    7,716.16          6,039.2             421.5          1,255.5
Tractors
- small                  (2.0)                 (133)   266        (51)   102    (374)    748
- large                  (3.0)                 (179)   537       (106)   318    (123)    369
Total (in car equivalent)                             803               420           1,117
Diversion factor (Z)                                  19.4%'             7.7%              80Z
Expected traffic on new road    1,081.7               155.8              32.3           893.6
Man & Animal Drawn Carts  (3.0)                  (141)   423        (54)   162    (213)    639
Diversion factor (%)                                     0%                0%             1002
Expected traffic on new road         639                  0                 0              639
Bicycle                    (0.5)               (2,950) 1,475       (804)   402  (2,649) 13,245
Diversion factor (X)                                     0%                OX            100%
Expected diversion to new road  1,324.5                   0                 0         1,324.5
Grand Total                   10,761.36
/a Figures in parentheses are car equivalent factors of vehicles moving on 50% flat land and
50% hilly land.
/b Figures in parentheses are the absolute number of traffic counted by each origin-desti-
nation survey station in 1984.



ANNEX 6
_57 -                           Page 5
Economic Evaluation
6.        Capital Cost.  Table 3 shows the derivation of economic costs
starting from financial costs and applying either CIF prices of traded goods
or conversion factors for non-traded goods.
Table 3: Adjusted Economic Cost on Xian-Sanyuan National Road
(million Yuan)
Financial     Economic      Conversion        Adjusted
Components           cost          cost /a       factors        economic cost
Design Cost               1.20            1.20         4.00 /b             4.80
Land                      9.54 Ic         9.54         1.00                9.54
Construction Cost        74.96 _7        74.12         0.97               72.42
Labor       (12%)       9.00            9.00         0.50 /b             4.50
Materials
- Cement    (7%)        5.25            5.14         1.00                5.14
- Timber    (42)        3.00            2.97         1.00                2.97
- Steel      (5%)       3.75            3.67         1.00                3.67
- Bitumen  (12%)        9.00            8.64         1.00                8.64
Equipment  (22%)       16.49           16.49
- domestic (50%)        8.25            8.25         1.34               11.05
- foreign  (50%)        8.25            8.25         1.00                8.25
P.O.L.      (12Z)       9.00            9.00         1.00 /e             9.00
Overhead   (1OZ)        7.50            7.50         1.00                7.50
Profit     (lIZ)        8.25            8.16         1.00                8.16
Mis.         (5%)       3.54            3.54         1.00                3.54
Total                85.70           84.86         1.02               86.76
/a  Economic cost is net of duty and taxes.  For the four traded commodities,
cement, timber, steel and bitumen, the prices are based on recent import
contracts and refLect CIF prices.
/b  A conversion factor of 4.00 is used for works that require highly skilled
manpower and 0.50 for unskilled labor.
/c  The financial cost of land including funds for relocation of the displaced
population and removal of electricity poles.
/d  10% physical contingency is included.
/e  In 1984 the Chinese Government increased the diesel price by about 30%,
which made the domestic price reflect the international price.



AINEX 6
- 58-                            Page 6
7.        Other Costs.  The road requires routine maintenance every year and
periodic maintenance every ten years. The routine maintenance cost is esti-
mateI at Y 4,000/km for a 4-lane paved road, and periodic maintenance is 10%
of the construction cost. Maintenance cost reduction on existing roads is
expected to be small and has been omitted. (All national roads in this
project use the same costing method.)
8.        Benefits and Internal Economic Rate of Return.  The principal
benefits of this road are attributed to the transport cost saving due to the
shorter distance (45Z) and road improvement (28Z). Other benefits are time
saving, road safety, and congestion reduction on the old road. ln order to
calculate the transport cost saving, the anticipated traffic volume for 1984
has been converted into an equivalent number of trucks. Based on the origin-
destination survey, some 3,064 AADT (motorized vehicles excluding tractors)
could be expected to use the Xian-Sanyuan road in 1984:  66% diverted from
national road 210; 4% from national road 211; 14% local traffic, and 16Z
diverted from the railway (Table 4).
Table 4:  EXPECTED TRAFFIC ON XIAN-SANYUAN ROAD:  A DERIVATION FROM THE
ORIGIN-DESTINATION SURVEY (1984)
Total    Gengszhen    Jingyang    Yong-le station    Traffic
diver-    station       station        between           diverted
sion   on road 210  on road 211  Xian to Sanyuan  from railway
Motorized Vehicles (excluding
tractors)
Small truck          (1.0)/a                    250           23             118
Medium truck         (1.0)                    1,670          488             384
Large truck          (1.0)                      213           52              72
Small passenger car (0.5)                       200           78              65
Large passenger car (1.0)                       184           35              30
Truck trailer        (1.5)                      225           29             148
Total (no. of vehicles)                    2,742          705             817
Total (in standard vehicles)               2,754         680              859
Diversion factor (Z)                           73.3         20.6            50.0
Expected diversion to new road   3 064        2 019          140             429             476
2 of total                                      6io o)4M                                    (1i6)
/a Figures in parentheses are truck equivalent conversion factors.



ANNEX 6
- 59 -                          Page 7
9.        Traffic growth is estimated to be 9Z p.a. between 1984 and 1988, a
one-time increase of 10% in 1988 to account for traffic generated by the road,
and 12% p.a. from 1988 to 1990 due to che opening of the new Xianyang inter-
national airport and full operation of the industrial and agricuLtural p:oj-
ects being developed. After 1990, traffic growth is assumed to stabilize at
6X p.a. The resulting traffic by year is shown in Table 5.
Table 5: ANTICIPATED TRAFFIC ON XIAN-SANYUAN ROAD (1984-2000)
No. of motorized      Growth
Year                    vehicles          rate (Z)
1984                      3,064       }
1985                      3,349       }
1986                      3,640       }   9
1987                      3,968       }
1988                4,325 + 432/a    }
1989                      5,329       }   12
1990                      5,968       }
1991                      6,326       }
1992                      6,706       }
1993                      7,108       1
1994                      7,534       }
1995                      7,986           6
1996                      8,466       }
1997                      8,974       }
1998                      9,512       }
1999                     10,083       1
2000                     10,688       1
/a Normal increase 9% plus 10Z increase for the opening year.
10.       Benefits are calculated in Table 6; the method of estimation is as
follows:
(a) The annual transport cost saving due to the shorter distance
represents the savings for all vehicles that would have traveled on
the extra length of the oLd road with the old VOC if the new shorter
road had not been constructed. This is based on the annual traffic
volume (AADT x 365), the difference in length between the old and
new roads, the VOC for the old road, the average load, and the
conversion of all vehicle types into the AADT of standard trucks.
(b) The annual transport cost saving due to road improvement represents
the savings of all vehicles that would travel on the new road with
the lower VOC. This is based on the annual traffic volume, the new



ANNEX 6
-60 -                           Page 8
road length, and the difference in VOC between the old and new
roads, the average load and the conversion factor.
(c) Time savings for freight (or for passengers) represents the value of
time of freight (or passengers) that would have been spent on the
old road with its congestion and stow moving traffic, if the new
road had not been built. This is derived from the annual voLume of
freight (or passenger) traffic, average hours saved, and opportunitv
cost of time for freight (or passengers).
(d) The benefit from road safety represents the financial value of the
reduction in road accidents based on the number of road accidents
avoided and the cost of each accident.
(e) Congestion reduction represents the contribution of the new road to
relieve the congestion on some sections of the old road. It is the
annual traffic remaining on the old road, and the VOC reduction
resulting from congestion reLief on the previously congested
sections.
11.       The total benefit for the opening year of the road is 9.7 million
yuan which is 11% of the construction cost. The net benefit flow yields an
economic rate of return (ERR) of 18%.
12.       Sensitivity and Risk Analysis.  The main risks of this road are:
lower traffic growth and construction cost overrun. The sensitivity of the
ERR to these factors and to the value of these has been tested with the
following results:
ERR
Best Estimate                                               18
Smaller Traffic Growth
- Traffic growth reduced to 7% from 1989-2000               17
- Traffic growth reduced to 7% from 1985-2000               15
Investment Cost Overrun
- 20% cost increase                                         15
- 20% cost increase and traffic growth
reduced to 7% from 1985-2000                              12
Opportunity Cost of Time Saved
- Decrease by 50%                                           16
- Decrease by 100%                                          14



Table 6t Economic Analysis of Xian-Sanyuan National Road
Parameteres 
- --sotert          45.81
Road length (old)             (km)     = L0                                 (1) TCS due to shorter distence        . Traffic volumn*365*LD*CO*AL
Road length (new)   34.46   (km)       * LN                                 (2) TCS due to road Improvement        a Traffio volunn*365*LK*CD*AL
Ave length diff.    11.35   (km)       , LD                                 (3) Time saving of freigth             * Freigth traffic*365*TS*TVF
VOC on old road      0.134   (Y/t-km) = CO                                  (4) Time saving of passenger           = Passenger traffio*365*TS*TVP
VOC on new road      0.107   (Y/t-km) * CH                                  (5) Road safety                        = AC*Pao
Cost diff.         0.027   (Y/t-km) - CD                                  (6) Congestion reduction on old road = Remaining Traffic *365*CRD*CSO
Conv.faotor          0.943             . CF
Tonnage(stand.ve)    4.36   (ton)    - TV
Load factor          0.644               LF
Average load         2.808   (ton)    * AL
Ave time saving      0.615   (hr)      * TS
Time value(fr.)       2.05   (Y/.hr/pa)= TVF
Time value(pass.)   0.327   (Y/hr/ve). TVP
Acoident Reduce        187   (case)   a AC
Prioe of aooident    2430   (Y/case) a Pao
VUC red.on old Rd   0.003   (Y/t-km) a CR0
Cong..ec.(old rd)       18   (km)      . CSO
Traf.Vol   Cons.Cost  Dist.TCS   RdImp.TCS  PasaTrans  TimeSav.P  Fr.Trans   TlmeSav.F  RoadSafe   OldRdTraf  CongesRed  Net Ben.   ^
(AADT)     ('000Y)    ('oooY)    ('oOoY)   (OOOP/yr)   (OOOY)   (OOOV/yr)   ('OOOY)    ('ODOY)    (AADT)           ('000y)    ('000Y)
1984           3064        4800                                                                                                               -4800
1985            3340      14453                                                                                                              -14453
1986            3640      28907                                                                                                              -28907
1987           3968       28907                                                                                                              -28907
1988           4758       14453        3708        2268       5332        1072        1637       2064         454       5377         106      -4781
1989           5329         141        8306        5081       5972        1201       1833        2311         454       5753         113       17326
1990            5968        141        9302        5691       6688        1345       2053        2589         454       6156         121       19362
1991           6326         141        9860       6032        7090        1426       2176        2744         454       6587         130       20506
1992           6706         141       10452       6394        7515        1511       2307        2909         454       7048         139      21719
1993           7108         141       11079        6778       7966        1602       2445        3083         454       7542         149      23004
1994           7534         141       11744       7184        8444        1698       2592        3268         454       8069         159      24367
1995           7986         141       12449       7615        8951        1800       2748        3464         454       8634         170      25812
1996           8466         141       13195       8072        9488        1908       2913        3672         454       9239         182      27344
1997           8974         141       13987        8557      10057        2023       3087        3892         454       9885         195       28967
1998           9512         696       14826       9070       10660        2144       3272        4126         454      10577         208      30133
1999          10083         141       15716       9614       11300        2272       3469        4373         454      11318         223      32513
2000           10688        141       16659       10191      11978        2409        3677       4636         454      12110         239       34447
IRR        18 %
Ia-



ANNE 7
- 62 -                       page '
CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of the Fucheng-Yuguan Rural Road
A. Background
1.        The road will be located in Ya-an Prefecture, southwest of Chengdu,
the capital city of Sichuan Province. The road will be a Class 4 mountainous
road running along the Jing River passing four villages: Fucheng, Shize,
Fengyu and Yuquan. The road is 16 km long, with an influence area covering
about 290 sq km and a population of 10,000. The area has abundant natural
resources: coal, timber, bamboo, iron ore and asbestos. However, the present
production of these resources is limited to the amount that local households
can consume, because the area is served by only a track which is impassabLe by
motorized vehicles. Transport is mainly by porters and the transport cost is
too high to couercialize the resources.  Thus, besides improving agriculturaL
production, opening of the road will contribute greatLy to mining and forestry
in the area.
2.        In 1983, out of the 15,500 tons produced in the influence area of
the road, a surplus of some 3,000 tons, including 2,000 tons of timber, was
marketed (details in Table 2). Without improvement of the road, production
would continue to grow slowly at 3-4Z p.a. and the market tonnage would reach
3,500 tons in 1987, when the road would be opened and 4,800 tons ten years
later. With the road, however, production of coal, timber and bamboo will
increase greatly as the reduced transport cost will make production economic-
ally justified and attractive.
B. Economic Cost and Benefit of the Road
Capital Cost
3.        The adjusted economic cost of this road is Y 4.25 million.  The
derivation of economic costs starting from financial costs and applying either
CIF prices of traded goods or conversion factors for non-traded goods is shown
in Table 1.
Other Costs
4.        The road requires routine maintenance every year and periodic main-
tenance every ten years. The routine maintenance cost is estimated at
Y 1,0001km for a Class 4 rural road. Periodic maintenance is 10Z of the
construction cost.



ANNEX 7
- 63-                           page 2
Benefits
5.        The project road has two main quantifiable benefits:
(a) transport cost savings for the commodities which are and would
continue to be transported mainly by porters and other non-motorized
transport means without the project; and
(b) value added to the production which is generated by the Lower
transport costs made possible by the opening of the project road.
6.        Transport Cost Savings Benefit.  The transport cost savings benefit
is the difference between the transport cost without the project ana that with
the project.  Transport by porters is commonly valued at 3-4 yuan per con-km
on the basis of one man carrying about 1 ton-km per day (equivalent to
carrying a 50 kg load for 20 km). Therefore, the present transport cost per
marketed ton is estimated at Y 44. With the road, the transport cost is
expected to fall to some Y 21ton or a saving of Y 42/ton. The total benefit
is calculated by multiplying the tonnage that would be transported without the
project by the unit transport cost saving. It has been assumed that the
tonnage transported without the project would continue growing at an average
3.72 p.a. (details by commodity are given in Col-mns (3A) to (SA) of Table 2
and the total benefits for 1987 and 1996 are in Columns (7A) and (gA).
7.        Value-added Benefit.  All production in addition to what would occur
withouc the project is directly attributable to the project. Project produc-
tion for 1987 is shown in Column (6B) of Table 2 as the difference between the
forecasts of production marketed with the project (Column 2B) and without the
project (Column 4AW. The value-added of this generated oroduction is the
difference betweea its market value and its production plus transport cost
(Column 7B for 1987). The same calculation is done for 1996.
the Economic Rate of Return
8.        Table 3 sh:jws the streams of costs and benefits calculated as
explained above. For the benefit streams, a constant annual growth rate was
applied between 1987 and 1996, to reach the estimated benefit for l996. As
the road will open about mid-1987, only half of the estimated benefits were
attributed to that year with the full benefit starting in 1988. The transport
cost saving benefits account for 29Z of total benefits in the opening year,
decreasing to 12% by the year 2000. The value-added benefit will be the prin-
cipal benefit, and constitutes 71Z and 88% of total benefits in 1987 and 1996,
respectively. The resulting ERR is 18%.
9.        Sensitivity and Risk Analysis.  The main risks of the proposed
investment are: (a) a lower growth of value-added benefit, (b) construction
cost overrun, and (c) a delay in benefits. The sensitivity of the ERR to the
change in these factors has been tested with the follou-ing results:



ANNEX 7
- 64 -                          page 3
ERR
(z)
Best estimate                          18
Growth of Value-added Benefit
Lower by 50Z                         12
lower by 252                         15
Cost Overrun
increase by 20%                      15
Benefit
delayed for one year                 14



ANNEX 7
-65 -                            Table 1
CHA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Adjusted Economic Cost on Fucheng-Yuguan Rural Road
('000 yuan)
Financial       Economic        Conversion        Adjusted
Components          cost             cost /a        factors       Economic cost
Land                 110.05 /b       110.05           1.00              110.05
Construction
cost             4,577.05 /c    4,526.69            0.90            4,139.92
Labor (22%)        1,006.95        1,006.95           0.50              503.47
Materials
cement (12%)       549.25          527.28           1.00              527.28
timber (11%)       503.47          493.40           1.00             493.40
steel (10%)        457.70          439.39           1.00              439.39
Equipment (15X)
domestic (7.5%)    343.28          343.28           1.34              459.99
foreign (7.5%)     343.28          343.28           1.00              343.28
P.O.L. (8%)          366.16          366.16           1.00              366.16
Overhead (15%)       686.56          686.56           1.00              686.56
Miscellaneous (7%)   320.39.         320.39           1.00              320.39
Total        4,6867.10       4,636.74            0.91           4,249.97
/a   Economic cost is net of duty and taxes. For the three traded comodi-
ties, cement, timber and steel, the prices are based on recent import
contracts and reflect c.i.f. prices.
/b   The financial cost of land including funds for relocation of the
displaced population and removal of electricity poles.
/c   10% physical contingency is included.



- mEEE
Ec-amnei Inlyls of wtma-Y_wm Rmel Rood
Bemi Infrueto
Rad legth (o7A)                        (km)
ladf l1th (mr)                 16.0o  (km)
Trensport Coat (old)           44.00  (!Ito)  - 7
Trasort Coot (now)              2.09  (/l)  - T
Trmpat Cost Saved              41.91   (!Itr)  _T
Ca2culation, fetbodz
CoI:mn(1A){C9A)ar* fo transport cot sawng benfit emrIi  a  tu_al Colaw  (1) to (103) am tar value-edded bent frm the proet
g-roth of traffic vithout additIonml traffic geneamted by project roadz road g mted traffic
(IA) 1983 Productiom               . Ob_erxed                          (1) 1987 Produotic  (with ptoject)-Farecated
(2A) 1985 R8rketed prodsct. Obeerved                                   (2B) 1957 1ted (with proect) -Farnoetud
(SA) hm.d growth rate             =- A3med                             (B) 1996 Ibrked (with project)  forecasted
(4A) 19B7 Marketed produt          - F_recated -  (2A)*(3)-4           (48) Pzie of   I_d pIoduct-   .8beerved
(5A) 1996  Nwketed product         - Farcated -  (2A)*(3A)-9           (SB) Pkoductiom cast              -Observed
(6A) unit TC Sarvin  (0700)        - Obeerved    - T1D-TC              (6B) 1987 Veln-edi_ed In tom      -Forecasted - (2)(4A)
(7) 1987 TncPort Cost Sfting    - Forecasted -  (4A)*(6&)              (73) 1987 value-added ln Yuen  , F_reoste  -{(4S)-W)-4M)*(63)
(S) Unlit TC Sawvg (0i)            - Obered    - TOO-MM                (8B) 1996 vaIn-eddd in tn         -Forecasted -(3)-)
(9M) 1996 Tzanport Cost Saving    - Faeted  -  (L)"(a)                 (9B) 1996 v    -eddied in  am     -Frecated(4))-1C)
(1OD)AUm   growth of velue-added .1987-1996    - ((93)I(7SW( h  )
Bcefit fra  Trenport Cost Sa5n
(IA)      (20)       (30)      (4A)        (5A)      C6A)       (7A)       (BA)      (9A)
Ptd8a3    Nxk83   AieCraw    T5f87   Tref 96 s U0 T87 S CS87  z QT7CS96   TcS'96
it_                ((t)       (tam)      ()        (tt)       (t)  s (ltM)          (I)   s (lta)         (1)
Food Grain          11951        466       0.01       485        530      41.91     20325      41.91      227
O*L Sed                36         23       0.04        *7         3B      41.91      1128      41.91       1605
Swim                  403        117       0.04       137        195      41-91      5736      41.91       8165
Tet                    49         39       0.04        46         65      41-91      1912      41.91       2722
Timber               221S       2050       0.04      2398       3413      41.91     1005o9     41.91    14306
Bamboo           379        359       0.04       420        598      41.91      1761      41U.91     25052
Coma                  340          0      0.04          0          0      41.91         0      41.91          0
In-comingTraffic   us.         oa.                  am.        a.         41.91         0      41.91          0
Total TCS BfXlt                                                                     147210               202826
Psighted Avwe.Crovth                                           0.037 %
Value Added Bft
(la)      (2B)       (3B)       (4B)      (DD)       (6B)       (7B)       (8B)      (93)       (tOB)
Prodaff    3ark87   HRl,kc96   LPric    ProdCost.  Y81 AS1187  t  TA'96               VA96 t Anrowth
Itms               (t)        (tan)      (ton) (t/taWn)   (f/ton) a  (ton)          (r)   t  (ton)        (r)   a   U1
Food Crain          13714        509       664        260        153         24      2526        134      14021       0.21
il Seed                40         24        33        780        420          0         0          0          0      o.
swin                  509        135       204       1440       122D          0         0          9       2002      -.
Tom                    53         42        51       1100        700          0         0          a          0      on.
TImber               4754       5399       5568       150         60       1001     87579       2155    189411        0.09
Bamboo               267o       2416      5362        120         70       1996     95629       4764    228Z55        0.10
Coel                30724      30000    154793         22         14      30000    177300    154793    914821        0.20
Total VA Benefit                                                                   3634                  315t        0.157



- 67 -                     ANNEX 7
Table 3
CEI
1IGHAAY PROJECT
Econominc Rate of Return of Fucheng-Yuguan Rural Road
ConsCost   TCSBen.   VA Ben.  NetC.Flow
(Y)        (Y)        (I)        (r)
1985        1062000                         -1062000
1986        2125000                         -2125000
1987        1062000      73605     181718   -806678
1988          16000     152613     420494      557107
1989          16000     158213     486512      628725
1990          16000     164020     562894      710914
1991          16000     170039     651269      805308
1992          16000     176280     753518     913798
1993          16000     182749     871820    1038570
1994          16000     189456    1008696    1182152
1995          16000     196409    116 061    1347470
1996          16000    203618    1350290    1537907
1997         425000     211090    1562285    1348376
1998          16000     218837    1624777    18Z7614
1999          16000     226869    1689768    1900636
2000          16000     235195    1757358    1976553
IRR =       18 %



-68 -                          ANNEX 8
CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports
A.1  CHINA:  Socialist Economic Development, World Bank, June 1. 1981.
A.2 Statiscical Yearbook of China, 1983, State Statistical Bureau, PRC.
B.  General Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
B.1 CHINA: Socialist Economic Development - Annex F.
B.2 Transport Sector, June 1, 1981, AEA.
B.3  ,ransport Sector Paper, December 10, 1984, AEPTI.
B.4 3asic Data on Chinese Highway Subsector - Answers to Questionnaire
(Chinese with English translation).
C. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
C.1 Feasibility Study of 8 NationaL Roads (Chinese).
C.2 Feasibility Study of 60 Rural Roads (Chinese).
C.3 Proposed Cost Calculation for Physical and Price Contingencies.
C.4 Estimation of Tax and Foreign Exchange Component of Road Construction
Costs.



t~~~it
~~1111
I~~~~~~~~ 69 -



CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Organization of the Highway Bureau
In the Mlnlstri of Communlcatlons
VnM.neo  Roods & eod Trar     |
DMslon                                                                                                       0~~Hghayn  FmgnAfor
Trucking  Ea~?. Fctory  I E~t. Fatory  I   I & Cosin Ins?  I   I   EngFop eig
O~~Ino  Road Cons?,.         R~oad Conift.INPaig                     ScodHS                  Gecantin               Diison
TechnokW ~ ~~~~~~~~~ vehicleMc |q |dot               Maintenance|                                                      Mdow
R Msood  Ddsnto                          Transport    .    & Derg Hwt         r  Sig.   nt. EDp
I~~~~~oto                      Rood C  ;7   onstr   Rood; Cosr HW Fk         Hwv SLcnd ;;1 t HwyHF                             
Rood Beodge          Ecipt. Foctofy      Eqpt. FoctorV        & Deogn hdt.          Dftg Indt.            Eng. Dept.                                                          t
Ctporotlon              XLAN               XN*J    _EUIt4                            YAJN                   XIAN                                                              et
Oc?obet 1984
Would Eai-2C871



71                                             Chart 3
CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
The Rekaonship Behween Central and Provincial Transport Deparments
&*t.y orvnu Trscollcn
F-T-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Deporments              4
PtowirviaIHigh~woy
---4
I~~~~~ _                                             I
I   Ptetecture&              I
l     COuy Transport    D   -
Depatrtrmets_
I   ~ ~~~oaMaintenance                 TownhAttflof
Con lheom*
'The brdhen bressiiaw toe conirc ove poliy & aiVnk*frWtne isses
2 The -cad lInes showv the dkect control o.er thnd decains aoid fornm
policy and odmhintwe IRWssues
OctoberfW 9X



- 72-
Chart 4
C~ ~~~~~1_1_ B'__-                         -  ili--l--         -l---X__
Oa~~~~~~~~~~~5I
2ii.



U  S. S  R       '                r 
'I~~ ?                                                      /lohoo                            -,E'  
'7                           )                        N_  0 N G 0  L I A
1 '  _                                                                  w.s  ,. - -3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
A r-GA
A,FAINIISTAr4     Z                                               -      
p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
7=W ftW BW*-S Mg o  _sV -  '--r
tiMdw 3333s Oen wpe.%* ror 
tiomWad mm V. of Te VV c&Bank
NW VWENMhW'33 OFenr3c
C4,WXh   7  0  A de a-,  ba >W
.*M wo mid M    VW  h,u. 1W  Ie                                                              ho3, X  -
I dO The  YWf BW* d-
h Fv,x CaCpmaulk.
TRANSPORT SYSTEM  * 
Proicial Capitals      
sLh-  Provincial Bodari-s
*-  Interrnational Boundaries                 oft"r                    I  E,T N4( 
I  _     LAO PEOPLE'SsL.   '    ~0       J
ItA    t DEIViOCRATIC/  /        tZ
CHINA                                                    Ii
TRANSPORT SYSTEM~~~~~~~~~I                                                        ME



IBRD ISM
,m'i.' *0                                        " 
z 7 s ...... 1 x ~~~~U .         S 5.   R., .................'
1,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
* '--. 2[iif 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
. t S XzI r    *                 ./
_ o
~~    .j,-. ~~ DEMAOCRAT IC                      .
HE3    o                                     REPUBLIC                   JAPAN
CIF; KOR EA                             Toiro
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*~ /*  h f              f,l ,I .   ra
Ao  ioo sea    5     HILIPPENB S
VS -js NGSlJ ;N
-   <    r  :            tS    9-~NSHAGA  H 
AN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HNtA W - 
znij,2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A IIf IVe\,
G UPr/VKONG,  Kr
J-> V- t' ~MACAO, PORT
,;$-weJ)7~~~~~~~4L *IY.IE'          -,W rl   !  ;i17;   )  00 Boo  PHILIPPINES
-  1!    4   IIIMILES r  100  200  300  100  502                                         1W
. ,-    y;;;t fEr                                                                                      '9.4
DECEMBE R 1 984



ON   O L IA  /- '                                       1e                                         1;7                                       118'                                       IT19                                     120'
*,J_.> )  {rT   -|4eD,>oJ        rrkyr-S45   {'                                                                                                                                   CHINA
:|V '    5~>AI~  IrA JSla,:1zt          BfA                                                                                                                  HIGHWAY   PROJECT
z4           e ii0Afl>)                       JJ           SHANDCNG    rO Jinai.ng                                                                                   ANHUI  PROVINCE
7                               ~~~~~~~~~~~To Jm,erifg
9~~~~.s .-  -.         '~~x r> .T  C Mir
SEA -rsu   , Hbrw  lvto,   5t    c5.s^4   ^ To Jmrf4ne_                                                                                      PROJECT ROOADS!
-3'-!4 National                                                                                                                                                                       3
1w.i (;2u                         .                                                                                                                                         'g3U 13    Rural
A.,   HOIIO KO. UK                                                                    <
r>fUIEl NA 1* t;    ,  ,,                                                  ,!       \           Pal Xian, n-                                                                           National roads
Xian                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Seconidary roads
~~~~  c~~~~~~~~~~'                                                                     4-i-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railways
Fr. PW  s , -   lpwd byo  Beijing                         r                                                                                                                     AirporTs
rMZefMMns Wald...... B.rlik Ry - # #3  .i                                                                                                                                       Rivarsr  I
rlof rA ca7umar.S a        Shangghl _angh uivefs
de'sVWir ama UG&* 1W ft
ronlwe a,*rie  V.ble ai r'h                                    *  ; W                                                                                                       -'  District IShen) boundaries
Carwalin The d.c,ar  ,'                                                                                                                                                    --   Provincial bo.Jnldaries
.wad md ft br.MAna Unn                                               y     .       '                                   T Lianyuriging
pa VW     do Mr \4  Sr                               xiaai ft                                                                                                          -   - InTArnaston'il boundaries
hwn"11Aaw1inlannd C84,wako                                                         55  un!
i9sMt4Wi aso fr hal4 d *to 5uSd                                                /                  _ // '.3'.
aI&WIWleOyMW\                             -'V2  /                                         . '  
GI' <>+ lwd\ N NWn
|  - '~~v..   L                               /                  yoi g  c L    *Hah /
Ho~ Sian
,.  HENAN                                              / <   g   ;                                        <                             W      JA
- ~~* iraahou  ,,.   ~Mengchas                                                   ahs,                              (
(,- . Jlnir h slg                                                                                                                                       -                   T o1 T'lh o
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 .  _,Ton
33,   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~/32'
TO X'~~~~~~~~va~~~~~g                                                                                                                                        To Cheng:heu~~~~~~~~~~~~~iy
La'



~~\ ' <   longe"f)  '       t           ,,                        <                    ,lCuaWhe                                         v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uon
To ChWng/hou
Jinshalt  t            6              Xanshan    \                   i d         2           ~a a                        xan,
31                                       ~~\..1i  \I /                   /7.ai-i    1                                                                    Pichn                                         Lan XI                     Wuxng 3
ashAn                                                                    h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u8lhn -           un/
HUBEI                                                                                                         (( WIngj                                                                   .-                      XIANG bn    a
-30'Oongal                                                                                                                               .Yi Xliih                                         --  '30
I  , 1-S' ...... W 1~~I  
yoxi                                                               onT *rngihau  O Jngdeahel i Ty    .
To Nanchangi;          .X/   ('                                         JIANGXI                                                 :00
tZ   s  )  i  > ^# g J ( 01 26 50llun76J1ng  ian
HUBEI~~                                                                      GI                                                                                                         I
-*                                                                                                                                                                / .K.i   r  '!'  wxs\                               ILOMETCRS ...
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sn W!5                                                      nglan                                                                                            ingzh
rn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ila                                                                                                                                                  un.



p      1                                      p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vt.m4~  s.AWA~Aaf  M   PW& 
3Bj ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~n.IW~~                                ma 3m>. .A .-
f 13d \1        
OVII
-' \Z.S 
C; j                                         M.)->cB'
/  t           t   \ inwH / 
I                 u                 -.     .. ' wn
-UV    (( \>)  vm   /8\,   
- -- 1IX. k X                                                 -
'-1   -I-                    I                 )
X-g O A      ~I     * .-' .X   [\" O 
k~~ y   ,      
NVHJ   A-                          \: --                                : - /V x', 
NVnHSIS ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ I                     ,SI,                 ,1_
.'-.'Q'~~~~~'- 7U
.ZGL                        y                            9               ;     _                     -



IBRD 1847
TO cIiw.ga
CHINA
XKha                                                     HIGHWAY  PROJECT
) -                                                         YUNNAN PROVINCE
)  f-~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~PROJECT ROAMS
No  Nabonw
5   Runl
-Nationl~ foad,
:' \5N ziiaam                                                            - Secondary I a:
teoyX <> Dt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-I-H- oRm
4 AwPafl
Sh* ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    h
|   t   f r     (  /  rF-_,2K ~~~~~rO AnzbunP"dcabonri
F~~~~~~~~Fni
~~~~~ (   'Xcfo                                                               GUA GIZO   .  N-
Yun~mu                     Muguawi Maliro
KUM
Imlgy'
,~ '\  ?%GUANGXI
Jiwii.ifigO*,                             i 
H                  ,9x                                               Napo
N                                                                                   I,                                        22--
_E'SK-_                          VIET NAM
CRATIC)
3L1C
_ 3LIC /                                                                               g            Gulf
:  -  - of
) /        Tonkin
DECEMBER 19S4



10t teR ~~las.                             lao                     tr                      to.tao
CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                     To o
GUANGXI PROVINCE                                                                                     GUIZHOU
PROJEr ROAM
32  Fk)
-   Seconday t as                                        '1
Pam                                    \, 6_      -.
Dbrt (Shen) boundws                                      Xl_k f\ ,9 
To _AJ n\Sa.                                                                      . 
*o  )-  <  \&DtS+                                  X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,, -9Jag
The    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~m 
YUNNAN  -
ad_A        *       105-,                                                                           dJ     
_d-*~-  VIET NAM                        >               ,/    /                            n ..
.__.-    .tr.                                                                                              -  
'S                                                                   '_r2                    Beibu Wan
,_,,__1                   j            I     I  s   .     -,*-
"IO.
01r                     \lor '-           j           '-                     i1W_



IBRD 184R
tt t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 112@s t' Jr i
icr ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~zn
HUNAN
-_   \                  /  n  _>5:   X s           I        r~~~~4Y  O Hww
25t
Uu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sh
Ukii~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                                          i
\/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3                                                          3 2 /<$.
Us\/-)(>. -. -  -    -         *
N       .         U .    ''/          /,  i                   2         ...................................................APRI.196
3'  /d   )    I I  Yr  A                        / \ A\ lGu p)                               I  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ri23--0QIVU>>
9s t f \X--B . "  GUANGDONG
.-a'''                                 hw                                    Nan HaiV    '  ;
,.,,,;C   ?t  X,2,                           e                                       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
)    -,  '  S    h   S   d    8   A                                      ' ~~~~~~~~~APRL  98



nr7                          iir                           wig r                         ts   --.
, JIANGSU
CHINA                                                                    To aImEI2          -
HIGHWAY PROJECT
3,.            ZHEJIANG  PROVINCE
PROJECT HIOADS:
07RuslX                                                                                   1
-   Ntiona roads// 
=aoondaryra.ds                             ANHUI             -                               /
Sl--l C aidwy' ro                                                    ui     y'.   -
,    pon                                                                                    ,Vuka  -
Prowin"i bmrftri                                             r    ,.              03      _     :
lnt-wntflici  bobu ndS5--
0L     2s       g      7,5     10e               TO T                                         9 0-
KILOMETERS
Cu~~~~~~u
_~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~' _' _.**"**-..
2r                                                                            t~ L<nft
117*                                                  (.\
so                  _n FUJIAN                            )     ?     ngg1         T- -
3 m~~ 
118                            twg_* ,1-                     0I 
er________er_            ________________________________________J ________



IBRD 18350
Je~~~~~~~11                   - 1      12F                  12
v  SHANGHAI
ngWan~~~~~~~~~~~a
/ '" 
03
earl9
) , - , _2 22                                                        2
t  t   \  SOShin9 Xbn    /   \~~~ain
J              / in   un    1    t      ln
I.  X   _   'I#_  e i 
4'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E~ME 19i''% i
J'-'SJ ?'. ~~~~~~
_ Pgbnt n -ar g 7
-S\--g) >  7d7-wl \ !T 'a
v- -    \ <        1      CHuhng
v      Hul~~~~~ingO   < 5
:unxmhongf
T:a>
" 12(r                  121'                  122'                   123'
DFEMEbBER 1984



34 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~98                                            0                                  182- To O,NwrF                     104  IT  L&ntmw
{- - _r X QINGHAI  z ,  
Se- g                         \                                   t                                  <
C -Da.nkug)o__Jg I-gUjn>   
>  -    -                8erxr ><        02~~~~Oamung                                     i     -Ph    uo
/.          . sUC   t'--\j-'   -                                   "u~~~~~81ka   uswa
0~~~ B\y                                           " Ab' w    ~
'P.                  X.inlngO              fi u'   OXaIopn                       ' unX        s    u        e
0 ~XIZANGG
jD                I_                  e       o        -<DWajiyuw  4{                |  e|D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pA
)   (--_g o~' J       K\R,           Cftt;                                     =        
O ZDSSdlQ  h   0           xirshanek                      ;    C         x,,Zh  lkn0 
28-~~~~ J.,-L  '                                                                                                   ).aDU  
O0       50       1C        15         0                             _                                    -.ny-ngO ;     
KILOMETERS                                                                  Yeu  01! ec    9.a 
\  C    U    -  y          S        anNDng an 
. .                        4    - ~-. ./*H1UI   
C2                               ^ D ^ "                                                 DkOUN  J                    v              *_ 
SL<   "~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~ .   - 26'   t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^-s~~~~~~w~~~~_  Y O X~~~~~ui
_ - '- ZY _sTlfeRh~~~~sl@*OfW2flee ' / ~~~~--
{--' ''L- -' ;:i                       <Z_  Tlw_ ;^,V~a
<,--<,      I__11                                  100'                                  1a29                                  104' 4..&WWF-- 



IBRD 18351
104*  TO TLnzEou             b  1o6                To xion                                           iior .0          34-
tGANSU                                                        Fopbg , 
x ,--> >2 ~~~~~("SHAANXI
n cpingu 0-        Da Hs7Jn9= u~   a...Zhush....
.arigchang -v     --<5rA
~~~~~h~~~jan  ~ ~     ~     ~      Wnr.n
|,              ou                        Tonglu                                      ) Oo Xbaufa i  Z
I       \px,L'~~~n                                           c,h' "kou
:    "~~~u  *  ~~>\  ' i~angzhong    >-                                                 Wuind
tIMi Zhu  4 nrang         \    >>_                           L \ (   OXunilwin /
Shlin~                      n gn                            g virlpmn,  jurn                     Fe unEgI.n
ba i Y    bia Ngang) H-bn  | ,                                          Wamui dani
D1(al Xng           Lnan
OGo~~~wn  Q..    Y.~~~~~YO'   mniShU,  
,          cl w iS                                             "ls xiSwrlan~~~~~~~~~~~~Ynyn2
;~n, JunTian   t 2   ro Gu.yang                     To Tongr.n   :                   2Er
unn   .'  ejb                                   C H I NA                       X.
\            r-                     ~HIGHWAY PROJECT -
SICHUAN PROVINCE
\                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT ROADS:
1,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~N
)  To Ah,~~~~n                         -    NationalHUBE
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -    National roads5
on       G U I ZH O U                                 Secondary roads
GUIZHOU~ ~I  Railways                                                                  Z8.
j                                     *~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Airports
-                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
/                                                 -'~    O,strrct (Shefl} boundaries
we/ a ----Provinciai boundaies
---  Yntihonal boundaries
106   _             108                        ~~~~~~JANUARY 1985



1 1 4                                                                                OA \  N  P  V  ,   I  A
WUHAN                                                    Anqing
30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TowAtm v.w0eZ
JeA P AL A
HUNAN~~~~~~~~N X                                                                      j-  ' 392
Huangihi 0                                                               -NHUI
To WAu          A u-
30*.
To Huaagshi                                        --
(   <  \ 4~~~~~~~-                                  >-   E                        TWh                        1 A --f w2 G; ?;" ' 
Tuevang  )/> t              >     <    )        @          jurng    gpa
ro; *g                                                                 g               S h o      F UJaN
YU               Wuning~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\'uhag.~                                      uun
XiuAhuI  -         **~,~i s;u,anhang                                        in
N , ~H ~  n sh g n                      ng-    fl } k 9       g  C hang     2."
29,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2*



K   -t                 Lu Shill-ht '                                                  Li |                                              <               spingIh              FUJIAN
Lianhus                                                    -                                                             To~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~neF Neiiqing
t I' tX /u Wa    In  aO                                                                                    %@f 1)
276                                                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~27"
TO Chla                           a                                                                    ngchaC
0                   he                               ~~~~~~~nln  unhngCHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
JIANGXI PROVINCE
2      uncun                         n g                                                        PROJECT ROADS:
27              -                  ingdchu       s          I                  *Ru @ Ntioral
S  ti u o2iwauin                 Huangeg                                     Sh)chng                                              17   Rural
:  WuluU\~                                              US j,,a'iS                                                                    National roads
26*                                   ulullng\'                                                                                                                 -       Secondary roads                                   26
u ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1--Railways
To Chen XIan  I  "'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~9you  ~~~~~~~~4 ~~Airports
To Ch0 n iA@n tSe  /     V       O       W      ;    ,     ,                7;g,"0 lngo  Rivers
{   _  Chongyt    Shonsyou\/>_    { 2                      f                Rn       o rgi                                        -   -  District (Shen) boundaries
r3uting/i 9 fiNcnkang // Longb u f                                                             \riK / \ Provincial boundaries
2r;                                                                                                                                              Int} tJ    ztung  -  -   International boundarIes
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Lnn | 0                             /      ulanto uchang 9
0         25       s5         75        100
Anx/  t    oDudn   / %   }   f 5 <KILOMETERS
- 2s     . *    /             IZhnlnang  N.                            r3                                                                                                                    25hg
25'~~~ 
|dtIhVI '  Cu Longna n                            Xunwfan
we dm his A   oun  pd yw         ,
0  pa V.b DA-A itbl                                          We iIi                                                                    
t?d ta ted in \mm%  W                               \t    Wnlong                                 \\ 
we   we *tbI -FM .A> fi.                 a          :          iga
mEn  tW' an A.unn                                      )l9     
&V   d - m basiw   n fl                               %      
an tom                   ua n Dt d *. o n m                                                                                            I
Po of Tt Wd am tmw S" cr                                                                                                                       t    T  % 
aw qf jWrxan rd Wmp skka  a         gzhou                                                  
e ly cr                                                        T   GUANGDONG
1141                                      1                                           1t8                                       117 1870
IL                       to~~~~~~~~~~- ~



117'
Z,
HEBEI
T.-
Pfiudi
To Shpzhua-9                                                                                      Zhenhue        Chenjimbuitng
Nt
..r                                                                                                                                          Vangpin
PHRJMNU
115-       To shq,.Zh..m
Ling Xian
Sho
.01
a Wuchmo
-37.                                             _90ngtie                                                   $11.                              J(
Z
we. X,..,
i-YA-90
,n
G.0t.
Unqu
CL-ch..g
11,ng'6P
43
Shen X,,n
i'an
x                                     mulun
D.W.                       Yanqg.,
-36'
0.
Fa. X.an
L,2.gsha
0
N."y                                                                                   ybhw
ID
Lenshan
T.                                         ng    Y.nche.g.
ENA                  0
I..h'C'IU                                                                         Yinen          Ju
Oufu
Ju                                                 Kid.
D,;ng..ng
0                                                                                    Chwqqe.
Fei
0
xizhmg
owqmo                              J-m"                          Teng
35.                                                                                                             x
Xili
U.3hu
ra zhenozho.                         0 C.0 Xmn                                                          %   WOi3h
/Sh.n X-
P" Xuln.
)Zlg X,
U)
Oangsh
JIANG
HENAN
ANRUI
TO L.CWW
115-                                             116-                              TI) Fuyang                           Bangb.                                 To earigbu



IBRO 16353
|~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21                                                                 i  ||6 -- 
119z                                 120-                                 t2t-                                 122-
3s.
0 Changdo
lin
\WeXi>n
t~nqi                                          Jm
\  .  /  i                                                   ~~~~~CHINA
i,    I /  /   /    i '-~ngu                                          H I GHWAY  PROJ ECT
SHANDONG PROVINCE
)         _JZhananOn
(i        |          \                2                                                                PROJECT ROAD&
/hi    National tnl
S     -u.,, -i".-     +    /                                                                      -     Ntioarad
/                                                                         -       Secondary roafd
R.zI~ao0                                                                          -+--4-- Railways
4   IPorts
!                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ries
:'  - -- iDistrict (Shen) bounrdari3
Provincial boundarii
j C                                                                                    - _-_  Internmaional beundries
Ganyu0              Unnyungpng
_L       n Lanyunaflgr
\                                                    O    ~ ~~       ~    ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ 25  fi 75i  100
KILOMETV:RS
Gu nanyt     
119                                    120                                     121                                   12-
OECEMBER Ind



T  1o5                         0'tO                                              0'10',                                                    tic,                                 112'
H I GHWAY PROJ ECTt                                                                                                                               f 
SHAANXI PROVINCE                                                                                      .                            ungar Qi   i
Elin Hera OI,1             
PROJECT ROADS:LZ                                                                                                        <      r <a
--Nalional                                                                                                     ./        Hq -k
-  National roalds                                                                                                           2        y
__ Secondary roads                                                                                        C       /-UY                                      3-
A;rpOFt                                                                                 1                   3 orimt; 
Rivers                                     NEI MONGGO L ZIZHIQU/'Snm                                                           venf
D ' i strict (Shen) boundaiies                                                           i,),                        
-P civincial b-unitdafei  -jM:i  
Iw nterriational   bouridaftes                                           /                                                   \,'   ( s-
/   5 Yulin             (         ,\             tJn Xian~~Xin Xia
-th            re r, 1 4t <                                      !           t4H->-f                    , ( b;h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Li XihinoI    -  SHANXI
i        !          2,                                                >\         {    e       {           t~~b  !hI
NINGXIA   HUIZV, Zi1ZHIQU                                                                (                                                                 :.!Zholatngy '   \ -4--(Fny.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Zhang                                                                                                    i4osll'   r   ()a %  ;,-  Linf
\ > - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nl Zidn                                           na  nan  Sho   -Y /raLngh
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                                Iaokc;i *^Fux
t   !   8       5                   !        fHesl ui      Hua~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~isnthr  nsa                                                n g'       \ g ih i  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hda                                                                           YoIh - 'iu ln"xian Z?   
~~_B;_  >  r>nglew  @g  s W ?k/ChKgJ;t; ;( / , \\L rl>> C / l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fmx



in lian i                                                                                                        u igioi 1.
Jingyusn                                                           Nino Xian  Zhoongn                                                                                                                     xion
I un                                                     0    in ong
uanqu
Zhuanglang                                                                                                                                            loys
p                               -changiiiiri 'Jin
Balshu
Hualing,                                                           yi
C, hen g   n                                         tXm X14n
-35'                                                                                                                                                                                                        .....                     ng            WV                  331L
ro Lanihoti                           Zhanglia 'humn                                    Linglil         flin Xian                                      Tunyliuan
inan                                     L  9 Xian                                                                      0 x:.n
Iq                                  in Shul                                                                                   rihua                                                                                                                 ro tuoying
nyano               0Liflyou      Yongshou                  Yu
Ytirt yal
Tianshul                                                                                                          Ji   an
an     ngy            (34011no   Wei
Q<9A14ng                                                                                          my n                                             Luon!nq".''
92i                                                                                                                                           .  0
'51141
Ong
uoj4n                                         ng
Moi                                               h4ngan    n
uthl                                                              0                         Lush              HENAN
34-                                                                                                                                flu                    C                                                                                                            34t
ibal                                                                                          uonAn',
Llan dan                                                                                                                                                  Bainy?'0111
)ian                                                                                                                     ng Xian                   10
Cheng Xian, _                                                i                        0h;whenti
lul Xion                                                                                                                                                        nlong                                  Luenchu4n
/Plhoshul
IU 4
A,",  Kang Xian.'                                                                            Fopin7                                                                          anyang
LuoyanQ                                                                                                                                                             Xiang
Yang Xian
.Mrm h  long                            ro Nonvang
.33'                                                            Mian                                                           I tian                                                                     I                                                             33k
Nanshe           ant Ong            Xiidp.                                                                                  %    HUBk1---yu
fan In
ngq ang                                                                                                          u
ny4nq           041he
ng
hivan
Belba                                                                                                                                       111-
yusn                                                                 henba               plyang                          Pingo   r                                       V 0 N 0 0 t I A
Nonliang                                                                                              h                                                                      ""x8omw
ngcang
Da                                                                                                                                                       ra Xislioldin
-32'                                                                                                                    nyumn
Zhonping          "a ffw nso bw                                                 "t,
ro Chend                                                                                                                     ---..h4nokou                                        RN ftu lionk's 6:1-.=            J                 A
Gaaho
0-                                        kr ft corwonlipwo w ft
t"s vd of "dAh* ow re
angxi                                                                                                                                               DI Po MUM
SICHUAN                                                          C"Womn
QA IND mv cb Rd b*, on to
rn                              2,1       1,0       7.5      ILJ                                                                                                                      P&I of FM waom Oona ow ft
OL                                                                                                                                                                                                               9")c
KILOMEtEnS                                                                                                                                                    ft k" OIOA
ro Notiling                                                                                  lor any                                       'Mwo- Not
m                                                                                                                                                                                                           of
igg,                                   110-                                                                         !41N,






