Document of
The World Bank
FOR oMcOA USE ONLY
oc/ ) Z2 9- C%/4
Ck  /S 4Y- c//
Report Ne. P-4038-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELtPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN MIOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$42.6 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 30.3 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
HIGHWAY PROJECT
April 23, 1985
This document ba a restricted distributon  id -y be used tly recpients only in the performance of
their officil duties. Its contents may not osherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984     April 1985
Currency Unit       =   Renminbi (RMB)    (RMB)
US$1.0              =    Y (Yuan) 2.32    Y 2.84
Y 1.0               =   US$0.43            US$0.35
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                   =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kiLometer (km)              =   0.62 mile tmi)
1 square meter (sq m)         =   10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 square kilometer (km2)      =   0.4 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha) = 0.01 km2    =   2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (' ..g)      =         2.2046 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)          =   2,204 pounds (lbs)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AADT     -      Average Annual Daily Traffic
CAD      -      Computer Aided Design
CHB      -      County Highway Bureau
CNTIC    -      China National Technical Import Corporation
CTC      -      Central Trucking Company
CTD      -      County Transport Department
ERR      -      Economic Rate of Return
GNP      -      Gross National Product
HB       -      Highway Bureau
HPDI     -      Highway Planning and Design Institute
HSRI     -      Highway Scientific Research Institute
ICB      -      International Competitive Bidding
LCB      -      Local Competitive Bidding
MOC      -      Ministry of Communications
MOE      -      Ministry of Education
MOF      -      Ministry of Finance
PHB      -      Provincial Highway Bureau
PTC      -      Provincial Trucking Company
PTD      -      Provincial Transport Department
SAA      -      State Auditing Agency
VOC      -      Vehicle Operating Costs



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan, Credit and Project Summary
Borrower: People's Republic of China
Amount:   US$72.6 million equivalent ccmprising US$42.6 million equivalent
IBRD and SDR 30.3 million (US$30 million equivalent) IDA.
Terms:    Loan:  20 years including 5 years of grace; standard variable
interest rate.
Credit: Standard.
Project
Description: As the Bank Group's first involvement in China's highway
subsector, the proposed project would address a number of needs by
assisting Government in: (a) improving the quality of future con-
struction works by modernizing highway design, and by updating and
improving construction and material specifications; (b) increasing
the cost-effectiveness of highway investments by improving economic
evaluation techniques for the evaluation and selection of road
investmpnts, and by supporting Government's new policy of moving to
competitive bidding for public works; (c) supporting a highway
research program, with particular emphasis on improving and
strengthening the existing paved national road network, improving
road capacity in congested areas and improving road safety; and (d)
strengthening the capabilities of staff working in the highways sub-
sector by carrying out a training program. In addition, the project
would support the Government's program for completing the national
road network by constructing or improving about 230 km out of a
total of 4,000 km of missing links in the network. It would also
support a national program of improving economic activity in rural
areas through the construction or improvement of about 1,400 km of
rural roads. There is some risk of delays in project implementation
since this is the first time that competitive bidding will be used
for highway construction in China, and these delays couLd increase
costs. This risk vould be reduced by appropriate supervision in the
early project stages.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Project Costs:
Local           Foreign         Total
------ (US$ million)---       -
Road construction                         77.7             51.5           129.2
Design and research improvement            0.1              2.5             2.6
Road maintenance improvement                -               1.8             1.8
Training program                                            2.1             2.1
Consultant services                         -               0.6            0.6
Base Cost                            77.8             58.5          136.3
Physical contingencies                     7.8              5.9           13.7
Price contingencies                       11.2              8.2           19.4
Total Project Cost /a                96.8             72.6          169.4
Right-of-way cost                          7.2              -               7.2
Total Financing Required               104.0             72.6          176.6
Financing Plan:  IBRD and IDA               -              72.6           72.6
Government             104.0               -           104.0
Total Financing             104.0              72.6          176.6
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank/Group FY      1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
------------ (US$ million) -
Annual                  9       25      30       5        2       1.6
CumuLative              9      34       64     69        71      72.6
Economic Rate of Return: 20Z
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5408-CiA dated April 19, 1985
/a Including taxes and duties of US$16.8 million equivalent.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF TFE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTR'JCTION AND DEVELOPHENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ro THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A HIGHWAY PROJECT
l.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
and credit to the People's Republic of China to help finance a Highway
Project. The loan, for $42.6 miLlion, would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The
credit, for the amount of SDR 30.3 ($30 million equivalent), would be on
standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A country economic memorandum, entitled "China:  Recent Economic
Trends and Policy Developments" (No. 4072-CHA), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. An economic mission that visited China
early in 1984 is currently preparing a report on long-term development issues
and options, which is expected to be submitted to the Executive Directors by
May 1985. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex 1.
Background
3.        To address problems of economic inefficiency and structural
imbalances, the Government initiated a program of reform and adjustment in
1979. Reform implementation proceeded most rapidly in agriculture and
culminated with the introduction of the "production responsibility system" (in
various forms), which gave households and small groups autonomy in production
and investment decisions and allowed them to keep most income earned after
contracted payments to the state and collective. By the early 1980s, the vast
majority of production teams in China had implemented such a system. Reform
of the urban economy started out much more slowly, but nevertheless signi-
ficant systemic changes occurred, including bonuses for individual workers;
profit retention by state-owned industrial enterprises (at first on an
experimental basis); fiscal decentralization measures, which allowed provinces
to share in the benefits of increased revenues and gave them more freedom in
budgeting; and some decentralization of foreign trade authority. Adjustment
policies resulted in an increase in the share of consumption in GDP; a rise in
the share of light industry in total industrial output, substantial improve-
ments in living standards, rapid growth of foreign trade (particularly
manufactured exports), and relatively modest (in relation to past trends) GDP
growth.
4.        A number of problems emerged in the process of reform and adjust-
ment, including large budget deficits in 1979 and 1980, a deterioration of the
external position and a significant current account deficit in 1980, infla-
tionary pressures and some overt price increases, and excessive investment
demand resulting from decentralization of investment decision making and



- 2 -
financing. In response to these difficulties the Government imposed a stabil-
ization program in early 1981, which relied mainly on administrative con-
trols. It resulted in a slowdown in growth, a reduction in price inflation
(to around 2% p.a.), a sharp cutback in budget-financed investment, a Lower
budget deficit (12 of GDP in 1981); and a current account surplus of $1.5
billion in 1981 and $5.6 billion in 1982.
Economic Performance, 1981-84
5.        Economic growth picked up in 1982 with che resumption of rapid
growth of heavy industry and the rebound in investment. Overall performance
has continued to be strong since then, and real GDP growth averaged over 8%
p.a. from 1981 to :984. Shortages of energy, many producer goods, and con-
struction materials were exacerbated by the rapid growth of demand. yet price
increases were limited by further strengthening of administrative price
controls (particularly in 1983). Government budget revenue grew very slowlv
in 1982 (1.3%) but much more rapidly in 1983 (7.9%) and 1984 (as much as 10%),
due to a new tax on enterprise retained funds and extrabudgetary incomes of
Governmenc organizations. This permitted an increase in budget expenditures
on investment of 17Z in 1983 and a further rise in 1984, while maintaining a
relatively small budget deficit (less than 2% of GDP in 1983). Growth of
subsidies was largely steamed by stopping increases in most of the agricul-
tural procurement prices.
6.        Gross industrial output value grew at over 10% p.a. between 1981 and
1984, with heavy industry growing somewhat faster than light industry (12% vs.
9%), a reversal of the 1978-81 pattern. The energy constraint on industrial
growth was eased by rising coal output (8% p.a. in 1981-84) and maintaining
annual crude oil output at over 100 million tons, along with improvements in
the efficiency of energy utilization (primary commercial energy consumption
grew only 60% as fast as GDP in 1981-83). Agriculture has continued its very
strong performance, with gross agricultural output value rising at 9% p.a. in
1981-84 and grain output at 7% p.a. (reaching over 400 million tons in
1984). Cash crops and animal husbandry have also grown very rapidly,
stimulated by rising demand and attractive prices.
7.        There have been impressive increases in personal incomes throughout
the period 1978-83. Average per-capita income in rural areas rose by about
12% p.a. in real terms and urban incomes by about 5% p.a. Rural income growth
was mainly due to production increases, efficiency improvements, and growth of
employment in nonagricultural activities, as well as substantial agricultural
procurement price increases (through 1981). Urban income growth, on the other
hand, can be attributed primariLy to wage and benefit increases, which have
exceeded growth of labor productivity.
8.        Control of the aggregate level of investment and its composition has
continued to be a serious problem. Enterprise and local government investment
continued to increase sharply in 1982, far exceeding plan guidelines. In
1983, more stringent measures brought this part of investment under control
(though it still exceeded plan targets). But investment outside the rural
sector remains rather inefficient, and improvements in efficiency have been
hindered by administrative controls. Construction costs have risen
continuously (10% p.a. in 1978-83).



- 3 -
9.        China has maintained a strong external position.  The dollar value
of both exports and imports stagnated in 1981-83, but this masked considerable
increases in the volume of foreign trade. Since 1983, imports have grown more
rapidly than exports, and in the first 11 months of 1984, exports rose by 18%
and imports by 25%. Manufactured export growth was sLower in 1981-84 than in
1978-81, but it started from a much higher base and occurred in the face of
worsening world market conditions. Foreign debt and debt service ratios
remained at very low levels ($6.4 billion and 5.5X respectively in 1983);
China's foreign currency reserves (excLuding gold) rose to $17 billion (over 7
months' imports) by mid 1984 end have stabilized at that level since then.
The value of the Chinese renminbi declined by about 36% against the SDR
between the end of 1981 and late 1984 (60% against the US dollar).
Recent Reforms
10.       Rural reforms have continued to progress more rapidly than reforms
elsewhere in the economy. A salient trend has been the spread of nonagri-
cultural activities such as processing, transport, and commerce. "Specialized
households" (which concentrate on one type of pursuit - often cash crops,
animal husbandry, or nonagricultural activities) and pooling of capital by
small groups of households in various types of ventures are becoming more
common forms of economic organization in China's rural areas. Wholesale
markets for some agricultural products have emerged. To encourage investment
in land improvement and development, farming contracts between collectives and
peasant households (which typically had been fixed for no more than 3-5 years)
can now be extended to as long as 15-20 years. In early 1985, it was
announced that planned procurement quotas for agricultural commodities will be
abolished; more methods of financing investment in rural nonagricultural
activities will be permitted (including tax exemptions, local government
bonds, higher interest rates to attract more saving, etc.); and the growth of
the agricultural processing industry in coastal areas will be promoted.
11.       The momentum of urban reforms has revived, with significant progress
on a number of fronts. Since early 1984, a main focus has been further
broadening and clearer delineation of the decisionmaking authority of urban
enterprises. Profit retention now extends almost universally to state-owned
industrial enterprises and in nonindustrial sectors like transport, commerce,
construction, and other services. Urban collectives and individual enter-
prises as well as a variety of joint ventures between them and state enter-
prises have grown rapidly (the number employed in urban individual enterprises
rose from 150,000 in 1978 to 2.31 million in 1983).
12.       In financial reforms, the most important new development was the
implementation of a profit tax system to replace profit remittances to the
Government budget by state enterprises. Though most enterprises have switched
to this system, the benefits have been limited because of the application of a
different effective tax rate for each enterprise, to offset the impact of
distorted relative prices and other factors. Similar problems have resulted
in the abandonment of an attempt to impose a fee or charge on the fixed
capital provided to state enterprises by the Government, and they have



- 4 -
hindered the shift from grant to loan financing of new fixed investment,
despite strong Government support. Financial discipLine at the enterprise
level remains weak, in spite of efforts to strengthen accounting and auditing
systems and more strictly enforce existing financial regulations.
13.       In the crucial area of price reform, a major price adjustment for
textiles and textile raw materials occurred in early 1983; it helped balance
supply and demand, to a large extent equalized profit rates for synthetic and
cotton textiles (which are close substitutes in production and consumption),
and drastically reduced subsidies for cotton procurement, with only a small
net effect on the Government budget. Prices of many "minor" consumer goods
(which individually do not have a significant impact on living standards) and
the majority of agricultural commodity prices have been decontrolled and are
now set by negotiations between producers and commercial units. "Floacing
prices" (up to 20% above or below official prices) are now allowed for many
industrial producer goods (either for all output or for output above the
mandatory plan target). Price adjustments for key energy products and raw
materials (which in many cases are severely underpriced) and for subsidized
basic consumer goods like grain and edible oil have proven more difficult to
implement, hindered by the potential impact of price changes on urban living
standards and on the finances of energy-using enterprises. Nevertheless, some
price rises have occurred (e.g. for coal and petroleum), and moreover the
share of free market transactions (at largely uncontrolled prices) has
increased in recent years.
14.       Reforms in the employment and wage system have made limited
progress. The bulk of urban labor is still allocated administratively, and
transfers of workers or professionals among enterprises are heavily impeded.
Numerous attempts are being made to link individual performance more closely
with rewards, including piece-rates, "floating wages," and various types of
contractual "responsibility systems." These have achieved some success, but
problems of egalitarian distribution of bonuses remain, and many enterprises
give out bonuses in kind or disguise them as allowances in order to evade
regulations.
15.       China's foreign exchange rate system has been unified with the
abolition of the "internal settlement rate" (Y 2.8 to $1) at the beginning of
1985. Direct foreign investment (which was first allowed in the late 1970s
but developed slowly due to the lack of a legal framework) is being actively
encouraged and joint venture agreements have increased sharply. In addition
to four "special economic zones" open to foreign investment and subject to
more flexible policies, 14 coastal cities were recently opened up in the same
way.
16.       Significant steps have been taken to develop new tools of indirect
macroeconomic management. The central banking functions of the People's Bank
of China were separated from its commercial banking functions (which were
given to the newly-established Industrial and Commercial Bank of China) at the
beginning of 1984. The central bank relies on redeposit requirements and a
discount window to influence the operations of specialized banks, and even-
tually may use discount rates and interest rates in general as a flexible tool
of macroeconomic management. Adjustments in indirect taxes may be used to



affect profitability and supply, in the absence of or as a supplement to price
reform. Scope for horizontal flows of investment funds is also being widened,
with enterprises investing in each other and in joint ventures and in some
cases purchases of stocks by individuals occurring. Though restrictions on
secondary trading remain, Government bonds purchased by individuals now can be
sold to banks or used as collateral for loans.
Long-term Issues and Prospects
17.       The Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party issued a major
document on urban reforms in October 1984, which reaffirmed and consolidated
recent reforms and gives some general guidelines for the direction of future
reform. It emphasizes the need for breakthroughs in the following areas:
(a) enlivening and better motivating urban enterprises; (b) clearly separating
Government and enterprise functions (and limiting direct intervention by
Covernmenc organizations in enterprises' day-to-day operations); (c) reforming
the price system; (d) improving incentives in the wage and bonus system;
(e) establishing a planning system that is in harmony with greater reliance on
the market mechanism and developing indirect macroeconomic management; (f) up-
grading managerial personnel to meet the new demands on them in a reformed
economy; (g) removing obstacles to a unified national market and promoting
cooperation and technology transfer among regions; and (h) expanding utiliza-
tion of foreign capital and advanced technology. Among the main themes of the
document are the role of competition in promoting a more dynamic, flexible
economic system; the recognition that a certain degree of income inequality is
necessary to provide better incentives for economic development; the need for
clear responsibilities and appropriate incentives at all levels in the
economy; and the recognition that thoroughgoing price reform must involve
liberalizing the mode of price determination, not just adjusting
administratively set prices. Managers of large state-owned enterprises,
however, will still be appointed by the Government organizations; a few key
products will still be subject to mandatory planning and distribution by the
Government; state ownership and control over certain institutions like banks
and railways will not be relinquished; and establishment, relocation, changing
product lines, mergers, and shutdown of enterprises will still be subject to
Government approval.
18.       The Central Committee declaration represents a political commitment
to economic reform, which will help foster an environment in which fundamental
reforms can be gradually implemented in a coordinated way. But specific
policy measures will take a considerable length of time to design and then to
implement. Many of the reforms required will be very difficult, particularly
since reforms in different areas are closely interrelated, and thus appro-
priate sequencing and coordination become essential. For example, price
reform in the absence of improvements in enterprise financial discipline will
have limited benefits, yet the more profit-oriented behavior that would result
from tighter financial discipline would exacerbate the adverse impact of
distorted prices. Similarly, reform of the labor allocation system will be
incomplete without eliminating many of the "social responsibilities" of enter-
prises (which now provide housing, medical care, and pensions for their
workers and in many cases education and jobs for workers' children) and
replacing them with Government supported social service programs.



- 6 -
19.       China's objective of quadrupling the gross output value of industry
and agriculture between 1980 and 2000 (which means GDP growth of well over 6Z
p.a.) will require significant improvements in efficiency as well as continued
high saving and investment rates. There will be major structural changes in
the economy over the next two decades, including a reduction ir the share of
agriculture, a rise in the share of industry and possibly in that of services
(which at present is unusually low), and substantial urbanization (in smaller
towns if not in large cities). There will also be a shift within agriculture,
away from grain and basic crops and into cash crops and animal husbandry.
20.       Certain physical/technical constraints will hinder the attempt to
achieve China's targets for the year 2000 and its longer-term goal of catching
up with the developed countries. Despite rapid growth and substantial
improvements in efficiency in recent vears, agriculture mav again become a
constraint on overall growth, since land in China is severely limited. In
energy, shortages of fuel (primarily coal) and eLectricity may continue to
constrain growth as they do now. Transport and commercial infrastructure will
become increasing drags on the economy without large new investments (as weLl
as improvements in efficiency). In mobilizing resources in all these areas,
China could profitably make use of foreign borrowing. Finally, the rising
share of the elderly in China's population (related to the slowdown in popu-
lation growth) means that more resources will have to be devoted to main-
taining their consumption levels, especially in the decades after 2000.
21.       Poor motivation and inefficient utilization of labor in the state
sector of the economy are a major problem which can be solved only by coor-
dinated reforms in labor allocation, the wage system, enterprise management,
and social services, among other things. Reforms in the system of education
and training to develop China's "human capital" potential also are crucial.
Backward technology and inefficient utilization of existing technology must be
dealt with by a combination of reforms, appropriately directed investment, and
transfer of advanced foreign technology. Irrational location of factories,
suboptimal scale of many plants, and poor utilization of physical capital in
general are related problems.
22.       If reforms successfully transform the economic system, with a
beneficial impact on growth and efficiency, a new set of issues will come to
the fore. Management of a reformed economy with indirect fiscal, monetary,
and other instruments is one of the most important ones. rn this context,
maintaining an adequate saving rate (if the Government no Longer accounts for
the bulk of aggregate saving) and avoiding inflation (as well as deep cyclical
downturns) will be major goals. Assuring an adequate minimum standard of
living for the population and an appropriate level of social services will
become a major chalLenge as enterprise and rural communal responsibilities in
these areas are reduced. The problem of poor, backward rural areas in various
parts of the country wiLl continue to require attention. Redistribution of
financial resources through the fiscal system, easing restrictions on migra-
tion out of the poorest areas, and lower nonagricultural wages to make invest-
ment in them more attractive are among the options for alleviating poverty in
these areas.



- 7 -
23.       The Government is now in the process of finalizing its Seventh Five
Year Plan (covering the period 1986-90). The combination of potentialLy
fundamental reforms and the urgent need for large investments in many parcs of
the economy to build the foundation for further growth makes this task a
difficult one. In order to mobilize the investment resources needed for
rapid, sustained economic growth and development, China will need to rely in
part on foreign borrowing. This is recognized by the Government, which plans
to gradually draw down its substantial foreign exchange reserves and hopes to
attract foreign capital through a variety of channels. China also has a claim
to concessionary lending because it is still one of the poorer countries of
the world. But its access to concessionary capital to finance its development
and modernization program is limited; apart from Bank Group funds, a
significant amount of concessionary capital is likeLy to come only from Japan
and a few other bilateral donors and will probably average no more than $500-
600 million p.a. during the rest of the 1980s.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
24.       For China to sustain rapid growth over the coming decades, with
increases in efficiency and innovation while maintaining equity in distribu-
tion, will require continuing and fundamental reforms. These challenges are
compounded by China's large investment requirements and the difficulties
associated with its efforts to open up to the rest of the world. In light of
this, there are several broad objectives for the Bank to pursue in its
reLationship with China. First, the Bank can offer China its development
experience and institutional knowledge as well as the opportunity for
interaction with the Bank's other member countries. Second, the Bank can
assist China in removing major constraints on development and in improving
investment planning and policy coordination in the priority sectors - particu-
larly energy, transport, other infrastructure, human development and
industry. Third, the Bank can assist the Government in its efforts to remove
the remaining pockets of poverty.
25.       The Bank Group's strategy to meet these objectives is formulated in
line with China's broad development priorities and related issues outlined in
Part I of this report. However, Bank Group lending can provide only a small
portion of overall resource needs. As a key element of the strategy,
therefore, the Bank's lending operations will aim to create a substantial
demonstration effect applicable to China's overall development efforts. For
example, projects involving new techniques for land development or for provi-
sion of social services have been designed so that they can be repeated by
local authorities within their existing resources. Some of the agriculture
projects and the rural health projects are examples of this approach. The
introduction of international competitive bidding through Bank projects (first
to finance goods, and later civil works) is now being adopted by the
Government for most local purchases and many domestic construction projects.
26.       Bank assistance can help improve the efficiency of investment,
through introduction and dissemination of improved analytical techniques for
investment and project planning and through institution building. Preparation
of the project appraisal manuals for the China Investment Bank and the



Agricultural Bank of China, consultant assistance and the EDI sponsored
programs, as well as specific sector work in Lransport, industry, health,
education and other sectors have improved the quality and content of project
proposals. Assistance to Chinese enterprises and agencies through staff
training, consultant assistance, creation or reorganization of institutions,
and improvement of costing and financial management has been included in a
number of projects ranging from the ports and railway projects to the several
education and petroLeum projects. Specific sector work in enterprise manage-
ment, urban development, health and industry has also pruvided assistance for
improvement of investment efficiency.
27.       Human resource constraints are a particularly serious problem for
China's development.  There are severe scarcities of higher level trained
manpower. Substantial economic and sector work and technical assistance and
training components in most of the Bank projects are providing support. In
terms of poverty aLleviation, the rural health project, proposed urban and
water supply projects and sector work on labor mobility and regional
development options address poverty, health and equity issues.
28.       Transfer of technology in the broad sense is of fundamental impor-
tance in China's eEforts to improve efficiency of the economy. Outmoded,
inefficient and costly industrial technologies are serious impediments to
development and are wasting valuable energy resources. Here, the Bank can
play the role of an intermediary. In transportation, energy, industry,
agriculture and even education, the Bank can finance transfer of technology
through equipment imports, provision of foreign consulting assistance,
arrangement of training and promotion of licensing and other agreements such
as are now being discussed in the railways and other projects. Long-term
investment for new t2chnology will require increased foreign borrowing in the
future and the Bank can assist China through cofinancing. Progress is being
made in introducing co-financing under the first and second power projects,
coal, urban, water, and some agriculture projects, and the Bank will continue
these efforts.
29.       For most of these elements of country strategy, however, progress
will be gradual and will require sustained Bank invoLvement over a series of
projects in various sectors.
Economic and Sector Work
30.       Economic and sector work in China was initially designed in part as
a learning experience to provide the Bank with a basis of knowledge on the
development and functioning of the Chinese economy. It also introduced the
Government to alternative ways of economic analysis and views about its
achievements.
31.       In the last four years, the above approach has been well received
and has allowed economic and sector work to be particularly relevant to the
problems of adjustment and reform which have been in the forefront for the
Government. Followup to the first economic report emphasized technical
assistance and sector work for investment analysis and selection techniques
and enhanced sector planning. The content of the lending program has been



- 9 -
directly influenced as a result. The rural credit project, the China
Investment Bank projects, and future regional industry projects are among
examples of the links between economic and sector work and the lending
program.
32.       More fundamental research into the problems of enterprise management
is now nearing -ompletion in collaboration with Chinese economic research
institutions. r: has yielded insights into the thinking and reaction of
enterprise manal,ers to system reform and led to better understanding of how
policy changes can improve planning, performance and management of
enterprises. In addition, there is a variety of project-related sector work
underway through studies included in the projects. These are expected to
produce the basis for detai'ed discussion of development opcions and policies
in the various sectors.
33.       Current economic work focuses on future options and issues to the
year 2000 and a comprehensive report will be ready Later this fiscal year. In
light of the experience of other countries in making the transition from low
to middle income levels, the report will pay special attention to inter-
sectoral linkages and cross-sectoral and economy-wide issues.
34.       Future economic and sector work will be based on the conclusions of
the economic report and will look in more detail at some of the issues
raised. It will continue to improve our knowledge of the economy - its struc-
ture, the issues and constraints in key sectors, and the functioning of the
economic management system. Collaboration on issues of institutional and
policy change with Chinese research institutions will continue. Review of the
investment program in key sectors when the Seventh Five Year Plan (1986-90) is
finalized will help develop the next generation of projects for the lending
program.
Lending Operations
35.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in
May 1980, 24 projects involving lending of $2,391 million to China have been
approved. Annex II contains a summary statement on these loans and credits as
of March 31, 1985. For this fiscal year we expect to present a total of
twelve projects to the Board. These include: the already approved projects
for Second Agricultural Research, Second Power, Second University Development,
Changun (Luan) Coal Mining, Seeds, and Rural Water Supply; the proposed
Highway Project; and other projects in railways, fertilizer production,
forestry, Pishihang-Chaohu area development and gas engineering.
36.       For FY86 and beyond, the China lending program should continue to
grow from current levels. Areas of emphasis would include development of
energy resources, transport infrastructure, skilled manpower and improved
technology. We wili also investigate the feasibility of a regional approach
in a number of sectors to take better account of intersectoral linkages.
37.      -In the transport sector, railway, port and road capacity must be
substantially increased. So far, one project each in ports and railways has
concentrated on increasing capacity, upgrading technology for lower cost



- 10 -
operations, and estabLishing better costing systems. Expanding domestic
capacity to manufacture improved transport equipment will continue to be a
theme in the sector and this should provide scope for substantial foreign
private sector involvement. Improved management and information systems and
analytical techniques for better cost control wiLl be encourage-, under the
projects, which, once proven, will be suitable for wider use throughout
Lransport enterprises. Intermodal coordination and planning and assessment of
alternative investment choices will have increasing prominence in both lending
and sector work.
38.       In che energy sector, lending has included six projects, which have
emphasized increased energy output and technology transfer through financing
of equipment, technical studies, craining and consultant assistance. The
Lubuge Hydropower Project has resulted in the Government's extensive use of
competitive bidding for power projects. Fuel alternatives for electric power,
generating plant Location and interconnection of power grids will be the
subject of future work. For development of China's petroleum and coal
resources, Bank Group assistance is emphasizing acquisition of appropriate
technologies, least cost planning of investment and related transport
investment programs.
39.       In agriculture, six projects have emphasized support services
through improved research and education, production increases through new land
development, reclamation, use of improved technologies and management, and
strengthening of the agriculture credit system and seeds development. Future
projects in forestry and agriculture credit will continue to strengthen sup-
port services and rural institutions. Land and area development projects will
endeavor to provide modeLs of integrated regional development. Specialized
activity projects such as fisheries, livestock and agro-processing may also be
developed to support on-going structural transformation in agriculture.
40.       In the industrial sector, two projects have focused on establishing
and strengthening the China Investment Bank. Improved investment selection
criteria, incentives for more efficient management, technoLogy transfer, and
energy conservation are priorities for future projects. Lending will have a
two-pronged approach - further strengthening of the China Investment Bank (and
perhaps other financial interm2diaries) and financing large regional
production-oriented projects such as for fertilizer, machine tools, and
cement, to expand output and demonstrate the merits of improved subsector
analysis and planning.
41.       Further expansion of higher education and improvement of teaching,
curricula and graduate quality will be needed to the end of the century. The
human resource constraints have already been addressed by five education
projects and a component of the Rural Health/Medical Education Project. The
value of international competitive bidding for equipment purchases and of
international advisory panels for educational policy and curriculum reform has
been demonstrated in the first projects. Improved university management is
being encouraged through establishment of quantitative targets for growth,
student-teacher ratios, classroom utilization, laboratory experiments per-
formed, and other reforms (including development of evaluation and monitoring
procedures and greater decentralization). Future projects in health, urban



- 11 -
development and water supply will assist the Government in addressing diffi-
cult poverty-linked questions of affordability, cost recovery, and minimum
standards with focus on particularly impoverished regions.
42.       Implementation.   Project implementation is generally proceeding
well. There have been some initial delays in procurement because of the
Government's unfamiliarity with the concept of bidding, but these are now
being addressed through a central procurement agency. Most project agencies,
as well as the Ministry of Finance and the State Planning Commission, have
established and staffed offices to handle Bank Group projects. To support
further expansion of the lending program, accelerate project preparation,
improve project implementation, and facilitate further economic and sector
work, the Bank Group is planning to open a resident office in China early in
FY86.
III. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
43.       Like other centrally planned economies, China's economy is very
'transport intensive." In the same land area, U.S. freight traffic is only
four and a half times the freight traffic of China with a GNP nine times as
large. This intensity of transport is explained partly by: (a) China's
economic structure, with the service sector accounting for a very low share of
GNP; (b) the historical emphasis on heavy industry, requiring the movement of
ores, steel, and other bulk products; and {c) the high level of energy con-
sumption per unit of output in China's industry (energy use per unit of GDP is
two and a half times that of other low-income developing countries).
44.       Investments.  Over the period 1949-79, some Y 110 billion, or 17% of
all new investment coming under the heading "State Capital Construction," went
to transport. In comparison to other countries, the annual investment in
China's transport sector has been relatively low, and as a result transport
has become a bottleneck to economic development. In the past, the railways
received nearly 70% of all investment in transport and communications, but
starting in the late 1970s the share of investment in railways declined to
about 50%, implying a redistribution of investment to other transport
facilities. However, the highways subsector has not yet benefitted from this
redistribution. Investment on highways has steadily decreased from 25% during
1963-65 to only 12X by the end of 1975; since then, it has stabilized at
around 15% of total transport investment. In the coming decades, much larger
investment will be needed in transport if bottlenecks to economic development
are to be avoided.
45.       Traffic Trends.  Since 1952, China's domestic traffic has grown
significantly. Freight traffic reached 1,007 billion ton-km in 1983, almost a
fourteen-fold increase. At an average growth rate of 9S p.a., the increase in
freight traffic occurred at a higher rate than growth of domestic product
during the same period. Passenger traffic multiplied by 12.5 times, reaching
310 billion passenger-km in 1983. Since 1978, growth in passenger traffic has
averaged 12% p.a., more than twice the overall rate of economic growth. As in



- 12 -
other countries, growth in transportation demand is expected to continue to
exceed the ove:all growth rate.
46.       Railways.  The railway system more than doubled in size between 1949
and 1983, when it totalled some 52,000 route-km, of which about 9,182 km were
double or multiple tracked and some 2,650 km were electrified. Further double
tracking and electrification are in progress. Rail freight traffic has grown
from about 39.4 billion ton-km in 1950 to 665 billion ton-km in 1983, at an
average rate of 92 p.a. Since 1978, freight traffic has grown less rapidly,
averaging about 4.5% p.a.  Passenger traffic by rail has grown from about 21.2
billion passenger-km in 1950 to 178.0 billion passenger-km in 1983, at an
average annual rate of 6.7Z.  Passenger traffic has risen sharply since 1978,
increasing 62Z in five years and placing heavy demand on equipment and line
capacity. Railway operations show a high Level of efficiency in track and
equipment utilization.
47.       In spite of a great increase in capacity and traffic volume, the
share of railways in freight and passenger traffic measured in ton-km and
passenger-km decreased from 79% and 73%, respectively, in 1960 to 7OX and 59%
in 1982. The traffic lost by the railways has been absorbed by highways whose
share increased from 2% to 11% for freight traffic and 18% to 36% for
passenger traffic over the same period. However, the railway is expected to
predominate for quite some time, especially for freight traffic. The Bank
Group's first involvement in China's railway sector was the Railway Project
(Loan 2394-CHA) in 1984 which financed priority infrastructure investment on
two lines as weLL as equipment, technical assistance and training to improve
electric locomotive production. A second railway project is being prepared.
48.       Highways.  Traffic on China's highways has increased steadily, par-
ticularly with recent developments in rural areas which generated a high
demand for short-distance passenger travel. Although China's road network is
now the sixth largest in the world, it is still relatively underdeveloped.
Government is planning to expand and improve the network in connection with
efforts to develop light industry and agriculture. The proposed project would
support this plan.
49.       Ports.  In the period 1976-80, port traffic increased at a rapid
average grovth rate of 11.3% p.a., reflecting China's opening to foreign
trade.  Domestic coastal shipping and inland water transport also increased
substantially. Despite vigorous efforts to achieve higher productivity, ports
became congested. A major effort to modernize ports started in the early
1970s and continues, with particular emphasis on container and bulk terminals,
the latter mainly for coal.  The Bank Group's first involvement in the China
transport sector was the Three Ports Project (Loan 2207-CHA) in 1982 which
includes a coal berth at Huangpu and container berths at Huangpu, Shanghai and
Tianjin. A second ports project is being prepared.



- 13 -
50.       Transport Policy for the 1980s.  In recent years, China's transport
development policy has focused not only on expanding individual modes but also
on establishing links between modes, incorporating new technology and
strengthening institutions. With these aims in mind, the Government dialogue
with the Bank Group has centered on: (a) constraints on capacity of both
freight and passsenger traffic; (b) the role of various modes and, in
particular, the modal allocation of short-distance traffic; (c) management of
the transport system, including policy, planning, coordination, and pricing;
(d) choice of technologies for both infrastructure and vehicles; (e) energy
conservation; and (f) staff training and development.
B. The Highway Subsector
51.       Management and Staff.   The Ministry of Communications (MOC),
through its Highway Bureau (HB), is responsible for formulating regulations,
specifying construction standards, and providing technical support to the
Provincial Highway Bureaus (PHBs). The HB does not itself construct major
infrastructure. The PHBs carry out road planning, construction, maintenance
and administration in their areas in line with general policy guidelines,
using their provincial budgets. PHBs also supervise the work of the County
Highway Bureaus (CHBs).
52.       Staff Training.  Staff of the HOC and the Provincial Transport
Departments (PTDs) are in general professionally competent, but for many years
have not been exposed to new technology and therefore often use outmoded work
methods and equipment. Although technical manpower planning and assessment of
related training needs for the highway subsector have only recently been
resumed, preliminary estimates indicate that a substantial number of
engineers, assistant engineers and technicians would be required each year by
MOC to meet proposed targets of the Seventh Five-Year Plan. There is an
argent need to strengthen and expand formal education and training programs to
upgrade skills and increase the number of technical staff. A training com-
ponent is therefore included in the proposed project to assist MOC in modern-
izing and raising staff professional standards in the highway subsector.
53.       Traffic Growth and Characteristics.  Growth of motor traffic on the
trunk highways has led to problems of road capacity and pavement strength.
Projecting annual growth rates of 15% for motor traffic and 14.5% for the
vehicle fleet, traffic volume will double in less than five years. In the
vicinity of some major cities, the annual growth of traffic is now as high as
18-19% and congestion is already a serious problem. Apart from the traffic
growth, one of the prime causes of this congestion is the traffic mix which
includes slow-moving bicycles, tractors, and animal-drawn vehicles that impede
traffic flows. Assuming that the present traffic composition continues, many
segments of the existing trunk road network will be saturated within the next
five years.
54.       The Network.  In 1983, the network comprised about 915,000 km, of
which only 173,000 kmn or about 20% were paved. Most of these pavements are of
poor quality, as they have exceeded their design life and are deteriorating
rapidly with increased motor traffic. As a result, maintenance is becoming
more difficult and costly. Current road density of about 94 km per 1,000 km2



- 14 -
or 9.1 km per 10,000 population is also low, even though the network in 1983
was already 11 times larger than that in 1949. For purposes of design and
technical specifications, the highway network is classified as Expressway,
Class 1, 2, 3 and 4, according to the amount of traffic to be carried. No
expressways have yet been built and only some 2% of the total v-ad length has
been built to Class 1 and 2 standards, i.e., for average annual daily traffic
(AADT) of more than 5,000 vehicLes and 2,000-5,000 vehicles, respectively.
The network is generally of low standard.
55.       For administrative purposes, roads are classified as trunk, county,
rural (communal), and special purpose. Trunk roads consist of national and
provincial roads and are the responsibility of the PTDs. National roads serve
as links between provincial capital cities, other important cities, autonomous
regions, ports and major transport terminals. Provincial roads serve the
provinces and cities, and have mainly been built to standards lower than
Class 2. County roads, the responsibility of the County Transport Departments
(CTDs), are usually lower than Class 3 (AADT below 2,000 vehicles). Commune
roads, which are built and maintained by local authorities, cannot meet even
Class 4 road standards (AADT below 200 vehicles), and some road sections are
impassable after severe rain. The special purpose roads, built exclusively
for mining, forestry or other purposes, are constructed and maintained by the
main user.
56.       The administrative classification of the network has become more
systematic since 1978, indicating improvement in planning and management. The
classification process revealed that some 4,000 km of national road sections
are either missing or substandard and not motorable and as such are considered
to be missing road links. Upgrading the national road network, including
construction of missing road links, is among the MOC's top priorities.
57.       The Vehicle Fleet.  Most of China's vehicle fleet is domestically
produced. Several features of the fleet are striking. First, trucks out-
number cars by about nine to one. Second, there are almost no light trucks of
less than 2 tons capacity and no large trucks of more than 8 ton capacity.
Third, vehicles have outmoded designs and very low fuel efficiency, with most
trucks being gasoline rather than diesel powered.
58.       In 1983 China produced some 140,000 trucks and is ranked tenth
largest among civilian truck producers worldwide, yet this is still not
sufficient for the huge and growing domestic demand. The entire stock of
trucks is about 1.6 million units. Assuming a very optimistic 10-year
depreciation period per vehicle, the present production would be barely enough
to replace those depreciated. With a 9% annual increase in freight transport,
a shortage of vehicles is inevitable, and the need for trucks with capacities
of over 8 tons and less than 2 tons is expected to be acute. It will
therefore be necessary for Government to increase the number of vehicles
produced and to improve their quality and efficiency so as to reduce vehicle
operating costs.
59.       The Trucking Industry.  Competition between public trucks operated
by HOC and own-account trucks (i.e., those owned by factories, communes or any
cooperative organization) is increasing. The share of own-account trucks in



- 15 -
the total fleet grew very rapidly from 30% in 1949 to 86% in 1979. However,
MOC trucks still handle more than 25% of freight traffic. MOC's trucking
industry comprises the Central Trucking Company (CTC) and the Provincial
Trucking Companies (PTCs). CTC specializes in modern, large-volume transport,
including a container crucking service. It handles longer distance inter-
provincial traffic, while the PTCs handle the shorter hauls and intermodal
transfers.
60.       Both MOC and own-account trucks share problems of misallocation and
mismanagement of truck and fuel resources which result in a simultaneous
shortage of some trucks while a large number of trucks are not fully used.
This is a more serious problem for own-account trucks, judging from their very
low average load factor of about 35% compared to the 65% average load factor
for MOC trucks.
61.       Vehicle Operating Costs, Trucking lariffs and Profit.  The CTC
reports a 30! profit/revenue ratio in che past few years, buc many PTCs
operate at a loss. Part of the problem is that a narrow range of uniform
tariffs has been established countrywide, without sufficiently allowing for
the topography and other conditions affecting local operating costs. Each
year, the Trucking Division of MOC issues a set of planned vehicle operating
cost (VOC) targets and official tariff rates which serve as guidelines for
trucking companies. The official tariff rates in 1983 were about 17% higher
than the planned VOC targets and in theory would ensure a 17% profit to
trucking companies; however, actual VOCs are in many cases higher. A greater
problem for the trucking companies is the practice of keeping many old,
inefficient trucks in their fleets which need to be maintained and overhauled
at considerable expense. Fuel, vehicle repair, and overhauls for these trucks
comprise over 40% of total VOCs.
62.       Planning, Budgeting, and Financing.  MOC and the State Planning
Commission are responsible for overall planning of the country's road network,
but are directly involved only in major projects. Approved projects are
passed on to lower level authorities for execution. Recent highway planning
has shown three main weaknesses: (a) there has been little or no planning of
roads in relation to other transport modes; (b) selection of road investments
has not been based on economic criteria; and (c) HB design standards have not
been followed by the provincial implementing agencies which adjust quality and
design specifications to reflect the availability of local funds. With Bank
assistance in planning, the use of economic criteria for road investments is
becoming an accepted practice and has been applied in selecting investments
under the proposed project. The Bank has also assisted the MOC to revise and
improve the efficiency of design standards; a stipulation that MOC would
enforce the new standards is part of the proposed project. The more general
problem of lowering design standards to suit funds available would be
addressed within the general context of pricing in the transport sector and
specifically through road user charges in the subsector. Intermodal planning
remains a problem and will be the subject of further assistance.
63.       There are two major sources of road financing:  the Capital Con-
struction Investment Budget from the central government and the road mainte-
nance tax collected by the provincial governments. Funding from the Capital



- 16 -
Construction Investment Budget is in the form of a grant or loan depending on
whether the project is considered a national investment. Et is used only for
new investment projects, not for road maintenance. The amount of capital
investment funds allocated for highways in 1981 amounted to Y 82.3 million.
Total revenues from road maintenance taxes amounted to Y 4.0 billion in 1983,
80% of which goes co maintenance and 20% for administration: this allocation
represents an expenditure of an average of about Y 3.500 per km which can be
considered high. The road maintenance fee is imposed on both MOC and social
trucks, but using different rate systems. The road maintenance fee for MOC
trucks is a fixed proportion (10-i5%) of total revenues, but for social
trucks, it is a lump-sum fee charged on the vehicle loading capacity
(Y 70-100/capacity-tonimonth). With the different systems. MOC trucks tend to
pay a lower fee than do social trucks of comparable size. The road
maintenance fee rate *s especially costly for the many trucks which are under-
used. The justification for the two types of road maintenance fee is unclear,
particularly since a uniform pricing system exists in most other areas. The
present fee-charging system should therefore be reviewed to determine its
economic effects.
64.       Engineering, Construction and Maintenance.  The engineering of road
and bridge projects is done by the Planning and Design Institutes at MOC's
central, provincial and county levels. Major road and bridge projects are
done by the HOC Planning and Design Institute. MOC's Highway Scientific
Research Institute (HSRI) provides support and advice on materials, etc., as
needed. The design standards and guidelines for engineering design are set by
MOC. Expatriate consultants are used only for specialized studies and then in
joint venture with MOC's Highway Planning and Design Institute (HPDI). Since
the workload of the HPDI is expanding in line with the increased traffic on
the highway network, the Institute would be strengthened under the project.
65.       Construction of roads and bridges was formerly done as a force
account operation by construction bureaus attached to MOC headquarters or to
the Provincial and County Transport Departments. However, in May 1984,
Government authorized the introduction of competitive bidding for civil works
projects and the establishment of construction companies from the existing
public construction bureaus to carry out works on national and provincial
roads. MOC has proposed the use of competitive bidding for the first time in
China for highways to be financed under the proposed project, and to facili-
tate this change, Bank staff and an expert on bid documentation are helping
prepare the documents required for the proposed project.
66.       National and provincial roads are generally well maintained by the
PTDs. However, maintenance of paved roads is becoming more costly, ranging
between Y 3,000 and Y 5,000 per km, due to their poor quality and the rapid
traffic growth. Maintenance of county roads at the local level is adequate in
scope and well organized, but due to the labor-intensive methods used, roads
are surfaced with large size, hand-crushed stones providing poor riding
surfaces.
67.       Statistics on road traffic accidents are neither comprehensive nor
reliable bdt the situation is far from satisfactory. The low standards of
most roads combined with the mix of slow and fast moving traffic create



- 17 -
hazardous conditions. Under- the proposed project, the HSRI would carry out a
road safety study.
68.       Highway Development:  Objectives and Strategies.  In the past 30
years, Government policy and strategy for the highway subsector sacrificed
road quality for road length. Consequently, China is faced with a network of
substantial roads that is unable to accommodate rapidly increasing traffic.
In line with overaLl sector policy for the 80's (para. 50), the MOC's broad
objectives for the highway subsector are (a) to improve the quality of
existing roads and highway management; and (b) to expand the network with
efficient aid cost-effective planning, design and construction. The Bank
Group's strategy for the subsector is to support Government's twin objectives
for highways by assisting the process of network expansion while helping to
direct development policy toward greater quality improvement. This support
would be within the framework of longer-term objectives concerned with
increasing efficiency and cost-effectiveness in meeting the increased
transport demand in the subsector. These objectives would address specific
policy, institutional and technological areas such as: improved economic
evaluation techniques for the selection of road investments; improved
intermodal planning; transport tariff and road user taxation systems;
increased efficiency in the road transport industry; improved efficiency in
construction by supporting Government's policy of competitive bidding and
development of the local contracting industry; staff training; modernization
of highway design and updating and improving construction and material
specifications; and supporting highway research. The Bank Group has agreed
with Government that a number of these objectives would be dealt with under
the proposed project.
IV. THE PROJECT
69.       In June 1983, the Government requested Bank Group assistance in
financing a program of road construction and improvement as well as the
strengthening of its overall capability to deal with the highway subsector.
The proposed project was prepared by the Ministry of Communications (MOC) and
the Highway Bureaus of the Provincial and County Transport Departments and
appraised by a Bank Group mission in October/November 1984. A Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 5408-CHA, dated April 19, 1985) is being distributed separately.
Supplementary data are available in Annex III. Negotiations were held in
Washington on April 1-5, 1985 with a Government delegation led by Mr. Wang
Liansheng, Deputy Director, External Finance Department, Ministry of Finance.
70.       Objectives and Scope.  The proposed project would support Govern-
ment's objectives for the subsector by assisting in: (a) modernizing highway
design, and updating and improving construction and material specifications;
(b) improving economic evaluation techniques for the evaluation and selection
of road investments and supporting competitive bidding for public works; (c)
supporting a highway research program, with particular emphasis on improving
the condition of the paved road network, relieving road congestion and
improving road safety; and (d) strengthening staff capability through
training.



- 18 -
71.       The project would include:
(a) construction or improvement of about 230 km of national roads to
provide interprovincial road links which would allow increased and
more efficient economic activity in and between the provinces;
(b)  construction or improvement of about 1,400 km of rural roads to heLp
promote economic deveLopment in rural areas, where agriculture, the
country's primary economic activity, still employs 72% of the
country's work force;
(c) provision of computer-aided design and engineering equipment and
site investigation and related laboratory equipment for the HPDI in
order to modernize future highway designs;
(d) provision of laboratory testing and other research-related equipment
for the HSRI in support of their research program;
(e) training of staff from the MOC's Highway Bureau, the PHBs, the HPDI
and the HSRI;
(f) consultant services and technical assistance to help the MOC, the
PHBs and the Highway Institutes in the supervision and quality
control of road construction, and for the three studies to be done
under HSRI's research program and for seminars and workshops as
needed; and
(g) purchase of basic road maintenance equipment for selected provinces.
72.       Road Construction/Improvement.  The 230 km of national roads to be
constructed or improved under the project comprise seven road sections located
in six provinces. Estimated present traffic on the roads is relatively heavy
and ranges from 264 AADT to 3,064 AADT. One road has been designed to Class 1
standard, two roads to Class 2 and the remainder to Class 3. The roads were
selected by the Provincial Transport Departments (PTDs) as the missing links
in the nationaL network in most urgent need of construction or improvement.
Detailed feasibility studies and detailed engineering were prepared by the
PTDs with guidance from MOCs Highways Bureau; contract documents for interna-
tional and local competitive bidding are being prepared with the guidance of
Bank Group staff and the help of an expatriate consultant financed under
Technical Cooperation Credit (Credit 1412-CHA).
73.       The 1,400 km of rural roads to be constructed or improved under the
project consist of 59 road sections in six provinces. The roads have been
designed to Class 3 and Class 4 standards, which are appropriate. The roads
have been selected by the County Transport Departments which have also
prepared the feasibility studies and detailed designs with the guidance of the
PTDs and MOC's Highway Bureau. Assurances were obtained from Government that
design standards and construction of the road sections would be as agreed with
the Bank Group (Section .3.01(a) of and Part A.1 of Schedule 4 to the draft
Development Credit Agreement).



- 19 -
74.       Assistance to the Highway Planning and Design Institute.  The
Institute assists in planning and supervising the designs of highways
throughout China, but its performance is hindered by outmoded equipment and a
lack of trained staff. To help the Institute carry out this increasingly
heavy work program more efficiently and more cost-effectively, staff wouLd be
trained under the project, and the Institute' s equipment would be upgraded and
modernized. Computer-aided design equipment as well as equipment for site
investigations and materials testing would be financed under the project. In
addition, an engineering data bank, including a national roads condition
inventory, would be established, and computerized management information
systems introduced.
75.       Assistance to the Highway Scientific Research Institute.  Soils and
materials testing equipment as well as staff training would be financed under
the project to enable the Institute to carry out its research program and ful-
fill its task of being the major scientific and technological research base in
China on highway transportation. Equipment and expatriate assistance wouLd
also be provided to allow the Institute to carry out three studies of (a)
strengthening, rehabilitation and maintenance of the existing paved road
network (para. 66); (b) road congestion near cities (para. 53); and (c) road
safety (para. 67). Assurances were obtained from the Government that project
studies wouLd be carried out under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank
Group beginning by July 1, 1986 to be completed by December 31, 1987, and that
the Government and the Bank Group would exchange views on the findings of the
studies (Section 3.01(a) of, and Part A.2 of Schedule 4 to, the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
76.       Staff Training.  The proposed three-year training program (1986-
1988) aims at upgrading and modernizing the skills of the technical staff in
the various fields concerned with the highway subsector. To improve the
proficiency of MOC and the PTDs, including staff from HPDI and HSRI, selected
personnel would be sent abroad for academic and practical training to be
provided under some 50 overseas fellowships in various aspects of highway
operations. In addition, MOC's Highway Institutes and the capacity of the
Provincial Transportation Technical Schools would be strengthened by:
purchasing equipment and books, training abroad of professors/instructors, and
upgrading curricula. Assurances were obtained that the training would be
carried out according to a program agreed with the Bank Group (Section 3.01(a)
of, and Part A.3 of Schedule 4 to the draft Development Credit Agreement).
77.       Consultant Services.  A total of about 50 man-months of expatriate
consultant expertise would be needed under the proposed project. Local
expertise available in the Institutes in the sector would be used to the
extent possible.  Expatriate help would be sought only for those areas of
advanced technology where local expertise is lacking. Supervision of the
national road construction or improvement works will be done mainly by local
staff supported by a number of key expatriates; about 20 man-months of foreign
expertise would be needed to help set up and implement the organizational
systems and procedures for effective quality control on site. About 15 man-
months of expatriate expertise would be needed for the studies to be done by
the HSRI and about another 15 man-months to help with seminars and workshops



- 20 -
on specialized topics related to the highway sector. During negotiations,
agreement was reached with Government on Terms of Reference for the consulting
services. Consultants would be employed under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank Group and in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
78.       Road Maintenance Equipment.  Maintenance of the existing rural roads
is difficult because the roads are mostly surfaced with uncompacted large size
hand-crushed stone, which gives a very rough riding surface. The level of
service of these roads could be greatly improved with the appLication of fine-
crushed material compacted to a dense layer. Under the project, some
maintenance equipment, such as motor graders, mobile crushers and smooth-wheel
rollers, would be provided to the CTDs for che maintenance of these roads and
the rural roads to be constructed or improved under the project.
79.       Project Cost and Financing.  The total project cost, including
contingencies, is estimated at about $169.4 million equivalent, with a foreign
exchange component of $72.6 million or about 43%. The base cost estimates are
in March 1, 1985 prices. Physical contingencies are caLculated at 10% of base
cost estimates. For the calculation of price contingencies, it is assumed
that exchange rate adjustments will, on average, be made to maintain
"purchasing power parity" during the project impLementation period. On this
basis, price escalation for both foreign and local costs: (a) when expressed
in U.S. dollars, is based on expected international annual inflation rates of
5% in 1985, 7.5% in 1986, and 8% in 1987-1989; (b) when expressed in Yuan, is
based on expected domestic inflation of 3% p.a. in 1985-1989. Taxes and
duties on construction are estimated at $11.8 million equivalent. Civil works
costs are based on work quantities calculated from detailed designs; equipment
costs are based on manufacturer price quotations.
80.       The Bank loan of $42.6 million and IDA credit o  SDR 30.3 (US$30
million equivalent) would finance about 43% of total project costs or about
100% of the foreign exchange costs. The Government would provide about $104.0
million to meet the remaining capital costs of the project.
81.       Implementation.  MOC will have overall responsibility for project
implementation. The national roads will be constructed and improved under
unit priced contracts under the supervision of the Provincial Transport
Departments (PTDs), which are part of the provincial governments but under HOC
leadership. Construction Bureaus presently attached to the HOC or PTDs which
have satisfactory experience on road works and adequate resources are being
set up as financially and legally independent construction companies to bid on
the national road contracts. These companies will form the basis of the new
contracting industry in China.  PTDs will supervise the contracts through a
project management unit to be established in each province; each unit will be
comprised of a project manager, engineer, supervisor and other staff as
needed. Construction of national roads is expected to start in late 1985 or
early 1986 and be completed in three years. Construction or improvement of
rural roads would be carried out under force account for reasons of
efficiency. The CTDs have welL organized and experienced construction units
with adequate resources and ready access to local materials and local labor,
enabling them to start work without delay. Because the works are generally
small in scope and are located in remote mountainous areas, international



- 21
contractors are unlikeLy to be interested, nor would the preparation of
detailed engineering and bid documents to ICB standards be cost-effective for
such low standard roads. Similarly, for domestic contracting, there are at
present virtually no local contractors for such work in these areas, and the
construction companies newly-formed for purposes of national provincial road
construction and upgrading would face substantial mobilization costs, given
the lack of familiarity with these areas and their remoteness. The
construction units would be directly supervised by the County Transport
Departments, but under the overalL control of the PTD project management
units. Construction of rural roads would start by late 1985 or early 1986 and
be compLeted in two years. Road works included in the project represent the
total road programs of the various provincial and county governments involved
during the project period. Under the project, specialized expertise would be
made available to both the provincial and county authorities to help them set
up suitable organizations with appropriate systems and procedures to control
the quality of work. Project road construction is within the capacity of the
implementing agencies.
82.       MOC and the project provinces will enter into a Project
Implementation Agreement setting out their respective responsibilities in
project implementation. While the Bank Group would not be a party to this
agreement, signing of the Project Implementation Agreement on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank Group would be a condition of loan/credit
effectiveness, and noncompliance with its provisions would be grounds for
default under the loan/credit. (Sections 3.03(a), 5.01 and 6.01(a) of, and
Part B of Schedule 4 to, the draft Development Credit Agreement, and Sections
3.01(a), 4.01 and 5.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
83.       Procurement.  Construction of national roads would be carried out
under international and local competitive bidding (ICB and LCB). The China
National TechnicaL Import Corporation (CNTIC), in conjunction with MOC, would
organize the ICB. MOC and the provinces will organize the LCB. Local bidders
would be required to be financially and legally autonomous. Two major
national road contracts ($44.4 million) would be carried out through contracts
awarded on the basis of ICB by prequalified firms in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines. The other national roads ($22.0 million), which are
unlikely to attract international contractors because of their location and
size, would be awarded on the basis of LCB. To support the Government's move
toward competitive bidding for civil works, Bank Group staff and an expatriate
specialist in contract documentation are helping MOC prepare the bid documents
neaded for ICB and LCB for the national road contracts; the expatriate
assistance is being financed under Technical Cooperation Credit (Credit
L412-CHA). Construction or improvement of rural roads ($94.1 milLion) would
be carried out under force account. The PTDs would sign priced agreements
with the county governments for this work. During negotiations, agreement was
reached with Government on a priced Bill of Quantities for each rural road
subproject in order to establish a firm and agreed cost.
84.       Road maintenance equipment ($2.3 million) would be procured by ICB,
but as the equipment to be procured for the HPDI and HSRI and ($1.4 million
and $1.7 million, respectively) and for the training component is highly
specialized, limited international bidding from at least three suppliers would



- 22 -
be used. However, items or group of items estimated to cost Less than the
equivalent of US$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent of US$300,000, may be procured on the basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at Least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank
Group. CNTIC or another authorized government agency would be responsible for
all equipment procurement. A summary of project procurement arrangements is
given below.
Procurement Method                Total
Project Element                  ICB         LCB      Other            Cost
C---------  (S million) -------------
Civil Works
National Roads                     44.4        22.0         -           66.4
(20.5)     (10.2)        -           (30.7)
Rural Roads                            -           -        94.1           94.1
(33.1)        (33.1)
Equipment                             2.3          -         3.2            5.5
(2.3)                 (3.1)          (5.4)
Training and Consultants               -           -         3.4            3.4
_____       (3.4)           (3.4)
Total                           46.7       22.0      100.7          169.4
(22.8)     (10.2)    (39.6)          (72.6)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
Group.
85.       Under ICB, qualifying domestic contractors and manufacturers would
be permitted to participate and would be eligible for a margin of preference
of 7-1/2% for civil works and 15% for goods, or the prevailing customs duties,
whichever is lower, in the evaluation of bids. Since this would be the first
time that contracts would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding in
the highway subsector in China, all contracts for civil works and equipment
would be subject to prior review and agreement by the Bank Group.
86.       Disbursements.  Disbursement of the loan/credit would be as
follows: 46% of the total cost of national road construction; 35% of the
total cost of rural road construction; 1OOX of foreign expenditures for
directly imported equipment, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) and 75%
of local expenditures for other items locally procured; 100% of the costs of
foraiga consulting services and local experts; and 100% of the costs of over-



- 23 -
seas training of staff. To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account would
be opened in US dollars in a Bank acceptable to the Bank Group with an initial
deposit of the US dollar equivalent of SDR 10.0 million, which represents the
estimated expenditures for a four-month period. Applications for
replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted quarterly or whenever
the Special Account is drawn down to 50% of its initial deposit, whichever
comes first.
87.       Loan/credit disbursements would be made as follow.s:  against priced
contracts for national road civil works and equipment; priced agreements for
the force account civil works on ruraL roads; actual costs for training over-
seas; and against statements of expenditure for the training component and for
goods or services costing less than US$50,000. The project would be completed
by June 30, 1990. Loan Closing is expected by June 30, 1991. Project
disbursements are expected to be completed slightly earlier than the regional
profile shows. Since China's economy is growing steadily, revenue accrual is
expected to remain strong during the project period and therefore delays due
to budgetary constraints are not anticipated.
88.       Auditing, Reporting and Monitoring.  The State Auditing Agency (SAA)
has been established to carry out detailed audits of government agency
accounts. Assurances were obtained from Government during negotiaticns that
the accounts of project-related expenditures would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank Group, and that audit reports would be sent to
che Bank Group for review within six months of the close of the fiscal year
(Section 4.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Bank Group
currently accepts SAA audits for this purpose. Project progress reports would
be submitted to the Bank Group quarterly by MOC, and a Project Completion
Report would be prepared by Government and submitted to the Bank Group not
later than six months after the Loan/Credit Closing Date.
89.       Environmental Effects.  The road improvements should cause no
significant environmental problems. By following existing alignments to the
extent technically and economically feasible, the acquisition of scarce
agricultural land will be minimized. The improved alignment and reduction of
existing hazardous dust and mud by paving would improve road safety.
90.       Justification, Benefits and Risks.  China's new economic policy is
creating a rapidly growing demand for both long- and short-distance road
transport. The rapidly increasing output of textile, chemical, electronic and
food processing industries, which are all well suited to road transport, has
been accompanied by a growing demand for transport between cities and often
across provincial boundaries. In rural areas, agricultural production as well
as the increasing production of household and rural enterprises must be trans-
ported, often very rapidly, to nearby towns aS,t other neighboring areas.
Further, various enterprises have come to realize the financial advantages of
highway transport, which enables them to deliver industrial goods and perish-
able products rapidly and promptly to cities. The development of tourism
throughout China and the very rapid increase in highway passenger traffic have
also indicated the need for substantial development of highway infrastructure



- 24 -
to serve the various and steadily increasing needs of China's economy. The
proposed project would address these needs.
91.       Since the national road sections included in the project are missing
links in the network, traffic would be diverred from more circuitous routes.
The 1984 traffic levels on the existing roads range from 264 AADT to 3,064
AADT. Tratfic volumes are estimated to grow by 9X p.a. from 1984 to 1988,
when the roads would be opened. Allowance for generated traffic was made by
increasing the growth rate to 12% p.a. for two years following opening of the
roads and then a gradually decreasing growth rate over the pr.)ject life. The
main benefit expected from the construction of national roads is substantial
savings in vehicle operating costs (VOCs) resulting primarily from distance
savings and to a lesser extent from reduced VOCs due to improved surface
conditions. Other benefits such as time savings and reduced accidents and
congestion on the existing alternate routes are smailer and have onLy been
quantified when significant on roads with the highest traffic volumes.
92.       The benefits of rural roads to be constructed or improved under the
project comprise transport cost savings as well as value added to production
which the roads would make possible by reducing transport costs. The benefits
would accrue to residents of the areas served, which are now accessible only
by trails, with all transport by porters. The transport cost per ton km would
fall from Y 3 - Y 4 at present to Y 0.2 with the roads. The largest benefit
would be in terms of value added through the exploitation of resources which
are uneconomical at the prevailing transport cost and impractical in terms of
the hard labor involved. Since the proposed roads to be constructed are in
the more hilly areas of the various provinces included in the project, the
resources are mainly from coal mining, construction materials, marble, timber
and bamboo production; and only to a lesser extent from increased agricultural
production of cash crops.
93.       Based on the combined costs and benefits of all project roads and
some minor maintenance equipment to be provided under the project, the overall
ERR of the project is 20%.
94.       The main project risk is the possibility of delays in implementation
and benefits due to the introduction of ICB and LCB. To minimize this risk,
appropriate Bank Group assistance and supervision will be provided in the
early project stages. It is unlikely that traffic growth will be lower than
estimated since road transport in China is at an early stage of development
and the potential for growth is very larLte. Traffic growth may well be higher
than estimated. The risk is therefora very, low that the rate of return would
fall below the above estimate. Sensitivity analysis shows that if construc-
tion costs increased by 20%, the ERR would fall to 17%.



- 25 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
95.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of China and the Association, the draft Loan Agreement between the People's
Republic of China and the Bank, the recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors.
96.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of effectiveness would be that (i) China's State
Council shall have approved the Development Credit and Loan Agreements; and
(ii) the project implementation agreement between the Government and the
project provinces shall have been executed under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank Group.
97.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and Association.
PART VI - Recommendation
98.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
and credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 23, 1985
Washington, DC
4



-26-                                                 ANNEX I
Page L of 6
Culu&.          UP 31. 0o - SOCIAL [t      DA  3
cvuN.  , s, up. or              U--       NC  RcOUPS (VWCXTED AYIEAGIS) /a
NONT                 (MST NECU  ESTUGTA) lb
19o         i97Qk            5t ASIA  PACIFIC               A5z*4 rric
TTaL                                951.0        9341.0       9581.0
ACRICILTAURL                        3257.8       2311.0      2145.9
LM  CAPITA CUS)                          40.0 Ic      10.0        310.0          273.8                    1091.2
- mv!EI.M CAPITA
(tULOGUI  OF OL IOOvALZT)            191.0        230.0       420             272.0                     567.3
IIuLunOu Am YWAL 3UECS *
,OPOLAT mNA-TRA. (?MoAM)   "7100.0    543700.0   1003175.0                       *
um PO10U1111 (Z 0F TOTAL)             13.4 Id        ..        10.             21.7                       4.;
Po ToI&0   OJECnT
PoLATION 11 n1u 2000 (N.L)                                  11%8.3
SnT.0MT NPOPULATMI (IKLL)                                  1441.0
IOPUIATIU NWMIhI                                               1.7
II SQ. MI.                          71.9         U.5         103.5          18".                      281.9
MR SQ. M. AGRI. uD                 211.1        217.9       234.3           245.S                    1735.1
PO1U.TION am  STICEWE (1)
0-14 us5                            3.9         37.7         30.9           35.3                      39.0
15-8  IRS                           34.3         21.2        63.3           5".                        57.4
85 AND 439 M.                                     3.1          5.5            4.3                       3.3
POIWLATION CILO    RATE (t)
TOL                                  1.3          2.1          1.5            1.9                       2.3
caw                                   ..          ..           ..             4.1                      4.3
CRUDE 3X13 RATE (M  TUG0S)            39.2 /a      34.0         13.5           27.7                      30.1
c3   D0AXS UTZ (M 1TOM)               23.5 7a      10.1         8.8            10.1                      9.5
GYWSS W300 0TION SA7T                  2.5 re       2.3          1.2            1.1                      2.0
PLAJ    PLANNINc
ACRTS. AIN         30S)               .. 
OSC25 (Z 0o N l  WmEs)                ..           ..        89.4 if           ..                     52.7
FM  Amm  m     iid 
XW OF FO0D 01OD. LU CLPITA
(1589-71-100)                           ,,        100.0       124.0           112.5                     123.0
In CAPIiA SUPPT OF
CALORIES (1 or 3WIRM1 NTS)          93.0          .0         107.0           97.7                     114.4
PROTINS (CAS PU DAT)                56.0         53.0        88.0            36.3                     57.0
OF UI_  AHD  L ANMD POISE         1.0          18.0         17.0 kA        14.9                      14.1
CDID (ACEG  1-4) DEA    t   'ATE      26.0         14.0          7.0            9.3                       7.2
LIFEXPECT. AT r312  (TEARS)           41.0 lb      12.2        84.5            h0.0 0.4
IWAUT  ORT-. EAT! (PE  T300S) i* s. o             109.0        67.0            83.8 t.3
ACCSS TO SAP! VAEI  (510?)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..                        32.9                      37.0
tUNAS                                 ..          ..                         70.9                      54.8
383MAL                                 .                     3o-0            22-1                      24.4
AeCS TO 131?A DISPOSAL
(S Or POPoMTIOE)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..          ..            13.1                      41.3
1311                                  ..           ..          ..            72.J                     47.4
_1                                    ..          ..                          4.4                     33.3
POrVLATInO  >LU PJUCTAI             3390.0 11   3830.0 11   18100 it        3484.2                   7749.4
POP. LU  OIWSIJ PtSOn               4050.0-      2570.0      1790.0          4793.1                   2460.4
POP. LU EOSPITAL DBD
TOTAL                             1040.0        780.0       490.0          1084.5                    104.2
Gal"                               210.0          ..        160.0           291.0                    851.2
IDEAL                            10140.0           ..       1020.0         5"3.4                    259.4-
SS13S LU NOSPAL  ID            ._                    ..          ..       --                            27.0
*        sor S I OOSCDeLD
TOtAL                                 _  ..                    5.2
031*3                                 ..           ..          a.2             .         
303!.                                             ..          5.5
A*UAE NO. OF PERSONSIROOR
TorAL                                 ....
35*.                                  ..           .....
ACSS TO ELrCT. (C OF OWELLIICS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
en."                                                           .. 
Rum.                                                            ....



-27-                                         ANNEX I
Piag rof 6
MPIS.   U  LI i1Fv. @7  1 0G1A  ZIIIATM  DATA
HUA. rTuLII Up. aF - *ea  UEFUINI T                b I               E
MI!           T       (MM  3135 U!N
31mW        L~U  InCUS.          51301  Ii!5
a|Qek.   11e   Amu                    A114 A rAFIC            A" a mSine
u sT! ZSLNUST  "Tiso
1DFIAI    TOTAL                     106.0        110.0         16.-o           97.4                     11.0
NAZ                         ..           ..        136.0           11.a                      10s.
r                           ..           ..        106I.0           237                       N.2
5t0UDARYm TOTAL                     21.a         23 a          ".0             35.9                      46.0
NALE                       ..           ..          3.0               .                       46.7
FEN"                       ..           ..           5.0            2.                       43.
UWCAIfOl L (I of S3UNSUM)                ..          ..           LI              2.2            *         17.5
uIxL-IRAcin  361T2O
PmURT                                 ..           ..          26.0            36.5                     3A.8
n                                      ..          ..          17.0            16.7                     23.5
ADULT LzT1AC   am5  CZ)                3.0          ...         H.0             53.'                     72.9
PASSI        C SQ0f    POP               ..          ..           0.2    O         .                      10.1
unto UCZURS mM   o0                     ..          14.2        L63.2 132.                               113.6
TV RCEIWERSu0OBAN NO                     ..          0.6         27.4            15.7                     50.=
N1Z1KpA1 (3 IILY LIkAZ
ifrTUST) CZRCUoTION
T!DAN  MIULATl                       ..           ..           ..             16.2                     5.9
C2EU1A AENUIL ATIEIUMISCU ITA            ..          ..           ..             3.6                       3.4
TOTAL LL08R FORM (hOUS)           32166.0    310335.0    472646.0
FMLS (133031E!)                     36.3         36.0         37.2            32.3                      32.5
&LIULTURZ (Ps3301r)                   ..           ..         66.9             f.o                      32 2
- nTht (r1rW)                          ..          ..         1U.7            1.                        17.9
?AITZIPATOUM RATE (13Z.033?)
TOAL                                 60.          45.0         47.0            62.6                     3.7
VALE                                 55.9         54.5         57.2            56.7                     50.9
r361.                                27.0        35.0         36.0            29.3                      26.4
zcuac onvoomUC RATIO                    0.9          1.0          0.6             1.0                      1.1
PERCE 1 IITOFMATE IUCOU!
11WTr or rovAn om                                              125 
RIssT 5   or  USZOLDS                  ..          ..           .                ..                      2.
Law      202 o 6     .DS               ..          ..         G.w.               ..                     68.0
W 3 402CoF GROOM                    * :.           ..         1S.5               ::                     15.
-          630SSOLZ POVTY INCOS
IZYIL cuss rc  c*rr
CR563              -.           -.           -.          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~123.9       183.6
a                                      ..          ..           ..            111.6                    L52.0
ZSTMAom  33Z0A113 iovnm  zpm
.L . CSS CnE CItI)
-                                      ..          ..           ..              ..                     177.9
RRL..                                              ..           ..              ..                     106.
UTDnI    P0P. suZLflI A3SOLUT
rovzur xDa  LUl  (I)
ass"K                                 ..           ..           ..            43                        23.4
rL                                    ..           ..           ..            517             -7.7
NOT ATAIIAMMNOTE
..Wr *VPLEAL
A   the gzoup avrage  for *eab IdIcater are pp.plULtowluhtd arithmtic    _           Coerae of coesrlae  tmes the
ladcatcta depeodan availabLilIty of Ata ad is wt mlfe_.
/b  Unions oethreLoeed. -Data tar 1900 refer to my yer betame 1959 and 1941; -Dta for 197re beteen 1t4e and
1971: an  data for -Nmt brent  laett-' bot.. t_    60 an  1582.
tc  laterp.l-tod 1357-2 d"ta  /d 1944;  la 1355-1945 average;:    f ?rreuta. of all, t orrled. of CbId bosea3
age precticing coatracep:ou; / 1 7;  /b 1955.4 aw_rag.  Il Senior doctor of wasters rdic L_;
[ Dietriucio  of people                       v.a      c-Pta Ld . 1979 date.
*A   PoulatLou a* vital *tatiatica are San  astimetas t-ch dLifor from Ciulee official statietce.
Fermi odeaclo only; on-forel gurllnOt is *htaatLal.
DefIaitos ani courage differ froe t_*e- of Caoi_ offical *catlatIc.
JmNQ. 198



-28-                                                              ~~~~~~~~Page 3of 6
das"Usad-Lffk*".-  ifie let .esal.wiis d.seiv  i         ita        tu ee aJ.         sta.. is 0ll  .5d.s I-h.t   --i  ii.me
W. sa    N."    -  sea.8    -iacwsr atmp mi a"   taimse.  allcE  myf.salnate  5.1, eihut  itap..-ut a.- .m  at.                        a   sai, I. 
nIs cam   . ii   tss                                                                           Nol..ifam.d 0  t.it.  .iiltsas h  c   tin   in
t"        toP.ie ste  enlm i ittIL. en- etip  -mtw ii msiata,       iup ab  it.19ok inpoat,         sat         k tiu  ie   In  ihe  isom ieii        fi
Mhts      f -L p   (t.       Sli tUt.in            it9   at.  5f5   S    tush able  a smsmi. .e -ii sti   heMA...      ues.iie
siw he is  mc this  cmie.u.  te rhi nin. ci isk tei m           tmhe                  t.t55451i    tai    "d.t4"ib 'Lssiet.. m   iessb
t.vsdi  iatmq. IFi .11 -11  Sml t S. .s.shiv.   it.anuntatl -  mp  .                u55   ewfli Foet-esiat -      -ots.. R  ite   enis. ~4sko  mooi, ao
a the   tb  II!P.-9  sllsl   .-- -A                                                     bePILeWsIea.PijS    mm   b                        tid  b.8 pitiso
55h  a   em  a..                                                                                je -ass141     r    -    i.ese   ,Lt ditmi.si f. cue   utsi
Pflestul' .. Mis tt .f      9 qtmsit.mew.=a       a.tit If kptue-tti                    etaa   nee             . te..I ania   ee  peet!    ... a
i.a 1-li-p.....  -           ai Lsia .in. M      i.I   iW. fmmesa sum.                 estiw  misat.A    .Lfsla-    ti.ss
915     ms MS                                                                                       M A1ci  PiiJt5 5t   ItWM  tt.t r  t- Psd sisemi s (at
site. us, at ese;:.at.  lb    LbyfgmdpI49t                                            sas icc    -    imia   sestimene. mmtuldme . .vsipm5piims .5
asm   -LLt"_:   1910.  W on- -        msa.evl ips.ishest  sima  euh 
wp itfi -.WN    q;   i..   -Ws-   s't    eama.eti                                   a.mmttti. ewpte,sat.  es.s as .u.his meipastmeia.i.i
-4m-iseliset-amiv  it- timat- L-.8.41 .uise.5s  pt .5m   mini,-pisad lmtss.w    8a afmss.
urn,        -e  ..&  ilt.                                                                     tzszllay a link t.hn..iftmes. it if imtP.,
ol.som  8. 1`        - tt Miteis Site. it sal   sealy.m
vise.  vu.Jtme pi..-.n In eMtsimp wee  fwsi. if  t.ii         iefiiid P-fti
Ist   .iti  liii. iit.i   is . "tintk fte.ss  tub la.iti -Hsa                                                                            a  wittis-d Af-     -t-  1Wlls- -o -   9-
i t.W  me   .t.t . a   imii- . .     p iwnie  imils         it f i.-- E.1                       z:r %         .L     I: t:   :4m,    .-. m ,lsL,Lla
pIe,Al it 1.ptt  lb. .."mitL-       er  as.L.9  he she  hem     .                    atem,  a,  a  titiWm a               tmsiwepimty.L   -   p
b-ar   amine it-s witsitisdi i sea  meI.m  a. mu  tam
p5.-sq   h.wstif.a. d-ti   .ev   I.1it.1 itip     -  cs- mheis.
r-mt.e.iat  -.  a..i   t           - ae-ieest11. ewim,                                                                     ic   ets   i  i    .m
1.t-w   P-* tiepis.aim. e -.eimw. mtnmmtt                      ci.                                    ci -   piweseisit l iepete
t.n .ie t.s7  etIedat.         ee .-    .'ee     L  ten                   pfei  wni.-  n.ss           Weste .smp  m.itd   smiw. iS ii
'ipuatiti. tist).I .i i::    pitittie iLt_.  twa5.etmyn ti- P.I-sml                                    41esqa fi dfw..e  -adstr pvItewp"dittL      
a atI  . i. dtt pit,  t.     ~   s st.twe..t  a  t.ns,e, l.  .iim  a. e   tisesm   Wtims   cy  eed  ILL pes
iteth te. I.  e.. lie.ti:ttP. pipiteme.me - emeta-   a                         tp-das  I-ms...hi- seaemitm 01 .
- etttdiyli   tiat.isvt   sati.                                               ieiW = snt                                ("smei       .ittttIis icteti.a -lit.
ttmeeae    emsi   eiiteiedsii                                             ipi  e5s   wi   . a?p ' i   sn'tpaewe..i
ii. nt we   t  IipdemM.nu  h   t..dciy    It W                                        i...ttmm15 "aida.e
iieif]   -,tulcm.i it puwj ILL   u.         ie.  i                               iaia   .tstIiviitwtii  -LltePtee      .Ietce
Ps IMApima mwo s s.nmtmtd  p.eid.. -  etie    asttntjtiuiscyi       iile..                                                 .A.i  mettict-1
enri, liii dna._...t11-1e etiam.-t in-
a    iA...ntsttt   ppgj-imis   im.  ams0. t.  a ad tsi
1 g.-        a't    a    wed  -   h   S.ititti5ta                                   imn    I itSas  ptiss.std5 p.. ed   n ..
Iwo.am;  ue  sum., -a ic: a...                                                                                              -as....   TVtte, a
hesst -mt-O lb-e (ptii I -    -.b   ha      .    .i   .t WS icem tie                   L.8--i.iy      Aisi.. -     ls    seo                        .es
ti   i.attI- se ras, '  A. malsu-es. -a.-wt                               smat.teni. itt  mmia eI=      =    =mei   as  in. ift.e n   ttm
tt It FLti.e -     tta -- Lo    eas dt.i-tt p. iists.id         -t-  tt  d  e       ieeti Ctr ttnte-i ineie 1-   I_ te..t-   si -              ant
piptiattets sel. m_a,  radii a..Ii.elm                                             wti  p.5_t1dptsmimmc. .etinin  -t en...
Pe.arttii  i      ee    tht8dm.      n    i  s.iti  eei.am   u.iu  LUsmettl .Csitl nIt .-  it. efft
lCD                                                                                pitt.tm0i-sd  pstmpitttpdw-teis   n.itmin.tdt=
fat thit ~ - isntin -L-Mes- immint -  ai. ; .lbt .8  tte                                ti    dvi  icpt  tScfwieieh
...-Itit   .     ae it..ttteap   e  .ci  ns  I-.   tnt ifS     .                                                   -   .tLLIt.              klts
1-1Mtjrii!imfk -              tiecieliny. Um     a- te pa....  iaw05idi98   sue.
tetreicweni  ca  m eatd-  8t.. tfiv i-s iwsiw.                               fein.aL  aU  d.tstse     ciii   ..in,.t....i..ew.
P. -0.     ~          ittict   i   ~    slite   .nye    ttuei 
Picas          -   pAssapl-4- .PmI                              -3G ettite               ipems       d IIt,tt ga s.    at.  -    -U.pk1pL     m
Cct1stt -b.Pt mwie.-ys-iet          t       sa.stt pi -pests       !Ars         t-Pe.   in-s itt   e piptiti   ti mcmi  I-Wstd.,.A
..w.am   n..... 1id0.    lowse  tLonus--   .8se  i.    t                                       at.     nee    8  ttste.,vidn.. 
-ed etei.!tn..te.  il                    it   n-t   tt a    sut                          ties  it..-,1                                  t-- 
a-  m,.riiett.attc ,la1.LI                                                                       tsp (.P.t)-tie.  es. ZI a  fls  m- pmpmsespmm
repteli  n. F    if tcst- Ceetie ittttet --  rldfcimep   it  ttftti                                                   e!  tl,at--shtmt
o-wtuimn .1  a1 ma-i1       t  .ittai   nt pie. 'tpi-a ,w                        tett   ita,is                 ti uidut  1iiw    e..s.y
asit,afc   istn.t  epl    d, t.tel led. etLdi1p                                Ttfitsqe setam   tffieli    icme                   e  teiS
q.iimide.. it       ap.si..t  tece  t  isutat. ..    tuiw.                            (it  ptim..en  we.-Iwe.iirw
.ntis      -. it.  ilec   hy tao   ..a  -id. pmyt -us't  .     te. ..pl W                     Z'h.~p~           - ils.8   nis.  ai  5   a  sa    .
~s t.-iti man: sumses. tis a  ti   dsit.                                 mien CuWtelsuttmimh.mite-r1    w _                                    1
chot ini.  -eel cmk .eit tp--Ls  --1tes mesa W. %-.W 'Im.                             9                    .n(tOit'imabI'-ll-a  y ime 
eitppi 55e ma Ru up tim Ittpi t     i-   (a 5. LItmie e91  chit.,  s                Pram-. ittt ii pittt -IT.t DAe nf.e. dlspittt Stnie
tilisicif Si cute .8 eat pfcwmt pip dw~~~ a  N me.- it teicft a
Wsla M.     Fe  t. ( siti- b-ad    itid, u %wa i  i  itet-di  i.vtt  it                                        stt.---                 -ti           ea
a...                                                                          etPtfa.hhCL,-1' .-Lm.ksL11
mPIi(c Ts -U scmm bit m.. a- -          a_   tai.   a~ tu as                        amwdtttt   ewrntld                    C-'rs    ftw-in              wn 9--
weftedaamt  it-  tt(  title  mim-                    " sa esJu.                ptisitt   t.n.i.it.mnstiyid(eit.ee
ftL. -M-t-  mlWimiSPtit  teaeis (n.  eittti etit -.i
Itit tiit   Mite(ti  tiedi-  its ,iftd.   Sibleit wai we
itt-i i1i. eta. (timitq  i .i.amll-mit"           pneLatte 
acs  fpyititt   t-     ewes)pm"      ss. ti..ti  tei- all  i.tc.-tebaiymalt"iti
empcus   ttitii-ia  eric ante0 lL. clttci  hi                                                                teet  titi             p)ttt  ial
bytee.   itsti   t  (we p ttsn-ti  PitPa Pse.t,,1tp  ..d                                                                             it



s                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNIX I
-    -                                                  ae  f  6
iopulation    i 1,008 million (aid-1982)
GNP per capita: U81310 (1982)
CHINA - lCONOHIC INDICATORS
Annual growth (2) at constant price
Indicator                                     1957-70   1970-77   1975       1979      1980       191-      1982       1983      1984
(Cetimte)
Production
Gross output
Agriculture                                 2.2       3.4       9.0       8.6       3.9        6.6      11.0        9.5
Light industry                             8.3        7.8      10.8      9.6       15.4      14.1        5.7        8.7
Hkay Industry                             11.6        9.3      13.6       7.7       1.4      -4.7        9.9       12.4
Not Hate.ial Product (NWP)                    5.2       4.8      12.4       7.0       6.1        4.8       7.4        9.1
1957      1970      1977       1978      1979       1980      1981       1982      1983
Prices
Retail price index (1970-100)   92.2       100.0     102.7     103.3      105.4     111.7      114.4     116.6      118.3/h
NHP deflator       (1970-100)   90.7       100.0      99.1     100.5      104.5     108.4      110.5     110.9      111i.81
Exchange rate      (/US5S)        2.46       2.46      1.86      1.68       1.55      1.50       1.71      1.89       1.98/
Amount                                                             Avsrage annual grawrh
1982                  Shares of CDP (I)                         (2) at conseanc prices
National Accounts           (5 bIn)     1957      1979     1982      985      1990     1957-70      1970-79      1979-82   1982-90
GDO                          264.5      100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0           5.8       5.8       5.1        6.5
Agriculture                 97.5         ..    32.5      36.9     34.0      29.4        1.6        3.2       5.1        3.2
Industry                   107.0         ..    43.5      40.;4    43.0     45.7        12.1       8.9        7.4        8.2
Other                       60.0         ..    24.0      22.7     23.0      24.9        3.5        4.3       0.3        7.8
Consumption                  184.4       76.4    68.4      69.7     70.0      71.0        2.7        5.4       5.8        6.8
Investment                    76.0       23.2    32.5      28.7     30.3      29.8        9.8        6.8       0.9        7.0
Exports GNFS                  23.5        3.7/b   6.0       6.9      9.0       9.6         1.6/b     8.0/b    19.9        7.5
ioports GNFS                  19.4        3.57w   6.8       7.3      9.3      10.4        2.37       9.47      7.7       11.3
National savings              80.1       23.6/c  31.9      30.3     30.0      29.0
An 7 OF GDP
Public Finance                                                      1957            1979            1981            1983
Current revenues (excluding foreign borrowing)                    28.7-           34.5            31.9           29.1
Current expenditures                                              16.1            22.8            23.3           21.3
Surplus (+) or deficit C-)                                       +12.6           +11.7           +8.6            +7.8
Capital expenditures                                              11.9            16.9             9.9            9.4
Foreign borrowing Id                                               0.7             0.9             1.6            0.7
Other Indicators                                                  1957-79         1979-82         1982-90
GDP grovth rate (X)                                                5.8             5.1             6.5
GDP per capita growth rate (7)                                     3.8             3.9             5.3
Znergy consunpcion growth rate (Z)                                 8.5             1.9
ICOR                                                               5.4
Mhrginal savings rate                                              0.42
Import elasticity                                                  1.6             1.5
/a NWA basis.
7    Goods only.
7 CGDS.
Gd Gross.



-30-                                                      ANNEX I
Psse 5 o r 6
Population    ,   .008 million (mid-1952)
GNP per capita:  US$310  (1982)
CHINA - EXTERNAL TRADE
mount
(millton US$ at                Annual growth rates (t) (at constant 1980 prices)                          -
current price.)                     Actual                                 Projected
Indicator                              1983         1980        1981        1982        1983       1984         1905         1986
External Trade
Merchandise exports                22.223           17          16          6          10         14            5             5
Energy                            4.466          ..          ..          ..          ..
Other primary                     4,947          ..          ..          ..          ..
Manufactures                     12,557          ..          ..          ..          ..
Ocher                               253          ..          ..          ..          ..
Merchandise Imports                18,970           17         -9          10          29         30            8             8
Food                              2,735          ..          ..          ..          ..
Energy                               99
Machinery and equipment           3,537          ..          ..          ..          ..
Other                            12.599          ..          ..          ..          ..
Prices
Export price index (1980-100)           ..        100         103          99          89         86           90            95
Import price index (1980-100)                     100         105          91          79         76           80            85
Terms of trade index (1980-100)                   ino          98         108         113        113          112           112
Composition of merchandise trade (Z)                      Average annual increase (Z)
(at current prices )                                  (at constant prices)
1980     1981      1982      1983     1985      1990      1957-70  1970-79  1979-82  1982-85  1985-90
Exports                  100.0    100.0    100.0    1 00.0        IO1      100         1.6       8.0      12.9      9.6         4
Energy                 25.1      22.9      21.8     20.1        11         0          ..        ..
Other prioary          28.4      24.1      22.8     22.3        24        24          ..        ..
Manufactures           46.5      47.8      50.5     56.5        60        71          ..        ..
Othter                  0.0       5.2       2.9       1.1         5        5          ..        ..
Imports                 100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0         100       1on         2.3       9.4       5.4     21.9         7
Food                             19 6      22.5      14.4       16        17          ..        ..
Energy                  O. 0    0.0         0.0       0.5        0         8          ..        ..
Machinery and
equipment            27.5      24.2      19.1      18.7       24        25          ..        ..
Other                            56.2      58.5     66.4        60        50          ..        ..
Share of trade uith           Share of trade with         Share of trade with countries with
industrial countries (Z)       developing countrtes (2)    centrally planned economies (2) /a
1978    1981    1983          1978    1951    1983               1978      1981       1983
Direction of Trade /b
Exports                        37.3    45.9    42.1          51.6    50.2    53.1               11.1        3.9       4.7
Imports                        73.3    76.8    68.1          17.5    18.7    24.2                9.2       4.5        6.4
ia  Includes the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, Cuba, North Korea and Mongolia.
/b  hesed on XMF: "China - Recent Economic Developments," October 1984, p. 90b.



- 31 -                                            ANNEX I
Page rof 6
Population    :  1,008 million (mid-19B2)
GNP per capita: US$310 (1982)
CHINA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(NilLions US$ at cuarrent prices)
Actual                                    Projected
Indicator                                             1979      1980       1981       1982       1983       1984      1985       1990
Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services                    15,351    20,901    25,157    25,989    26,389    29,060    32,000    53,300
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.                  13,658    18,492    22,027    22,476    22,223    24,450    27,000    45,700
Imports of goods and services                    18,204    24,752    24,380    20,793    22,445    28,060    32,900    62,600
Of which:  Merchanditse f.o.b.                 16,212    22,049    21,047    17,830    18,970    23,710    26,900    52,600
Net transfers                                       596        500        680        412        511       600        7010       800
Current account balance                          -2,257    -3,351       1,457      5,608     4,442      1.600        800    -8,500
Foreign direct investment (net)                       -         57        265        359       478        670        800      1,500
MLT Loans (net)                                     800      1,130        416        426       899      1,000      1,200      4,000
Official                                          350        446        479        557        789        .. 9.
Private                                           450        684        -63      -131         110
Other capital                                     2.054      2,555        365       -102    -2.481    -1,070    -1,300        1,00
Change in net reserves ("-" - increase)            -597       -391    -2,503    -6,291    -3,338    -2,200    -1,500          2,000
International reserves                            7,274      7,665    10.168    16.459    19.797    22.000    23.500
of which:  gold                                 5,120      5,120      5,120      5.120     5.120
Reserves as months imports                          4.8        3.7        5.n        9.4       10.6       9.4        8.8.
External Capttal and Debt
Cross disbursements                                   ..
Concessional Lnanc                                   ..
DAC
OPEC
IDA
Other
Nonconcessional Loans                                .     .          ..         .    . -
Official export credits                            ..         ..         .
IBRD
Other multilateral                                 ..         .                      -
Private
External debt
Debt outstanding & disbureed                       ..      5,433      5.785     6,058      6,397
Official
Private
Undisbursed debt                                   ..
Debt service
Total service payments                              ..
Interest
Payments as 2 exports GNFS                         ..        5.8        8.6/a    10.9/a      5.5/a
Average interest rate on nea loans (2)                ..        ..         ..         ..         .
Average maturity of nse loans (years)                 ..        ..          .
la Including soie early repayment of principal.



- 32 -                                                  ANNEX 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1985)
Loan or                                                                                      US$ million
Credit                                                                               Amount (leas cancellation)
Number     Year    Borrower                      Purpose                             Bank      IDA    Undlsbursed
2021/1167  1981    People's Republic oE China  University Development                100.0    100.0         50.6
1261    1982    People's Republic of China  North China Plain Agriculture            -       60.0       19.6
2207    1982    People's Republic of China  Three Ports                            69.0        -        49.6
1297    1982    People's Republic of China  Agric. Education & Research              -       75.4       28.1
2226/1313  1982    People's Republic of China  Industrial Credit                      40.6      30.0        56.4
2231    1983    People's Republic of China  Daqing Petroleum                      162.4        -        110.1
2252    1983    People's Republic of China  Zhongyuan-Wenliu Petroleum            100.8        -        91.2
2261/1347  1983    People's Republic of China  Heilongjiang Land Reclamation          35.3      45.0        41.1
1411    1983    People's Republic of China  Polytechnic/TV University                -       85.0       77.5
1412    1983    People's Republic of China  Technical Cooperation                    -       10.0        8.0
1417    1984    People's Republic of China  Rubber Development                       -      100.0       74.6
2382    1984    People's Republic of China  Lubuge Hydroelectric                  145.4        -       141.6
2394    1984    People's Republic of China  Railway                               220.0        -       178.1
1462    1984    People's Republic of China  Rural Credit.                            -       50.0       41.1
1472    1984    People's Republic of China  Rural Health & Medical Educ.             -       85.0       76.1
2426    1984    People's Republic of China  Karamay Petroleum                     100.3        -        100.1
2434/1491  1984    People's Republic of China  Second Industrial Credit              105.0      70.0       170.2
2444/1500  1984    People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural Education          45.3      23.5        65.5
1516    1985    People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural Research             -       25.0       24.1
1551    1985/a  People's RepubLic of China  Second University Development            -      145.0      145.0
2493    19857W  People's Republic of China  Second Power                          117.0        -       117.0
2501    1985W  People's Republic of China  Changcun (Luan) Coal Mining            126.0        -       126.0
Total                                                          1,367.1    903.9    1,791.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                 1,367.1    903.9
Total Undisbursed                                              1,181.5    610.1
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1985)
None
/a Signed on March 15, 1985, but not yet effective.
/b Signed on March 15, 1985, but not yet effective.
lc  Approved on March 14, 1985, but not yet signed.
Notes:  (1)  Credits of $40.0 million (Seeds Development Project) and $80 million (Rural Water Supply
Project) were approved subsequent to the above date of Statement A.
(2) The status of the projects listed in rart A is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA
financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive
Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 33 -                            ANNEX III
CHINA
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project:  1 year
(b)  Project prepared by:  Ministry of Communications, and Provincial and
County Transport Departments
(c)  First mission to consider project:  April 1984
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:  October 1984
(e)  Completion of negotiations:  April 5, 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  September 1985
Section IE: Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
More frequent supervision during the initial project period.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        Assurances would be obtained from Government that:
(a)  Road sections included in the project and design standards used in
construction would be as agreed (para. 73);
(b)  project studies would be carried out under terms of reference and in
accordance with a schedule acceptable to the Bank Group, and that
Government and the Bank Group would exchange views on the findings
of the studies (para. 75); and
(c)  training would be carried out according to an agreed program
(para. 76).



_~~~ ~ ~~~                                    ~~~~~~~~~ rN.  - - .
)~~~-                ., L     '    S,   S     K                 -                  < .  ''  h                 (     _     <
If~~~~~~~~~~
A F ~     ~       S 
Th.-  Wbrf   . staff                                                  C
rneoi &W  aJ esLm for e V4r'*'                                                                       x     rt          L          1  
trW usIhe onof _r. VANW 111..                                                                                                                  V.
Sl sI nwe 0r r l                                    r                                                    M  O   NJ     C     r I'
OAF.O Thes nV  B n,*> and rb //'\hev
r > r d   o ol   n c e   C r oan e kn     . ..                                                                  
NWp"nVrone sJ he imesrsw frSr\t5    
'   s er or ami:a..                                                                                it of
I~=  -  -.' s. >--
.  ~          ~             ~            ~          ~ -I   I  i                                                               rtt|-                           & ;
TRANSPORT SYSTEM;            ,;--- 
RailwaVs                                                                5      \      / '= \}t > 
Double Track 
- Single Track <EC 
ue Airports                                                     .;        .~              2.         '~ 
1.     MajoF Ports)
al .  c.a'.t 
e      Provindal CaPitals                                                 .*      ' i.                    r 
 Major Towns tiga8st h.
Provincial Boundaries                                         5!       *j 7            z        ^
-e    - as eInternational Boundaries Vn s                                                   O e
Icr ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~/ *-le eaanc  .f Df  VIOr_RAT  ey                                          .
enleflhSl use  -    a
cad at The ttfld Bank and the ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~         ~        ~       ~        ~       ~        ,           \
.h-leuna_h_o_ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __a___ , a C n.                           _                                                     P       E     .
TRANSPORT SYSTEM                                                                      5<~~~~~~EM-CRTI
K   x~~~~~~~~~~~                                                  .~~~EUBI
Roads   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                              HIL  .)



IBRD 1871
r t/,                              I4a
*'1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
/     "-          -   .1.0        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  VIod.oo,to&                     W
A"~~fl        DEMOCRATIC
PEOPLE'S                    JAPAN
. ~ ~   'iA(.- ~~~OF KOREA
h                                Of _ 
UlelInb4..HA 4, jfSH
N_-.                      DAOCTC -;
l -  a                          .,5 Do II4
-vam~~~~~~~ia
\ _ <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DCME 1984OREA- 
.            <-, ,.X                                                                                                             .
Noon.                 ?         _         S W7n
-    -'I,                                                 H.N-4 H
; <      .+k,.~~~ .-  -t HON  ,OG.,
..                          ,.'- MCO0,'
Ff~~~~~~~~~'.!  0             '00    200    1G    4V      0
'orffSt t
-  Zonn>~~\Y,,ai n                  c
___-_>_______-___'__________HONG__KONG,_____ IC
~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ~~~~~~~~~DCMBERO P984






