                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 35390

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-31490)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR97.9 MILLION

                                                    TO

                                                  INDIA

                                                FOR THE

                 MAHARASHTRA HEALTH SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                              May 26, 2006




Human Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                               (Exchange Rate Effective May 15, 2006)

                                      Currency Unit = Rupees
                                            Rs. 1.00 = US$ 0.02
                                            US$ 1.0 = Rupees 45.07

                                            FISCAL YEAR
                                         April 1   - March 31

                               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ALOS    Average Length of Stay                      MCCD        Medical Certification of Cause of Death
BOR     Bed Occupancy Rate                          MHSDP       Maharashtra Health Systems Develop Project

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                 MTR         Mid-Term Review
CHC     Community Health Center                     NGO         Non-government organization
CTDF    Common Treatment & Disposal Facility        OPD         Out-patient department
DH      District Hospital                           PAD         Project Appraisal Document
DHS     Directorate of Health Services              PGB         Project Governing Board
DMC     District Management Committee               PM          Project Manager
DO      Development Objective                       PMC         Project Management Committee
FMS     Financial management system                 PIP         Project Implementation Plan
GOM     Government of Maharashtra                   PSR         Project Status Report
GOI     Government of India                         RRI         Rapid Results Initiative
GR      Government Resolution                       QA          Quality Assurance
GT      Gokuldas Tejpal                             SC          Scheduled Castes
HCWMP   Health Care Waste Management Plan           SCD         Survey of Cause of Death
HEMR    Health Equipment Mgt. & Repair Unit         SDH         Sub-Divisional Hospital
HMIS    Health Management Information System        SHSP        State Health Systems Projects
HVC     Hospital Visiting Committee                 SPC         Strategic Planning Cell
IDA     International Development Association       ST          Scheduled Tribes
IDSP    Integrated Disease Surveillance Project
IEC     Information, education and communication
KPI     Key Performance Indicators



                                    Vice President:    Praful C. Patel
                                 Country Director:     Michael F. Carter
                                   Sector Manager:     Anabela Abreu
                Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Jagmohan S. Kang

                                            INDIA
           MAHARASHTRA HEALTH SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33
Annex 8. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report                             35
Annex 9. Additional Analysis of Health Sector Allocations                        50

Project ID: P050651                                                  Project Name: MAHARASH HEALTH SYS
Team Leader: Jagmohan S. Kang                                        TL Unit: SASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 30, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: MAHARASH HEALTH SYS                                      L/C/TF Number: IDA-31490
   Country/Department: INDIA                                                              Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Health (92%); Sub-national government administration (8%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); Other communicable diseases (P); Indigenous peoples (S);
                            Gender (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/24/1997                                     Effective: 02/24/1999
     Appraisal: 10/26/1998                                         MTR: 06/30/2002                  11/13/2002
      Approval: 12/08/1998                                      Closing: 03/31/2005                 11/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF INDIA/GOVERNMENT OF MAHARASHTRA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Heinz Vergin
Country Director:               Michael F. Carter                              Edwin Lim
Sector Manager:                 Anabela Abreu                                  Richard L. Skolnik
Team Leader at ICR:             Jagmohan S. Khan                               Tawhid Nawaz
ICR Primary Author:             Shreelata Rao Seshadri


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
The ICR team has used the new six point rating scale and rated the outcome Moderately Satisfactory.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project (MHSDP) was the third State Health Systems project
financed by the International Development Association (IDA), strengthening health systems at the
secondary/first referral level of care. Its Development Objectives (DOs) were to assist the Government of
Maharashtra (GOM) to: (i) improve efficiency in the allocation and use of health resources through policy
and institutional development; and (ii) improve the performance of the health care system through
systematic enhancements in the quality, effectiveness and coverage of health services at the first referral
level and selective coverage at the community level. The DOs were justified based on the fiscal situation in
the state and the priority needs of the health sector identified in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD).
The state was facing a rising fiscal deficit, leading to reductions in allocations to the social sectors,
including health. Within the health sector, resources were largely absorbed by salary and administrative
costs. Further, allocations were skewed towards tertiary care relative to the needs of the primary and
secondary levels. Through MHSDP, assurances were obtained from GOM that it would undertake reforms
to increase financing and improve resource allocation for the health sector. Again, the Ninth Plan
(1997-2002) as well as the Central Council of Health and Family Welfare had pointed to the need for
strengthening capacity to provide curative care, along with the longstanding commitment to preventive and
promotive care. Many states, including Maharashtra, were facing an epidemiological transition, and
therefore a double disease burden with an unfinished agenda in communicable disease control and a rising
challenge of non-communicable diseases. Strengthening the secondary or first referral care was necessary
to meet this challenge.

The project was in line with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS; Report No. 17241-IN; December 19,
1997) of supporting states that were undertaking economic restructuring programs, supporting sectoral
policy reform, strengthening institutional capacity, upgrading quality and effectiveness of services and
enhancing community participation in service delivery. The value-added of Bank support for this project
was that it (i) reinforced the importance of the state as the unit of account for health programs, since under
the Indian Constitution, health is a state subject; and (ii) provided an opportunity to focus on health
financing and human resource issues. Finally, the required investment for enhancing service quality and
coverage of the secondary level of care was of a scale that could only be provided by the Bank.

The project was complex, as it combined a large component focused on upgrading infrastructure with an
ambitious package of policy reform. The Bank had previous experience with such projects, but none of
them had been systematically evaluated at the time of preparation of MHSDP, to test which interventions
were likely to be most effective. The issues that the project chose to address required a fundamental shift in
the way the Health Department did business, towards quality and accountability.

A Quality Enhancement Review (QER) of all State Health Systems projects was undertaken on July 31,
2002. While concluding that "that there was no doubt that the projects had generally been prepared and
implemented appropriately", the QER pointed to problems inherent to all State Health Systems Projects
and the MHSDP is no exception: (i) The DOs did not explicitly identify improvements in health status as a
monitorable project outcome; (ii) The project did not focus sufficiently on the poor. The project was
designed at a time when a strong pro-poor focus was not the norm, and did include activities targeted at
improving access to health services amongst tribals; and (iii) Although the private sector played a dominant
role in health care provision, the project did not seek to expand its partnership with the private sector
beyond contracting for the "hotel" functions in hospitals. The notion of the public and private sectors
working together to meet the health needs of the poor was not an important consideration.




                                                       - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not Applicable.

3.3 Original Components:
The project financed civil works, goods and equipment, consultants and services, and operations and
maintenance costs, through the following three components:

Component I: Management Development and Institutional Strengthening (US$12.4 million; 9% of total
cost): (a) improving the institutional framework for policy development; (b) strengthening the management
and implementation capacity at the state, divisional, district and facility levels; and (c) developing
surveillance capacity for major communicable diseases and strengthening health management information
systems (HMIS).

Component II: Improving Service Quality and Effectiveness at 25 District Hospitals (DH), 23 100-bedded
and 53 50-bedded Sub-Divisional Hospitals (SDH) (US$99.8 million; 74% of total cost): (a)
renovating/extending DH and upgrading selected Community Health Centers (CHCs) to SDH and
constructing training centers at 4 remaining DH; and (b) upgrading effectiveness of clinical, managerial
and support services at all DH and SDH.

Component III: Improving Access and Innovative Schemes (US$21.8 million; 17% of total cost): (a)
renovating/extending and upgrading clinical effectiveness at 35 CHCs and enhancing their outreach
functions; (b) improving referral mechanisms between primary and tertiary levels and with private health
care; (c) promoting health services in tribal areas and for disadvantaged groups; and (d) developing a
super-specialty hospital as an innovative scheme for closer cooperation between the public and private
sectors through the adoption of modern management practices.

Key policy reforms were agreed with GOM, as outlined in a formal Letter of Health Sector Development
Policy furnished to the Bank at Negotiations; it included: (i) increasing financing and improving resource
allocation for the health sector, including increased allocations to the health sector, increased allocations to
the primary and secondary levels of care, provision of adequate resources for drugs and essential supplies,
and raising supplementary funds through selective application of user charges; (ii) strengthening capacity
for management, planning and coordination; (iii) enhancing the role of the private and voluntary sector; (iv)
providing incentives for the workforce and resolving the skill-mix imbalance; and (v) redressing regional
and other imbalances..

3.4 Revised Components:
Component III (d) was to develop the Gokuldas Tejpal (GT) Hospital building, an incomplete structure in
Mumbai City, as a super-specialty hospital in a joint venture between the government and a private partner.
Despite some early progress, including completion of the necessary studies and policy decisions,
implementation of this activity was delayed. At the mid-term review (MTR), a decision was taken to drop
this activity and cancel the unused allocated funds.
3.4.1 Assessment: A large proportion of the project investment was directed at enhancing physical
infrastructure at public secondary level facilities. The proportion allocated to achieving the first DO,
improved efficiency in resource allocation and utilization within the health sector, was small; and not
backed by well-defined activities for institutional and sectoral reform (including the private sector).
Interventions aimed at addressing health needs of the poor, as presented in Component III, were also largely
focused on upgrading infrastructure at public facilities located in tribal areas. However, although
absorbing only a small proportion of project funds, activities to improve access to services and health
outcomes for the poor were included in the design.



                                                      - 3 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated Satisfactorythough, because of weaknesses in the monitoring framework,
especially in the outcome indicators, this would be rated Moderately Satisfactory under a six point
assessment rating. GOM finalized a Project Implementation Plan (PIP) covering the following issues:

Policy Reform: The overall financial status of the state was identified as a critical risk, with implications
for overall allocations to the health sector. To address this risk, GOM undertook to implement policy
reform in health sector financing and management. An analysis of state-level public expenditures and of
health expenditure was undertaken for this purpose.

Institutional Strengthening: Critical institutional risks identified during preparation included inadequate
flow of funds; procurement delays; and delays in recruitment of key staff, particularly for the Project
Management Cell (PMC). Institutional arrangements were agreed with GOM to mitigate these risks:

·   GOM provided assurances in the Development Credit Agreement to (i) constitute an empowered
    Steering Committee (SC) to facilitate routine implementation, including availability of funds; (ii) set up
    a smooth funds flow mechanism, and a computer-based financial management system (FMS) to enable
    the PMC to monitor sources and uses of funds;
·   The procurement plan and schedule for civil works, goods and services for the first two years was
    prepared and cleared with the Bank; as well as bidding documents for prior review packages for the
    first year; and
·   Government Resolutions (GRs) establishing the PMC, Strategic Planning Cell (SPC), Project
    Governing Board (PGB), SC and District Management Committees (DMCs) were issued prior to
    Negotiations. The Health Secretary was designated as the Project Manager (PM); and heads of the
    Health Systems, Communicable Diseases, and Finance and Accounts cells were also designated.

Technical Issues: A Social Assessment was completed, and its findings were used to develop the Tribal
Strategy. A Disease Burden study was completed and based on its findings, GOM was able to define
service norms, including equipment and staffing norms, for different levels of hospitals as well as training
modules for different types of staff.. Based on the staffing norms, GOM developed a Manpower Plan,
identifying the additional staff required under different categories. Site and equipment surveys were
substantially completed for the civil works program; equipment lists and technical specifications were
finalized as also an essential drugs list for all facilities. An Environmental Action Plan was prepared and
cleared with the Bank; and a plan for the surveillance of major communicable diseases was developed.

The monitoring framework (see Annex 1) for the project, however, could have been designed to measure
outcomes better. For example, measures for several indicators were phrased in an imprecise manner
("increased share", "adequate expenditure"), and did not specify that figures reported should be (i) net of
project inputs, and (ii) in real terms. This was also true of indicators to measure improved quality and
effectiveness: the indicator on admissions due to high-risk pregnancies was inappropriate for a large
proportion of project hospitals since these hospitals did not have the support services to conduct high-risk
deliveries. Finally, measuring increased access for tribals was not possible since data on tribal status was
not recorded; and no survey was planned to collect tribal utilization data.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of Development Objectives is rated Satisfactory. However, this achievement needs to be



                                                         - 4 -

qualified; while the project succeeded in bringing about sustainable improvements in service delivery, it did
not do well in systems development. Under a six point assessment rating, the achievement of DOs would
be rated Moderately Satisfactory. The overall rating is based on progress on starred (*) key performance
indicators (KPI) in Annex 1 of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) (for additional analysis, see Annex
9).

DO 1: Improve efficiency in the allocation and use of health resources through policy and institutional
development through:

(i) Increased share of resources for the primary and secondary levels of health care in the total
resources (plan and non-plan) allocated to the health sector: Achievement is unsatisfactory. The share
of primary and secondary care in health resources varied during the project. Allocations to the health sector
(Plan and Non-Plan) increased from Rs. 12,966.1 million in 1999-00 to Rs. 20,138.7 million in 2005-06:
this represents a 53% increase in real terms (table in Annex 1 presents figures in both nominal and real
terms). Of this, the share of primary and secondary care rose marginally from 79.8% in 1999-00 to 81.3%
in 2001-02; it then declined to 72.7% in 2005-06. However, if the share of primary and secondary levels of
care is calculated net of MHSDP contribution in real terms, the picture is different. Funding provided
through MHSDP contributed about 10% of primary and secondary resources on average, rising to a high of
about 14% in 2003-04. If such funding were to be excluded from the total Health Budget and from the
allocation to primary and secondary levels, the allocation to primary and secondary levels rose from about
79% in 1999-00 to 86.9%, 88.5%, 86.9% and 84.2% in the subsequent four years. It declined a little
further to 80.3% in 2004-05 and was at 76.9% at the project end. This seems to indicate that MHSDP
funds were additional, although there may have been some substitution for government funding towards the
end. It also indicates that at the end of the project in 2004-05, the share of resources for the primary and
secondary levels of care was less than in the beginning in 1999-00.

(ii) Maintaining adequate expenditures for drugs at least at the current estimated level of Rs. 8,800 per
bed per year for drug: Achievement is unsatisfactory even though the drug budget appears to be in
line with the KPI. The drug budget appears to be in line with the KPI. Drug expenditure per bed per year
increased from Rs. 8,800 in 1999-00 to Rs. 9,445 in 2004-05, which represents a marginal decline of about
2% in real terms. This also covers the 3,175 new beds added under the project. MHSDP's contribution to
the drug budget at project hospitals increased gradually until in 2003-04, Rs. 8,810 per bed per year out of
Rs. 9,300 was contributed by the project. This later tapered off, and in 2005-06, the project contributed
about 8% of the total budget. This indicates that MHSDP funds substituted for state funds in the provision
of drugs; however, the KPI specified only total expenditures on drugs, but not the source of funding.
Increased availability of medicines is reflected in reduced out-of-pocket expenses for the purchase of
medicines at project hospitals: Patient Satisfaction Surveys have found that average patient expenditure on
medicine per illness episode reduced from Rs. 79.0 to Rs. 53.0 between 2003 and 2005. These surveys
were conducted by the Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics, Pune in 2003 and 2005.

Overall availability of funds for non-salary expenditures appears to have increased between 1999-00 and
2005-06. Due to compliance with the recommendations of the 5th Pay Commission in 1997, salaries as a
proportion of the total budget had increased to 65.7% in 1999-00. Subsequently, with an increase in total
allocations to the health sector, and no further increase in salaries, this proportion began to decline and
amounted to 45.4% in 2005-06. The budget for contingencies, including maintenance of buildings and
equipment and operation cost of vehicles (including ambulances), rose from 11.6% of the health budget in
1999 to a high of 15.8% in 2002; then it declined to 11.7% in 2006. In nominal terms, there was a 57%
increase in the budget for contingencies over the project period.



                                                       - 5 -

(iii) Implementation of a user charge policy in all project facilities: Achievement is satisfactory.
Implementation of the user charge policy is in compliance with the project covenant. Retention of funds
collected through user charges at the point of collection was instituted in September 1999, and rates for
different procedures were revised in July 2001. Currently, all project and non-project secondary hospitals
are collecting user charges. Collections increased dramatically from Rs. 14.9 million in 1999-00 to Rs.
281.9 million in 2004-05. DHs continue to collect the bulk of user fees; however, the share of Other
Hospitals (OH), SDHs and CHCs has increased from 19% of the total in 1999-00 to 31% in 2004-05.
This could imply that the spread of patients across different levels of hospitals has improved, increasing the
appropriate utilization of lower level hospitals and reducing the pressure on DHs, an important project
objective. Patients below the poverty line, the elderly and disabled have been exempted from user charges.
Special counters have been set up at the Registration area of the hospitals for patients in these categories.

Data indicates that the user charges revenue has clearly increased non-salary recurrent expenditures
(External Evaluation of hospital data; Tata Institute of Social Sciences; 2005). For example, prior to
2001, average monthly collections and expenditures at DHs amounted to about Rs. 1.12 million and Rs.
0.4 million respectively; with the rate increase in 2001, collections and expenditures rose to Rs. 3.19
million and Rs. 0.8 million respectively. The increased expenditures were applied towards maintenance
and repair of buildings and equipment and transportation of poor patients.

The levying of user charges does not appear to have had a negative impact on use of services. The monthly
use by paying patients increased from 0.17 million to 0.21 million (22.5% increase) after the rate increase
in 2001; and monthly use by exempted patients increased from 33,377 to 47,570 (42.5% increase). In the
case of tribals, the increase among paying patients was much greater (73.6%) than among exempted
patients (11.8%). This could partly be due to poor health seeking behavior among the poorer and more
marginalized tribal groups who would be eligible for exemption from user charges. The proportion of
exempted patients availing of services increased at all types of facilities except SDH-100, and overall there
was a small increase in use by exempted patients from 16% to 18%.

Overall, despite some positive results, the achievement of this DO is unsatisfactory as, by the end of the
project, (i) the share of resources for the primary and secondary levels of health care in the total budget did
not increase; and (ii) there was an actual decline, in real terms, in expenditure on drugs.

DO 2: Improve the performance of the health care system at the first referral level and selectively at
the community level through:

(i) Increase in percentage of institutions staffed in accordance with agreed norms from 25 % at
baseline; to 35 % at midterm; and 90% at end of project: Progress has been satisfactory. Service norms
had been agreed for different levels of hospitals; and the skills required to deliver the specified services had
been determined. Five essential skills were identified and these specialists had to be made available:
surgeon, general physician, obstetrician/gynecologist, pediatrician and anesthetist. In addition, if over 75%
of the required skills were provided at a facility, it was deemed that norms had been met. The PMC
monitored the status of skill mix regularly; an inventory of available staff and vacancies was undertaken
prior to the MTR to determine additional requirement to comply with the agreed skill mix. A GR
establishing service norms was issued in December 2002 and monitoring and recruitment was decentralized
to Regional Deputy Directors, who were authorized to contract doctors for one year to fill vacancies. In
addition, in-service training in critical skills such as anesthesia and pediatrics was undertaken in
collaboration with the Department of Medical Education. Several additional strategies were also adopted



                                                        - 6 -

to ensure appropriate skill mix at project facilities, including: (i) counseling of new recruits; (ii)
decentralized recruitment by DMCs; (iii) making specialists from the DH available on a fixed day to SDHs
within their district; and(iv) providing honoraria for hiring private doctors, particularly dentists and
psychiatrists. As a result, 42% of facilities were staffed according to norms at the MTR, and 85% at the
project end against a target of 90%. There appears to be an overall equitable distribution of institutions
staffed according to norms among tribal and non-tribal populations, with staffing in tribal areas being
marginally lower. However, maintaining the skill mix after project closing will continue to be a challenge
and will require close monitoring.

(ii) Increase in number of admissions to institutions under the project due to high-risk pregnancies by
5% points at midterm and 15% points at end of project: Achievement of this KPI is mixed. The project
end target of 15% of all admissions due to pregnancy related complications has been achieved only at DH
and OH; other categories of hospitals have lagged behind for several reasons: (i) the service norms at
SDH-50 and CHC did not provide for delivery of high-risk pregnancies, and necessary facilities such as
blood banks were not available. Setting a target for these hospitals was therefore inappropriate; (ii) many
of the cases from the SDH and CHC level were referred to higher-level facilities. Routine monitoring data
indicates that about 20% of all cases referred to the DH were obstetric/gynecological cases. Part of the
reason for this was the delay in re-commissioning facilities and in positioning the appropriate specialists, as
a result of which the credibility of the lower level facilities was compromised, and referral to the district
level continued to be high.

Admissions due to pregnancy related complications increased substantially in aggregate, from 20,287
across all hospitals in 1999 to 33,981 in 2004 (a 70% increase); and all categories of hospital have
reported large increases over the baseline.

In 2004, 33,981 of 118,066 deliveries at project hospitals were of high-risk pregnancies ­ about 30%. It is
estimated that about 15% of all pregnancies are high risk; hence, a disproportionate number of women with
high-risk pregnancies appear to be delivering at project hospitals. Overall, about 300,000 high-risk
pregnancies could be expected in Maharashtra in 2004. Of these, about 10% were admitted at project
hospitals (33,981). In addition, the increase over the project period in the number of high-risk pregnancies
admitted to project hospitals has been much greater than that in total deliveries: 296% versus 138%.

(iii) Increase in total outpatient department (OPD) attendance and increase in the proportion in the
total outpatient attendance of women and Scheduled Tribes (ST) from 30% and 10% at baseline, to
35% and 12 % at midterm and 50% and 15% at end of project: Progress on this KPI is satisfactory.
Total OPD attendance increased substantially despite disruption of services at all hospitals for various
periods due to on-going construction and renovation. Total attendance increased from 5.13 million in 1999
to 8.43 million in 2005 ­ a 64% increase. This means an increase in project hospitals from 5.2 OPD visits
per 100 persons in 1999 to about 8 OPD visits per 100 persons in 2005; available data indicates that in the
US, 30.4 OPD visits occurred per 100 persons in 2000, but this included all facilities conducting OPD (Ly
N, McCaig LF. National Hospital Ambulatory Medical Care Survey: 2000 Outpatient Department
Summary. Adv Data.2002, June 4).

Women already constituted about 50% of all outpatients at the baseline, which was the goal for the end of
the project. This has declined marginally to about 49%, except at OH, where women constituted 58% of
the OPD. Tribals constitute about 9% of the total population of the state. According to hospital activity
information, OPD attendance of tribals has risen from 1.7% at baseline to 4.9% by December 2003, but
these figures should be interpreted with caution due to difficulty in elicitation of caste, misclassification of
tribes and upward social mobility resulting in change of status. Since tribal populations are clustered in 5


                                                        - 7 -

districts of Thane, Nashik, Nandurbar, Amravati and Gadchiroli, an analysis was attempted of OPD
attendance in project hospitals located in the tribal areas. The data indicates that, overall, there has been a
24% increase in OPD attendance at these facilities, with greater increases registered at SDH and CHC, due
to their location closer to tribal habitations. This increased OPD includes utilization by non-tribals living in
the area as well, and is a positive outcome, since these areas are geographically difficult and remote,
inhibiting health-seeking behavior. Of the increased OPD, about 18% is of tribal populations, which is
greater than the end of project goal of 15%. While utilization of services by women/ST has been used as a
proxy for utilization of services by the poor, it is unfortunate that neither the indicator nor the monitoring
mechanism attempted to directly measure utilization by the poor. A special community-based survey could
have been planned for this purpose.

The achievement of this DO is satisfactory as (i) the percentage of institutions staffed as per the agreed
norms increased from 25% to 90%; (ii) the number of admissions to institutions due to high risk
pregnancies increased by 15 percentage points; and (iii) attendance at outpatient department increased, and
the proportion of such attendance by women and scheduled tribes increased from 30% and 10% to 50%
and 15% respectively.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Overall implementation progress (IP) is rated Satisfactory. The most recent IP rating (Implementation
Status and Results; Archived January 24, 2006) upgraded the "moderately satisfactory" rating of the
previous mission, since project management was able to satisfactorily address the main issues: completion
of civil works and procurement, and installation and re-commissioning of equipment procured under the
project. Additional claims have been submitted and processed, improving the disbursement profile.

Component I: Management Development and Institutional Strengthening: Overall implementation of
this component was Satisfactory. Progress on specific sub-components is as follows:

(a) Improving the institutional framework for policy development: Effective management of resources in
the health sector was identified as a critical risk, and MHSDP was to set up a Strategic Planning Cell
(SPC) to address this risk, tasked with undertaking studies and analyses necessary to develop and assess
health policies and programs in Maharashtra. The project did not set up such a cell. Instead, the functions
of the SPC were carried out by the PMC under the direction of the PM. Institutions were contracted, both
within and outside the state, to conduct 19 studies and evaluations on various aspects of the project; the
findings were analyzed and disseminated at 115 workshops and meetings; and appropriate action was taken
based on the recommendations. However, several of these studies focused on operational issues, and did not
focus on the objective of the SPC ­ to provide strategic guidance to the future development of the health
sector in Maharashtra. For example, the studies could have been a means to better understanding and
coordinating with the private sector in areas such as regulation and accreditation, or to better targeting
services to the poor. By the end of the project, there was no particular improvement in the institutional
framework for policy development. A list of studies managed by the PMC is in Annex 7.

(b) Strengthening the management and implementation capacity at the state, divisional, district and
facility levels: Several of the interventions were intended specifically to improve project implementation. At
the state level, a PGB and SC were set up to provide autonomy in decision-making as well as for better
flow of funds for project activities. The PMC was set up with the intention that it would implement all
aspects of the project, in close consultation with the Directorate of Health Services (DHS). At the MTR,
many of the functions of the PMC were transferred to the DHS to strengthen this collaboration; and the
DHS took over management of several project components. Drug purchase was centralized, and a system
of indenting for required drugs at the facility level was instituted; this streamlined the procurement of drugs



                                                       - 8 -

and consumables, and made the system more transparent. At the regional level, Engineering Wings were
set up to facilitate the implementation of civil works; and Health Equipment Maintenance and Repair
(HEMR) workshops were set up to assist with the timely installation and commissioning of equipment
provided under the project. At the district level, District Management Committees (DMC) were formed
under the chairmanship of the District Collector, and were given primary responsibility for tracking and
filling vacancies of key staff, and addressing issues of skill mix. At each facility, a Hospital Visiting
Committee (HVC) was formed to monitor quality of care and provider behavior. The computerized
financial management system (FMS) has been made operational, and the Bank has recommended that it
could be utilized in other government departments as well. Several of these initiatives will be maintained
after project closing, including the HEMR workshops, the DMCs and HVCs.

(c) Developing surveillance capacity for major communicable diseases and strengthening HMIS: With
the delay in preparation of the IDA-funded Integrated Disease Surveillance Program (IDSP), the disease
surveillance component of the project was substantially expanded following the MTR. Standard reporting
formats were developed, and the DHS is regularly receiving information based on these formats from all
districts. Feedback arrangements and training modules were developed, and are compatible with the
National Surveillance Program for Communicable Diseases. The project developed a Geographic
Information System to map important health and demographic data, as well as disease patterns. District
Disease Surveillance Teams and Rapid Response Units were established and trained. With the
implementation of IDSP, continued support for the disease surveillance program is assured. In addition, the
project provided support to the State Bureau of Health Intelligence and Vital Statistics to improve the
quality of the Medical Certification of Cause of Death (MCCD) and Survey of Cause of Death (SCD).
Training modules were prepared for both, and training of relevant personnel is almost complete.

Progress with the HMIS was exemplary. All 143 project facilities were using the HMIS by the MTR. A
total of 174 data elements are being monitored at DHs, and 61 data elements at all other hospitals. Several
rounds of external validation were conducted of the data, and statistical officers of MHSDP were trained in
validation techniques. The data is analyzed by the PMC and feedback provided regularly to all hospitals.
The data is used for: (i) grading of hospitals, and recognition of consistently high performers; (ii)
performance-linked budgeting; (iii) identifying the top five issues for immediate action at each hospital; and
(iv) identifying issues for further research and study. For example, the data showed that the earmarked
Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT) department beds were largely under-utilized; they were reallocated as
ophthalmic beds, for which there was a greater demand due to the National Cataract Blindness Control
Program. A web-based system has now been implemented, and the updating and maintenance of the HMIS
has been transferred to the DHS. Non-project hospitals have also been included in the HMIS.

Component II: Improving Service Quality and Effectiveness at District and Sub-Divisional Hospitals:
Progress on this component was Satisfactory. The rating is based on the following achievements:

(a) Renovating/extending DHs and upgrading selected CHCs to sub-divisional hospitals and
constructing training centers at 4 remaining DHs: An ambitious civil works program was undertaken by
the project; and the project has renovated/upgraded a large number of facilities including all 21 DH, 7 OH,
24 SDH ­ 100 bedded, and 52 SDHs ­ 50 bedded. In addition, the project has constructed an office
complex in Mumbai ­ the Arogya Bhavan, an Information, Education and Communication (IEC) Bureau in
Pune, 6 HEMR workshops, 1 state level and 16 district level Public Health Laboratories, 4 Blood Bank
buildings, 12 Hospital Training Centers, 366 deep burial pits at project and non-project facilities, 33
dharmashalas (guest houses), and 30 Trauma Care centers. A total of 3,175 new beds were created.
Detailed preparatory activities were undertaken, such as facility surveys to determine the status of existing
buildings; assessment of availability of additional space for expansion based on space norms for different


                                                      - 9 -

hospitals; selection of appropriate alternative sites, if the old site was insufficient; preparing architectural
designs, to be cleared by the Bank architect; and obtaining requisite clearances. Partly due to this,
substantial delay was experienced in getting the civil works grounded; this resulted in large lags in
disbursement, and only 30% of the works were completed by the MTR. Such delays had an impact on
many other components: for example, procurement of equipment was delayed since it was dovetailed with
completion of civil works. This resulted in delays in re-commissioning the facilities, and disruption in
services. Subsequently, with stringent monitoring from both the PMC and the Bank, all works, including
the Arogya Bhavan, were completed.

(b) Upgrading effectiveness of clinical, managerial and support services at all district and
sub-divisional hospitals: Service norms were determined in consultation with appropriate stakeholders for
each level of facility during project preparation; and equipment norms, skill mix and staffing norms, and
training needs were finalized based on this. An equipment survey was undertaken to ascertain the facility
specific equipment requirement. A one-time repair program for existing equipment was undertaken,
whereby 1,800 pieces of equipment worth Rs. 160 million were repaired and re-commissioned for a cost of
Rs. 14.8 million. The project procured new equipment of the value of Rs. 1,399.4 million, including
furniture, major and minor medical equipment, surgical equipment, vehicles, medicines and supplies. A
long-term strategy for repairing and maintaining existing and new equipment was implemented: (i) 8
regional HEMR workshops were established, with a full complement of bio-medical engineers, technicians
and support staff. A building was provided for these workshops, as well as tools, equipment and necessary
machinery. The PMC also prepared an "Operations Manual" with descriptions of the services to be
provided, job descriptions of staff, and reporting systems. A GR was passed in May 2004, sanctioning the
posts in the workshops, indicating the government's commitment to maintain these workshops after project
closing; and (ii) annual maintenance contracts were purchased for high value equipment, to be renewed as
required.

The project also enhanced service quality through clinical and management training of all personnel. A
Training Plan was prepared based on a training needs analysis. Training curricula and manuals for a range
of specializations were developed. A total of 10,151 personnel received management training; 8,792
received clinical training; 42,738 received subject-related training; 4,979 in Quality Assurance; and 11,425
in health care waste management. The number trained at a particular facility is a function of the size of the
hospital and associated numbers of staff; hence DHs have the largest numbers trained. A total of 63
international fellowships were also awarded. Two external evaluations were conducted of the training: one
of the management training module, and the other of the nursing training. The recommendations of the
evaluations were incorporated into subsequent training programs. Hospital Training Teams have been
established and the project has constructed several Training Centers. The DHS needs to develop an annual
training program to fully utilize the training capacity of these centers.

A comprehensive Quality Assurance (QA) program was implemented , including: (i) collection of reliable
HMIS data; (ii) annual rounds of Patient and Staff Satisfaction Surveys; (iii) development of clinical
quality indicators, protocols and monitoring formats; (iv) institution of prescription and medical audit; and
(v) hospital inspections through a panel of experts. All project hospitals were conducting medical audits by
the end of the project; and all project hospitals passed inspection by a panel of experts. These tools helped
to instill a culture of concern for quality service delivery.

Overall, the benefit of these inputs ­ improved skill mix, equipment, training and QA ­ is reflected in
improved quality and effectiveness of services (See Annex 8 for detailed analysis of quality and
effectiveness indicators). There has been a substantial increase in investigations overall: laboratory
investigations and X-rays had increased by 39% and 9% over the baseline respectively at the mid-term and


                                                       - 10 -

by 68% and 48% respectively by the end of the project ­ this far exceeds the KPI on laboratory
investigations. The number of major surgeries conducted at project facilities increased from 66,894 in
1999 to 197,081 in 2005 ­ a three-fold increase. The increase has been consistent across all levels of
hospitals; and is an indication of the increased access to such specialist services even at lower level
facilities. Bed occupancy rates have increased from an average of 51% at baseline to about 77% at the end
of project. Occupancy varies between levels of facilities due to: (i) increase in number of beds, particularly
at SDH-100 and SDH-50; and (ii) variable case mix, with lower level hospitals having a greater number of
same day or short stay patients. Average length of stay (ALOS) has declined from 12 days at baseline to
3.46 days at the end of the project ­ this compares well with experience in Israel and elsewhere, with
ALOS of about 4.5 days (Benbassat J, Haklai Z, Glick S, Friedman N. Determinants of hospital
utilization: the situation in Israel and selected countries. Isr Med Assoc J. 2000 Nov; 2(11):833-7).

However, there are variations in performance between different levels of facilities: the quarterly grading
undertaken of all project hospitals based on a core set of indicators shows that DHs are the best
performers, with over 50% in the A grade, and the rest in B grade. OH and SDH-100 follow, with about
two thirds of those facilities functioning in the A and B grades. The SDH-50 fared the worst with less than
40% of the facilities functioning at acceptable levels. The PMC has been actively monitoring these
indicators, and trying to address the issues underlying poor performance; it will now be critical for the DHS
to continue this practice to ensure good utilization of project investments. A comparison on selected
variables between project and non-project sites was attempted at project end; a baseline should have been
established for this, and a more systematic evaluation conducted to better understand the impact of project
inputs.

Finally, in compliance with the Bio-Medical Waste Handling and Management Rule (1998), the project
implemented a Health Care Waste Management Plan (HCWMP). Working in collaboration with the
Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, a plan was developed for segregation and containment of waste at
the facility level. This included construction of deep burial pits at hospitals located in townships with
population of less than 500,000, and setting up contracts with Common Treatment and Disposal Facility
(CTDF) in townships with population greater than 500,000. Supplies of waste bins, puncture proof
containers, plastic bags, pneumatic hand spray, electric needle and syringe destroyers and protective attire
for waste handlers were provided by the project. 284 project sites (72%) and 62% of all hospitals under
the DHS (project and non-project) had introduced HCWMP practices by project closing, which is above
the KPI target. Apart from this, autoclave with shredder was supplied at 17 DH and 24 SDH-100. The
implementation of the HCWMP leaves much room for improvement, and needs to be monitored closely by
the DHS since to be effective, it involves behavior change of all levels of staff.

Component III: Improving Access and Innovative Schemes: Progress on this component is Satisfactory.
The rating is based on the following:

(a) Renovating/extending and upgrading clinical effectiveness at 35 CHCs and enhancing their
outreach functions: All CHCs were completed; and software inputs were provided to enhance quality and
effectiveness of services. The performance grading indicated that about 15% of all facilities were in grade
A, and a third of them were in grade B: that is, about half of the CHCs were functioning at an acceptable
level.

(b) Improving referral mechanisms between primary and tertiary levels and with private health care:
The project was only modestly successful in implementing a referral mechanism between different levels of
hospitals, a key element of enhancing the cost-effectiveness of service delivery. The project introduced
referral protocols and feedback cards, referral guidelines, incentives for referred patients, transportation


                                                     - 11 -

when required, and training for medical officers in appropriate referral. Logistical support in the form of
referral registers, chits and reporting formats were also provided. The mechanism was first piloted in 2
districts, and based on lessons learned it was scaled up to all districts. The largest proportion of referrals
was to the DH, due to the availability of a range of specialist services. Out-patients referred in to the DH
increased from 0.5% of total out-patients in 2002-03 to about 1.2% in 2003-04 and thereafter. Referrals
were from all levels of hospitals, including Primary Health Centers, and also included sizeable numbers of
referrals from the private sector. More cases are referred out of the DH to specialty hospitals or teaching
hospitals, although this is declining. Referrals to private hospitals have declined from 18% in 2002-03 to
5% in 2003-04. About 25% of all referrals were transported in government vehicles, and about 70% of
those referred were women and children.

(c) Promoting health services in tribal areas and for disadvantaged groups: Several schemes were
piloted to test service delivery mechanisms in tribal areas; however, poorly designed monitoring strategies
did not allow any useful lessons to be drawn from them. Thus an important opportunity for better
understanding the challenges of increasing access to services in remote areas was lost. There were several
interventions. (i) Health check-ups were organized at tribal sub-centers, and about 1.5 million tribals
availed of diagnostic and curative services at these camps. Government functionaries organized 9,043
camps and non-government organizations (NGOs) 121 camps. 75% of those who attended were women and
children, and 1.8% were referred to project hospitals for further investigation. While no rigorous evaluation
was conducted of the impact of such camps on health outcomes of tribals, it is likely to have been small
since only one camp was held annually at each sub-center. (ii) An Action Research Project was initiated at
Dhadgaon in District Nandurbar to reduce neonatal mortality. However, impact evaluation was not
possible since baseline data was not comparable to end-line data. (iii) To reduce the mental distance
between health care providers and tribal populations, all health personnel in the five tribal districts were
trained in tribal culture and language. The impact of this effort was also not evaluated. (iv) Traditional
medical practitioners were provided training in primary care, since they are the first source of health care
for most tribals. Training was provided in the management of diarrhea, immunization and referral of
critical cases. No evaluation was conducted; however, experience in Orissa indicates that this could be
effective in providing basic curative care in remote areas. In addition, the project implemented the
following: (i) Due to a nutritional crisis in tribal districts, District Nandurbar was chosen as a pilot district
for the Rapid Results Initiative (RRI). Choosing reduction in childhood malnutrition as the area of focus,
block-level teams implemented an intensive strategy for 100 days. This exercise was largely successful in
achieving the limited objectives of the RRI; however, to sustain that level of activity, or to obtain the
resources necessary to scale it up to other tribal districts, is going to be difficult; and (ii) In 2002, GOM
took a policy decision to provide monetary incentives to staff in tribal areas, including higher
non-practicing allowance and pay scale. It is the perception of field staff that this has improved the
availability of doctors in tribal facilities.

Utilization of services in tribal areas improved significantly as a result of improved physical amenities, and
increased provision of equipment and trained staff: in-patient admissions increased by almost 75%, with the
greatest increases in SDH-100 and SDH-50, indicating that the project strategy of strengthening facilities
geographically closer to the communities they serve was an effective one. Major surgeries increased by
92% overall, and by 182% at SDH-100, and utilization of maternity services increased by 54%. However,
available data does not allow an assessment of whether (i) such services were utilized largely by the poor,
although tribal populations in these areas are typically poor; and (ii) there was a net increase in service
utilization by tribals, since they may have previously been availing services in the private sector.

An IEC strategy was to be implemented to increase awareness of, demand for and satisfaction with services
at project facilities and to improve provider behavior. The KPI on increased awareness was not met with


                                                       - 12 -

the end-line Patient Satisfaction Survey indicating only 25% of women and 15% of STs being aware of
services offered at DH and SDH. This is well below the target of 60% awareness at project closing. Also,
while evaluating user fees it was found that 65% of the users and 36% of the households in tribal areas
were unaware that certain services are available free of charge at government facilities (TISS, 2005). This
is largely because a broad-based public campaign was never implemented. A decision was made at the
MTR that the IEC Bureau in Pune would take primary responsibility for IEC activities under the project.
The Bureau functions as a design and production unit for IEC campaigns of all health programs in the
state. However, it was not the appropriate body for developing the project's IEC strategy. The Bank did
makde suggestions on developing a Departmental identity and enhancing signage at project facilities but
these were not taken forward. The centerpiece of the IEC component was the "Sevabhav" and "Seva
Sankalp" training aimed at improving provider behavior; this was piloted first in District Ahmednagar, and
later extended to 17 additional districts. While the initial impact has been positive, there needs to be
regular reinforcement through monitoring and re-training to ensure that the benefits are sustained.

(d) Developing a super-specialty hospital as an innovative scheme for closer cooperation between the
public and private sectors through the adoption of modern management practices: Preparatory
activities towards developing the GT Super Specialty hospital in Mumbai into a public-private partnership
were completed early in the project, albeit with some delays, leading to non-compliance with legal
covenants. The building was handed over to the Department of Medical Education in May 2000, with the
understanding that an agreement would shortly be signed with an appropriate private partner. Despite
approval of the Joint Venture Corporation set up with M/s Wockhardt Life Sciences Ltd. by GOM's
Revenue, Law and Judiciary departments in November 2001, the Bank was informed in June 2002 that
GOM was considering re-opening negotiations with the private partner. The Department of Economic
Affairs also followed up with the Bank and GOM, since they were interested in the outcome of this
innovative proposal. However, no further progress had taken place by the MTR in November 2002, and
the decision was taken by the Bank to cancel this component.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project was Substantial. There were two important
institutional development interventions. The first was the decentralized drug purchase mechanism, which
has now been institutionalized. This resulted in greater transparency in procurement and a more cost
efficient system, capable of procuring large volumes of drugs in a timely manner. The second intervention
was the HMIS which regularly provided monitoring data that was effectively used to manage hospital
performance. HMIS data was used to grade hospitals and conduct comparative analysis of performance to
identify and correct problems on time. In addition, the disease surveillance system was streamlined, and a
health care waste management system was introduced in compliance with the Supreme Court ruling on
waste management at health care facilities.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The deluge of June 2005: The project was able to obtain three additional months ­ from August 31, 2005
to November 31, 2005 ­ due to severe rainfall across the state in June/July 2005. With the fear of
epidemics looming large, all personnel were diverted to containing the situation. As a result there was



                                                     - 13 -

disruption in project activities; however, the additional three months helped to get it back on track.

Tsunami relief: While requesting the initial extension to the project closing date, DEA also requested a
re-allocation of about US$12 million towards Tsunami relief efforts. This reduced the total amount
available to the project. This did not impact project activities significantly; however, it did ensure that the
remaining amount was fully disbursed at closing.

Lack of availability of specific skills: Despite GOM's best efforts, it was not possible to fulfill the staffing
norms particularly in the case of anesthetists, gynecologists and pediatricians, due to an absolute shortage
of personnel with these skills in the state. Even the option of contracting in these services from the private
sector for a fee was not successful for this reason.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Political commitment: GOM had been very committed to the project during the preparation phase, and
compared to several other states that were simultaneously preparing State Health Systems Projects
(SHSPs), Maharashtra performed better. Despite elections being held early in the project, and subsequent
change in government, GOM was proactive in implementing several policy measures, particularly user
charges. However, there were several instances when political commitment was wanting, leading to delays
in obtaining necessary clearances and guidance, as in the case of the GT Hospital proposal or management
problems between DHS and the PMC.

Overall fiscal situation of the state: The project suffered constant under-funding due to the overall fiscal
situation in the state.2




5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Utilizing existing capacity: The DHS and PMC were able to utilize existing capacity to their advantage,
particularly in the case of the disease surveillance program. The state and district level units were
strengthened under the project, and this activity was one of the successes of the project. A similar effort
with respect to the IEC component was not so successful, however.

Implementing the civil works program: Delays in grounding and completing the civil works resulted mainly
from lack of capacity in the PMC to execute such an ambitious program. The necessary additional staff
was not recruited for more than a year after the project became effective. There were delays in choosing
sites for new construction as also in obtaining the clearances required for the Arogya Bhavan.

Procurement: Although the procurement function was taken on by an external agency, procurement was
delayed substantially. The reason given was that procurement of equipment was to be dovetailed with
completion of civil works. However, finally, procurement was so delayed that it would not have been
completed if the project had not been extended, and re-commissioning of hospitals became a problem.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The original Credit Amount was SDR97.9 (US$134 million). There were subsequently two rounds of
cancellations: (i) during the MTR, US$9.1 million for the GT Super Specialty Hospital project was
cancelled and US$8 million was cancelled from Category IV (Operations and Maintenance Costs); and (ii)
while requesting an Extension of the Closing Date, the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) also
requested a re-allocation of SDR11.938 million towards the India Tsunami Rehabilitation Project. The
funds available to the project finally amounted to SDR73.76 million (US$109.85 million equivalent).
Disbursements were consistently low throughout the project period; and stood at just 60% at the end of six
years of implementation, despite the cancellations. However, with activities coming to completion during



                                                     - 14 -

the 9-month Extension period, particularly the civil works and equipment procurement programs that
represented a large proportion of the Credit, at the project closing, the revised allocation of SDR73.76
million was fully disbursed.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is rated as Likely. The government's commitment to sustaining project benefits is
reflected in the following:

Financial sustainability. As noted earlier, allocations to the health sector have increased over the project
period (page 8). The share of salaries in the budget dropped from about 60% in the 1990s and has
remained constant at about 45% during the project period, implying that allocations to drugs, operations
and maintenance have been protected. Revenue collected from user fees has increased, thereby increasing
availability of funds for non-salary recurrent costs at the facility level. It was estimated by the Bank team
that about Rs. 350 million would be required to continue project activities, including the services of
additional staff for posts created under the project, maintenance of facilities and equipment, HMIS and
health care waste management system. GOM has approved the request for additional funding. The public
expenditure review undertaken during project preparation concluded that project related incremental
expenditure would not constitute a significant burden to the state's health budget, based on past rates of
growth (Project Appraisal Document, Annex 5). Given the trends in health financing in Maharashtra, it
appears that financial sustainability would not be a problem.

Institutional sustainability. More than 75% of project costs went towards upgrading physical
infrastructure such as buildings and equipment, which will be long-term assets to the health sector. The
rationalization of service delivery through the creation of a standardized and multi-tiered secondary level of
care, with associated service norms, will be maintained. Several decisions have been taken to ensure
continuity of policy reforms undertaken under the project: (i) the largest increase has been in allocations to
grants-in-aid (GIA), from 0.95% of the health budget in FY00 to 23.9% in FY06; since GIA is applied
towards contracting private providers for the delivery of selected services, this reflects the government's
increasing commitment to partnering with the private sector, including NGOs; (ii) the centralized drug
purchase system established by the project will be maintained; (iii) contracting out of non-clinical services,
including cleaning, laundry, diet and out-patient registration has been established; and (iv) availability of
specialist services is being addressed. The DHS had already taken over the implementation and
management of most software activities soon after the MTR.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The re-distribution of responsibilities between the PMC and the DHS following the MTR resulted in many
software components being transferred to the Bureau Chiefs at the DHS. These included the referral
system, health care waste management, training, disease surveillance, and the tribal strategy. The DHS
also took over management of the cadre to ensure the maintenance of the required skill mix at project
hospitals and collection and management of user charges. A separate IEC Bureau was given the
responsibility for implementing the IEC component. This meant that the DHS took ownership of these
components quite early in the project, and familiarized its personnel with them.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's lending performance is rated Satisfactory though, under a six point assessment rating, it would



                                                      - 15 -

be rated Moderately Satisfactory. It was the Bank's view at the time that maintaining a steady pipeline of
SHSPs was central to its Lending Program in India. A review was undertaken of states preparing such
projects, which concluded that the Maharashtra Project was one of those most likely to be taken to the
Board by January/February 1998; in fact, MHSDP was taken to the Board in December 1998. The Bank
team facilitated project preparation with technical and financial assistance: since states reported lack of
resources to meet the expenses involved in project preparation, funds were made available from the
IDA-funded National AIDS Control Project for undertaking studies and surveys. The objectives of
MHSDP were similar to other SHSPs; since about 9% of the state's population is tribal, an additional
objective to address their specific health needs was included.

Clear guidelines were provided to GOM on various preparatory activities that needed to be completed in
order to finalize the PIP, and missions included technical specialists to provide necessary assistance on
economic, financial and technical aspects of the project. An economic analysis was completed, based on
which the recurrent costs of the project and its implications for sustainability were estimated. Based on
experience from previous SHSPs, the service mix to be provided at secondary level facilities was
developed, as well as an essential drug list. The site surveys undertaken to estimate civil works costs were
reviewed, and inputs provided to improve their accuracy. Assistance was provided in developing both the
Tribal Strategy and the Environmental Action Plan; these were then reviewed and cleared in a timely
manner. Critical risks to implementation were identified, and mitigating measures were included either in
project design or in the policy reform package. Lessons learned from other SHSPs were incorporated, such
as empowering project management in day-to-day implementation, putting in place a strong HMIS and
implementing measures to ensure availability of funds for non-salary recurrent costs.

Project management arrangements were agreed prior to Negotiations; as also arrangement for financial
management and audit. The appointment of key staff and establishment of an adequate funds flow
mechanism were Conditions of Negotiations. A detailed set of performance indicators was prepared and
agreed with GOM; and baseline data on these indicators was provided during Negotiations. However, Bank
team paid insufficient attention to monitoring indicators as some of these were imprecise and/or
inappropriate (Section 3.5 above).

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance is rated Unsatisfactory; again under a six point assessment rating, it
would be rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. Supervision missions were held, mostly regularly and with a
good mix of expertise, and follow up was undertaken of the policy matrix, DOs and implementation. The
Bank team also facilitated bi-annual SHSP workshops, where various states shared their experiences in
implementation, problem solving and innovation. Technical assistance was provided as necessary, with
appropriate experts making independent trips to Maharashtra to solve specific problems. The MTR was
used as an opportunity to re-program the project and the Bank took the necessary steps to cancel
components that were clearly not progressing according to the agreed schedule. The team regularly
updated the KPI matrix in an exemplary manner, re-validating the information through consultation with
the project team. Project Status Reports (PSRs) were filed regularly. Manager's comments in the PSRs
were thoughtful, and provided the Task Team Leader with timely input on follow-up action.

However, despite consistently poor implementation performance, the project was rated as "Satisfactory"
until July 2004 (well after the MTR) when implementation progress was rated Unsatisfactory but was
upgraded to Moderately Satisfactory during the very next four-day mission in June 2005. Since ratings are
an important management tool available to the Bank, it appears that an opportunity was lost to
communicate strongly to GOM that project implementation needed attention. One of the main reasons for
this ­ frequent turnover of PMs ­ was not adequately highlighted, and therefore has never been recognized



                                                     - 16 -

as a problem by GOM. The MTR was delayed by about six months; this caused delays in the canceling of
components that were clearly stalled, such as the GT Hospital proposal. Again the team needed to pay
greater attention to monitoring; if particular indicators were not precise enough for proper measurement of
outcomes, these should have been modified or other ways found to measure results or lack thereof. The
MTR could have taken on board some of the recommendations of the QER, such as measuring project
impacts on the poor, particularly tribals. In response to the malnutrition crisis in tribal areas, the project
team did respond with the RRI, but again without an arrangement, such as a periodic health survey, to
track health outcomes in key areas. Finally, in the period following the MTR, when it was clear that the
project was facing difficulties, only one mission visited Maharashtra in each of 2003 and 2004. However,
the arrangement of having a back-up Task Team Leader based in Delhi to provide on-going supervision
support partially offset this lapse..

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Given the satisfactory achievement of project DOs and Bank performance in lending and in supervision,
overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory; under a six point assessment rating, it would be rated
Moderately Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's project preparation is rated Satisfactory. A PIP was completed and furnished to the Bank
during the Appraisal Mission. GOM demonstrated its commitment to the objectives of the project with the
Letter of Health Sector Development Policy, which called for improved resource allocation to the health
sector and new initiatives such as public-private partnerships in health care delivery and implementation of
a user charge policy. A dedicated project preparation team was put together. Activities necessary to fulfill
the Bank's requirements were completed timely, such as the Tribal Strategy and Environmental Action
Plan. Stakeholders were consulted in preparing these and in finalizing technical aspects of the project.
Project management arrangements were cleared by GOM for early implementation during the project.
There was some delay in processing the project due to GOI's reservations on supporting Maharashtra for
an SHSP because it was relatively a better off state, which also impacted project preparation briefly.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated Unsatisfactory. The project was characterized by
implementation delays and at the MTR, only 16% of the Credit had been disbursed. These delays resulted
from several factors: (i) project management was not sufficiently empowered early in the project; this
seriously delayed key decisions; (ii) soon after Effectiveness, there was a hiatus in all procurement
activities due to the "model code of conduct" imposed due to national and state elections; (iii) the civil
works program was delayed partly due to the PMC's unfamiliarity with Bank procedures and partly due to
the nature of the civil works program, which involved more renovation than new construction: this not only
delayed disbursements, but also delayed associated procurement of goods and equipment; (iv) cumbersome
clearance procedures led to delays in flow of funds for key activities; and (v) lack of cooperation, at least
for the first two years, between the DHS and the PMC constrained implementation; the authority to make
changes lay with the DHS and the responsibility for project implementation with the PMC. Delay in
completing activities associated with the GT Super Specialty Hospital led to legal covenants being in
non-compliance for months; finally, it led to cancellation of the sub-component. Similar delays in
implementation caused the cancellation of a further US$8 million equivalent from Category IV (Operations
and Maintenance). Frequent turnover of key staff was a major impediment: the project had seven Project
Commissioners, several of them for just a few months. Adequate supervision and support from GOM
could have addressed most of these issues.




                                                      - 17 -

GOM did take steps to address some of the observations of the MTR mission. Since the allocation of
functional responsibilities between the PMC and the DHS had become confusing, GOM passed a GR
revamping the management structure and clearly allocating responsibility for specific project activities to
the PMC and DHS. Bottlenecks in the civil works program were cleared up and the procurement of goods
and equipment was accelerated. Overall, this support came late.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementing agency performance is rated Satisfactory; again under a six point assessment rating, it would
be rated Moderately Satisfactory. Despite delays due to factors beyond their control, the PMC was able to
substantially complete all activities under the project. The civil works program, including the Arogya
Bhavan office complex in Mumbai, was completed; and a large volume of procurement of goods,
equipment, medicines and medical consumables, works and services was undertaken and completed by
project closing. The MHSDP team managed the HMIS in an exemplary manner and used it effectively as a
management tool. The PMC initiated quality improvement measures such as the MCCD and the SCD in
project facilities. The scope of the Tribal Strategy was expanded to respond to the nutritional crisis in
consultation with the Departments of Tribal Welfare and Women and Child Development. The MTR was
used effectively to re-program some areas such as training, disease surveillance, and the Tribal Strategy.
The PMC managed a number of independent studies, and excellent status reports were prepared for all
missions, including a Project Closing Status Report, providing an overview of all project achievements.
Finally, a comprehensive Borrower's Implementation Completion Report was provided timely.

A key issue was coordination with the DHS. Some of the key officers in the PMC were shared with the
DHS, and not able to devote their time exclusively to project activities. This partly contributed to delays in
re-commissioning the facilities, installation of equipment and provision of appropriate staff.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated Satisfactory. SHSPs are complex operations, involving a range of
hardware and software components. They involve a complete revamping of "business as usual" in the
health sector at the state level. Despite this, all activities were largely completed; some activities,
particularly software activities, were done relatively well; and several innovative approaches were
introduced under the project.

8. Lessons Learned

Institutional

·     External funding is inevitably used as a substitute for government funding, despite assurances
      provided to the contrary. Given this, project funding needs to be a share of the incremental cost over
      baseline cost, and this should be stringently monitored. This also holds good for sector-wide
      approaches.

·     Project management arrangements need to coordinate with DHS operations as early as possible. In
      the case of MHSDP, it is likely that an even earlier transfer of functional areas to the DHS could
      have resulted in fewer delays in implementation. Key areas such as civil works and procurement
      could be left to a dedicated PMC. The advantage is that project-related areas requiring quick
      decision-making are then entrusted to an empowered body while long-term activities are developed
      with/by the personnel who will be the end-users and will thus have increased ownership.

·     User fees do contribute vital resources towards non-salary recurrent costs that can make a substantial



                                                        - 18 -

    difference to the quality of care at hospitals. Hospitals need to be given clear guidelines on who is
    exempt from such charges, and the purposes for which such funds can be used.

Technical and Social

·   Rationalizing service delivery through uniformity in the size and service mix at each type of hospital
    can be done, and it contributes to better management of the health system. For example, training
    programs can then be standardized, QA programs can be established, and a uniform reporting system
    can be put in place ­ all measures that would increase the clinical effectiveness of the hospital.

·   The implications of the rationalization of services need to be fully understood prior introducing such
    rationalization. Policy makers need to think about the increased requirements of specialists, medical
    and para-medical staff that will emerge, and realistically assess whether this increased requirement
    can be sourced. If such skills are not likely to be available, then it may be wiser to re-think the
    service mix and pare it down to what is feasible.

·   Establishing a strong monitoring mechanism is critical for good management. The system needs to
    be simple and user friendly, focusing on a few meaningful indicators. Ensuring that baseline data is
    made available prior to Project Effectiveness and following up systematically on the agreed
    indicators will provide a basis for measuring results and help in learning lessons. Also a feedback
    mechanism is necessary whereby all functionaries get regular comparative evaluations of their
    performance.

·   Implementing a HCWMP is a requirement of GOI. Constant re-training and re-sensitization are
    required since it involves basic behavior change on the part of all hospital staff. A long-term strategy
    for such re-training needs to be part of the HCWMP.

Operational

·   Phasing in of civil works needs to be built into project design, and delays in implementing any phase
    should be dealt with decisively through cancellation of works. If not, the construction program drags
    on and the hospitals are barely commissioned at project closing. Thus many of the hospitals have to
    forego the opportunity of benefiting from software inputs and quality improvement measures. As a
    result, predicted project outcomes are not fully realized.

·   Synchronizing civil works and equipment procurement, particularly large equipment, is necessary,
    since often the physical premises for the location of the equipment need to be created. Having a
    dedicated team to manage this would facilitate the process. However, software activities such as IEC
    and QA should be initiated even when hospitals are not quite complete; else there is a risk that these
    will not take off at all due to delays in putting the hardware in place.

·   The project should allow for the piloting of innovative schemes, particularly to enhance service
    delivery. Care should be taken to develop a robust data collection plan so that useful lessons can be
    drawn from the pilot; otherwise it will be a lost opportunity. In addition, the pilot should be initiated
    and completed early enough in the project cycle to allow for scaling up within the project period.
    The project should provide the initial resources required for the scale-up, which can then be sustained
    from government resources after project closing.




                                                    - 19 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Government of Maharashtra's Evaluation

The draft ICR was shared with GOM and its comments received and incorporated. GOM's
implementation completion report is in Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




10. Additional Information

A. The Bank's ICR Team consisted of the following members:

Jaghoman S. Kang                         Task Team Leader
Laura M. Kiang                           Operations Officer
Shreelata Rao Seshadri                   Consultant
Nina Anand                               Program Assistant
Elfreda Vincent                          Program Assistant

Peer reviewers:
David Peters
Paolo Belli




                                                 - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Project Development          Key             Sources of Data     Baseline Level        Mid Term           End-Project                      Achievement
     Objectives           Indicators
DO 1: Improve          Increased share of Budget Documents
efficiency in the      resources for the
allocation and use     primary and                                           Total   Total      Total     Total     MHSDP MHSDP Pr.+Sec. MHSDP            T.    Pr+Sec
of health              secondary levels                                                                                                                Health as % of
resources through      of health care in                                    Health Health Pr.+Sec. Pr.+Sec.                          as % of as % of without T. Health
                       the total resources                                                                                              T.    Pr.+Sec. MHSD without
                       (plan and                                                                                                     Health               P
                       non-plan)                                           Nominal   Real     Nominal     Real      Nominal  Real     Real     Real    Real     MHSDP
                       allocated to the
                       health sector,                           1999-00      12966.1             10342.5               670.0
                       until year 2004                          2000-01      14805.5 14762.7     11767.9 11806.7      1176.0  1179.9   80.0    10.0     13582.8     86.9
                                                                2001-02      15947.9 15905.1     13023.5 12938.4      1293.0  1284.5   81.3     9.9     14620.6     88.5
                                                                2002-03      17182.4 16543.2     14132.9 13384.4      1210.0  1145.9   80.9     8.6     15397.3     86.9
                                                                2003-04      18575.2 18321.1     14858.7 13815.6      2047.0  1903.3   75.4    13.8     16417.8     84.2
                                                                2004-05      17504.9 17246.9     13838.5 12632.8      1665.0  1519.9   73.2    12.0     15726.9     80.3
                                                                2005-06      20138.7 19874.2     16116.7 14444.6      1224.2  1097.2   72.7     7.6     18777.0     76.9


                       Maintain an        Annual Report         Rs. 8800 per bed per Rs. 9250 per bed    Rs. 9445 per bed
                       adequate                                        year          per year            per year
                       expenditure for                                               (2002-03)           (2005-06)           Year    Allocation   Allocation (Rs.
                       drugs at least the                                                                                            (Rs. per bed per bed per
                       current estimated                                                                                             per year):   year):

                       level of Rs. 8,800                                                                                            Nominal      Real Terms

                       per bed per year                                                                                     1999-00       8800
                       for drugs and                                                                                        2000-01       8975        9005.0
                       ensure that this is
                       maintained for                                                                                       2001-02       9125        9065.0

                       new beds                                                                                             2002-03       9250        8760.0
                                                                                                                            2003-04       9300        8647.0
                                                                                                                            2004-05       9445        8622.0


                       Implementation     Project Implementation     Minimal         Retention at the    The user fee
                       of a user charge   Plan                                       point of            revenue has
                       policy, including                                             collection was      reached to Rs.            Year           Collection (Rs.)
                       the introduction                                              instituted in Sept. 281 million.            1998-99                     -
                       of user charges at                                            1999                                        1999-00                  14964535
                       CHC, SDH and                                                  Rates revised in                            2000-01                  31308665
                       revision of                                                   July 2001.                                  2002-02                  54824175
                       charges at DH                                                 Scheme                                      2002-03                  83755070
                                                                                     expanded to                                 2003-04                  87835679
                                                                                     non-project                                 2004-05                 281000000
                                                                                     hospitals in Dec.
                                                                                     2002.

DO 2: Improved         a.Improved
quality, effectiveness quality
and coverage of health
services
                       Increase in        Information of JDHS        25% of all      35% of all          90% of all      Year-wise progress
                       number of          NPCB                      institutions     institutions        institutions
                       institutions
                       staffed in                                                                                                  Year           % Staffing at
                       accordance with                                                                                                            project hospitals.
                       agreed norms                                                                                              1999-00                     25
                       (25% at baseline)                                                                                         2000-01                     30
                                                                                                                                 2002-02                     32
                                                                                                                                 2002-03                     35
                                                                                                                                 2003-04                     65
                                                                                                                                 2004-05                     90


                       b. Improved
                       effectiveness
                       Increase in        Hospital Activity             35.1%               72%          Latest figure
                       number of          Information                                                    available for
                       admissions to                                                                     2004: 80.8%             Pregnancy    High-risk    % High Risk
                       institutions under                                                                                        related      Pregnancy    of Total
                       the project due to                                                                                        Admissions Admissions

                       high risk                                                                                          1999       91487        32140       35.1
                       pregnancies by 5                                                                                   2000      112600        76646       68.0




                                                                          - 21 -

                         percentage points                                                                        2001         112737         78992        70.0
                         at mid-term and                                                                          2002         111734         80478        72.0
                         15 percentage                                                                            2003         116227         85101        73.2
                         points at end of                                                                         2004         118066         95383        80.8
                         project                                                                                  2005         126838



                         Increase in the    Hospital Activity        15% (estimate) Not Available  6.3% (estimate)
                         number of          Information
                         institutional                                                                                        Year            No. of Cases
                         deliveries in                                                                                      1997-98                        -
                         institutions under                                                                                 1998-99                        -
                         the project from                                                                                   1999-00                91487
                         15% at baseline                                                                                    2000-01                112600
                                                                                                                            2001-02                112737
                                                                                                                            2002-03                111734
                                                                                                                            2003-04                116277
                                                                                                                            2004-05                118066
                                                                                                                            2005-06                126838


                         c. Improved
                         access:
                         Increase           Hospital Activity          5131002      7297493        8426734
                         outpatient         Information
                         attendance in                                                                                   No.         OP Treated
                         total, among                                  Women        3721721        4055687                           MTR               End
                         women and STs,                                             (51%)          (49%)               Total OP      7297493           8426734
                         from 30% for                                                                                  Women         3721721           4055687
                         women and 10%                                                                            Data on ST utilization not available.
                         for SC/ST at
                         baseline

Project Components           Indicators        Sources of Data       Baseline Level   Mid Term      Project-end                       Achievement
Improve the              Increase number    HMIS Data Baseline          None             136       143 project
institutional            of institutions    surveys, project                                       hospitals
framework for policy     under project      progress, annual report.                                                    Year         No. of        % of 143
development and          utilizing                                                                                                   Hospitals     hospitals
strengthening            management                                                                                    1997-98             -
management and           information                                                                                   1998-99             -
implementation           systems from 0                                                                                1999-00           134         99
capacity                 at baseline                                                                                   2000-01           134         99
                                                                                                                       2001-02           136         100
                                                                                                                       2002-03           136         100
                                                                                                                       2003-04           136         100
                                                                                                                       2004-05           143         100
                                                                                                                       2005-06           143         100


Improve service          Percentage of      Hospital Activity           44.9%           44.3%          46.4%      In-patients and outpatients who received diagnostic
quality and              inpatients and     Information                                                           tests
effectiveness at         outpatients in                                                                                        Total    Lab Tests % lab tests
district, sub-divisional institutions under                                                                                 OPD+IP                 to total
and community            the project                                                                                                               OPD/IP
hospitals including      receiving                                                                                1999         5778812     2597225       44.9
drug management          diagnostic tests                                                                         2000         7514756     4329490       57.6
training, Quality                                                                                                 2001         7056313     4720737       66.9
Assurance, monitoring                                                                                             2002         8160677     3615383       44.3
and evaluation and
management of                                                                                                     2003         8501022     3876502       45.6

hospital waste                                                                                                    2004         9225935     4254043       46.1
                                                                                                                  2005         9415111     4365361       46.4


                         Increase number    Project Baseline Survey        0            50%        89898 (95%)
                         of medical staff
                         trained (clinical,                                                                          Category of Hospitals              Total
                         management,                                                                              Managerial Training                  10151
                         IEC, MIS,                                                                                Clinical Training                     8792
                         maintenance,                                                                             Subject Related Training             42738
                         referral. waste                                                                          Quality Training                      4979
                         management) and                                                                          Healthcare Waste                     11425
                         number of                                                                                Management
                         training courses                                                                         Ist round of refresher                5601
                         held under the                                                                           training in Waste
                         project according                                                                        Management
                         to plan from 0%




                                                                           - 22 -

                       at baseline                                                                              IInd round of refresher                  6212
                                                                                                                training in Waste
                                                                                                                Management
                                                                                                                Total                                   89898


                       Increase number     Reports                        0        50 (13%)       284 (72%)
                       of institutions
                       under project to                                                                               Year       No.     %
                       introduce waste                                                                              1997-98         -           -
                       management                                                                                   1998-99         -           -
                       practices based on                                                                           1999-00          16            4
                       agreed plan from                                                                             2000-01          31            8
                       0 at baseline                                                                                2001-02          45          12
                                                                                                                    2002-03          50          13
                                                                                                                    2003-04          64          17
                                                                                                                    2004-05         284          72


                       Total number of     Reports                        0        47 (31.1% )    150 (99.3% )  Phase-wise completion of civil works
                       civil works                                                 completed      completed            Year            No.        % of 143
                       grounded                                                                                                                   hospitals
                       according to plan                                                                              1997-98            -
                                                                                                                      1998-99            0              0
                                                                                                                      1999-00            0              0
                                                                                                                      2000-01            1            0.7
                                                                                                                      2001-02          12             7.9
                                                                                                                      2002-03          47           31.1
                                                                                                                      2003-04         111           73.5
                                                                                                                      2004-05         149           98.7
                                                                                                                      2005-06         150           99.3


Improve access to      Increase            Increase in awareness of  Not Available  Not Available 60% for women 25% female and 15% STs were found aware of the
basic health services, awareness of        services offered at                                    and STs       service mix offered at district and sub DHs. (Source: a
including upgrading    services offered at district and                                                         corollary finding of patient staff satisfaction survey -
community health       district and        sub-divisional hospitals                                             2005). 48% female and 37% STs were found aware of
centers, promoting     sub-divisional      among total community,                                               the service mix offered at district and sub DHs.
health services for    hospitals among     women and STs from                                                   (Source: a corollary finding of patient staff satisfaction
tribal and             total community,    20% among women and                                                  survey ­ 2005). While evaluating user fee, TISS
disadvantaged groups,  women and STs       10% among STs at                                                     (2005) revealed that 65% users and 36% households
IEC and improving      from 20% for        baseline, to 30% at mid                                              in tribal area are unaware of availability of certain
referral system        women and 10%       term, and to 60% at end                                              services as free of charge at public hospitals.
                       among STs at        of the project.
                       baseline




                                                                          - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                   Appraisal       Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                                                    Estimate         Estimate         Appraisal
                        Component                                 US$ million       US$ million
1. Management Development and Institutional                           12.40              13.00              105
Strengthening
2. Improving Service Quality and Effectiveness                        99.70             104.37              105
3. Improving Access and Innovative Schemes                            21.90              13.55               62

Total Baseline Cost                                                  134.00             130.92
 Physical Contingencies                                               12.30                0.00               0
 Price Contingencies                                                  11.80                0.00               0
                          Total Project Costs                        158.10             130.92
                  Total Financing Required                           158.10             130.92



Note:
   (1) The Actual/Latest Estimate were based on the data from the Project Management Cell, MHSDP, Public
   Health Department, Government of Maharashtra.
   (2) Amount converted to dollars at an exchange rate equal to the average (1998-2005) rate of Rupee
   45.6355=USD1.00.




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                       Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                0.00              63.30               7.10             0.00              70.40
                                       (0.00)            (57.00)             (6.30)           (0.00)            (63.30)
2. Goods                                13.00             13.00               6.40             0.00              32.40
                                       (11.60)           (11.60)             (6.00)           (0.00)            (29.20)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00              21.10             0.00              21.10
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (21.10)           (0.00)            (21.10)
4. Incremental Operating                0.00               0.00              34.20             0.00              34.20
Costs
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (20.40)           (0.00)            (20.40)
   Total                                13.00             76.30              68.80             0.00             158.10
                                       (11.60)           (68.60)            (53.80)           (0.00)           (134.00)




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                0.00              63.30             10.16             0.00             73.46
                                       (0.00)            (57.00)            (8.77)            (0.00)           (65.77)
2. Goods                                7.24              15.58              7.25             0.00             30.07
                                       (7.24)            (13.70)            (6.00)            (0.00)           (26.94)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00             11.60             0.00             11.60
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)           (11.60)            (0.00)           (11.60)
4. Incremental Operating                0.00               0.00             15.79             0.00             15.79
Costs
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (5.54)            (0.00)           (5.54)
   Total                                7.24              78.88             44.80             0.00             130.92
                                       (7.24)            (70.70)           (31.91)            (0.00)          (109.85)
Note:

(1) An amount of SDR 24.1 million was cancelled from the original Credit of SDR 97.9 million (SDR
12.2 million cancelled on July 21, 2003 and SDR 11.938 million cancelled on April 29, 2005). The revised
amount of SDR 71.8 million has been fully disbursed at the end of the project.
 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                       - 25 -

Project Financing by Disbursement Category (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                          Percentage of Appraisal
Disbursement Category         Appraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest Estimate
                           IDA       Govt.       CoF.      IDA        Govt.      CoF.      IDA     Govt.  CoF.
Civil Work - Part ABC     63.30      7.10                  66.77      7.70                 105.5   108.5
Equipment - Part ABC      29.20      3.20                  26.94      3.13                 92.3     97.8
Consultants/Training      21.10      0.00                  11.60      0.00                 55.0     0.0
Operating Costs - Part    20.40      13.80                 5.54       10.24                27.2     74.2
ABC
Total                     134.00     24.10                109.85      21.07                82.0     87.4


  Note:
      (1) The IDA disbursements were gathered from the World Bank Client Connection database (dated May
      18, 2006). The Government disbursements were derived from the expenditure data provided by the
      Project Management Cell, MHSDP.




                                                  - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              07/23/1997 -              8    Team Leader (1); Publ Health
              07/26/1997                     Specialist (1); Hospital
                                             Management Specialist (1);
                                             Public Health Specialist (1);
                                             Sr. Economist (1); Social
                                             Development Specialist (1);
                                             Financial Analysts (1);
                                             Procurement Specialist (1)
              05/24/1998 -              8    Team Leader/Economist (1);
              05/28/1998                     Public Health Specialist (1);
                                             Bio-Medical Engineer (1);
                                             Institutional Development
                                             Consultant (1); Architect
                                             Consultant (1); Financial
                                             Management Specialist (1)
                                             Operation Analysts (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Appraisal               10     Team Leader (Sr.
              07/19/1998 -                   Economists) (1); Public
              07/27/1998                     Health Specialist (2);
                                             Architect Consultant (1)
                                             Bio-Medical Engineer (1);
                                             Institutional Development
                                             Consultant (1); Social
                                             Development Specialist (1);
                                             Operations Analyst (1);
                                             Procurement Specialist (1);
                                             Program Assistant (1)
              Negotiation               5    Team Leader (Sr. Economists)
              10/26/1998 -                   (1); Economist (1); Social
              10/29/1998                     Development Specialist (1); Sr.
                                             Disbursement Officer (1); Sr.
                                             Counsel (1)

 Supervision

              06/06/1999 -              6    Team Leader (1); Public Health       S               S
              06/09/1999                     Specialist (2); Biomedical
                                             Engineer (1); Hospital
                                             Management Specialist (1);
                                             Communication Specialist (1)
              11/11/1999 -              4    Team Leader (1); Equipment           S               S
              11/14/1999                     Specialist (1); Hospital
                                             Management Specialist (1);
                                             Architect (1)




                                              - 28 -

05/16/2000 -      7  Team Leader (1); Public Health       S    S
05/21/2000           Specialist (1); Biomedical
                     Engineer (1); Hospital
                     Management Specialist (1);
                     Architect (1) Financial
                     Management Specialist (1);
                     Team Assistant (1)
11/09/2000 -      8  Team Leader (1); Public Health       S    S
11/13/2000           Specialist (2); Biomedical
                     Engineer (1); Hospital
                     Management Specialist (1);
                     Architect (1) Financial
                     Management Specialist (1);
                     Procurement Specialist (1)
05/23/2001 -      7  Team Leader (1); Public Health       S    S
05/26/2001           Specialist (2); Biomedical
                     Engineer (1); Architect (1)
                     Financial Management Specialist
                     (1); Procurement Specialist (1)
11/11/2001 -      6  Team Leader (1); Public Health       S    S
11/23/2001           Spec (2); Procurement Specialist
                     (1); Biomedical Engineer (1);
                     Architect (1)
06/02/2002 -      4  Team Leader (1); Public Health       S    S
06/05/2002           Specialists (2); Procurement
                     Specialist (1); IEC Consultant (1)
11/06/2002 -      7  Team Leader (1); Public Health       S    S
11/13/2002           Specialist (1); Biomedical
(Mid-Term            Engineer (1); Social
Review)              Development Specialist (1);
                     Architect (1) IEC Consultant (1);
                     Program Assistant (1)
November, 2003    10 Team Leader/Public Health            S    S
                     Specialist (1); Public Health
                     Specialist (2);Financial
                     Management Specialist (1);
                     Procurement Specialist (1);
                     Health Care Waste Mqanatement
                     specialist (2); Biomedical
                     Engineer (1); Architect
                     Consultant (1); Implementation
                     Specialist (1); HMIS specialist
                     (1)
07/13/2004 -      7  Team Leader/Public Health            U    S
07/17/2004           Specialist (1); Public Health
                     Specialist (2);Financial
                     Management Specialist (1);
                     Procurement Specialist (1);
                     Biomedical Engineer (1);
                     Implementation Specialist (1);
                     Implementation Specialist (1);
                     HMIS specialist (1)
06/04/2005 -      8  Public Health Specialists (2)        S    S



                     - 29 -

               06/08/2005                          Procurement Specialist (1)
                                                   Financial Management Specialist
                                                   (1) Architect Consultant (1)
                                                   Bio-Medical Engineer (1)
                                                   IEC Consultant (1)
                                                   Junior Professional (1)
               11/07/2005 -                    3   Public Health Specialists (2)         S              S
               11/14/2005                          Junior Professional (1)

 ICR
               11/07/2005-                    3     Task Team Leader (1);                S              S
               11/14/2005                           Primary Author (1)
                                                    Operations Officer (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                    22.4                            100.8
  Appraisal/Negotiation                         41.7                            187.7
  Supervision                                  165.8                            829.1
  ICR                                           10.1                            50.5
  Total                                        240.0                          1,168.1


The Actual/Latest estimates for the identification/preparation and Appraisal/Negotiation were recorded in
the PAD; and the Supervision/ICR was based on Project System Module in the SAP.




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Report No. 15753-IN; New Directions in Health Sector Development; Washington DC; 1997.
2. India: Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project: Summary of Negotiations, Oct. 29, 1998.
3. India: Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project: Development Credit Agreement, Jan. 14,
    1999.
4. India: Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project: Project Agreement, Jan. 14, 1999.

5. Aide Memoire Supervision Mission, November 2005.
6. Aide Memoire Supervision Mission, June 2005
7. Aide Memoire Supervision Mission, July 2004.
8. Aide Memoire Supervision Mission, November 2003.
9. Aide Memoire Supervision Mission, November 2002 (Mid-Term Review).
10. Aide Memoire Supervision Mission, June 2002.
11. Aide Memoire Supervision Mission, November 2001.
12. Aide Memoire Supervision Mission, May 2001.
13. Aide Memoire Supervision Mission, November 2000.
14. Aide Memoire Supervision Mission, May 2000.
15. Aide Memoire Supervision Mission, November 1999.
16. Aide Memoire Supervision Mission, June 1999.
17. Aide Memoire Appraisal Mission, July 1998.
18. Aide Memoire Preparation Mission, May 1998.
19. Aide Memoire Preparation Mission, July 1997.

Evaluations conducted in-house by MHSDP:

20. Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project: Status Report 2003
21. Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project: Project Implementation Plan; 1998
22. Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project: Status Report 2005
23. Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project: Status Report 2000
24. Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project: Status Report 1999
25. Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project: Midterm Review Savings Utilization Plan; 2002
26. Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project: Hospital Activity Information of Project Facilities;
2000
27. Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project: Status Report for Midterm Review; 2002
28. Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project: Referrals Guidelines and Protocols.
29. Analysis of Referral Reports from District and Sub-DHs.
30. Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project: User Charges Analysis of Income and Expenditure
Statements; 2001.
31. Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project: State IEC Bureau Report; 2005.
32. Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project: Hospital Activity Information of Project Hospitals
­ 1999-2004.
33. Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project: Disease Surveillance Report; 2002.
34. Mid-term Review Proposal of Additional Requirements for Disease Surveillance; 2002.
35. Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project: Project Launch Report; 1999.
36. Rapid Results Initiative Pilot Program, District Nandurbar; November 2004.
37. Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project: Report and Recommendations of Workshop on
Biomedical Waste Management; 2004.


                                                   - 33 -

38. Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project: Hospital Inspection Booklet for Sub-DHs.
39. Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project: Booklet on Evaluation of DHs Through Panel of
Experts; 2002.
40. Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project: Status of Skill Mix; 2000.
41. Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project: Manual for Recommissioning of Project Hospitals;
2003.
42. Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project: Implementation of Civil Works; 2003.

Other studies commissioned by MHSDP:

43. External Evaluation of the User Fee Scheme in First Referral Hospitals in Maharashtra. TISS,
Mumbai; 2005.
44. Evaluation of Nursing Training Program. Faith Health Care Pvt. Ltd. and Consulting Engineering
Services India Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi; 2003
45. Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project: Report on Medical Waste Management Study.
Medicon Management Services Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore; 2000
46. Manual of Medical Certification of Cause of Death. State Bureau of Health Intelligence and Vital
Statistics Maharashtra; 2002
47. IEC Report. State Health Information, Education, and Communication Bureau, Maharashtra.
48. Project Report for the New GT Super Specialty Hospital Mumbai. HOSMAC India Pvt. Ltd.,
Mumbai; 1998.
49. Patient and Staff Satisfaction in Public Hospitals of Maharashtra. TALEEM Research Institute,
Ahmedabad; 2002.
50. Patient and Staff Satisfaction in Public Hospitals of Maharashtra. Gokhale Institute of Politics and
Economics, Pune; 2003.
51. Cost of Care at Selected Project Hospitals. Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics, Pune; 2001.

Additional References:

Benbassat J, Haklai Z, Glick S, Friedman N. Determinants of hospital utilization: the situation in Israel
and selected countries. Isr Med Assoc J. 2000 Nov; 2(11).
Duckett SJ. PMID: 11974959. Australian Health Rev. 2002;25(1).
Khoo, L. International Comparison of Key Healthcare Utilization Trends. MOH Information Paper
2004/04; Government of Singapore.
Reza Khatami S. M., S.K. Kamrava, B. Ghalehbaghi and M. Mirzazadeh. National university hospital
discharge survey in the Islamic Republic of Iran. Eastern Mediterranean Health Journal; Volume 6, Issue
2/3, 2000.

Websites accessed:

www.emro.who.int
www.mohfw.nic.in
www.whosea.org
www.worldbank.org




                                                   - 34 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report

MAHARASHTRA HEALTH SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT, CREDIT NO - 3149 IN

9.1 Details Original Revised

Key Project Data

Board Approval by Board of Directors           8 Dec. 1998
Project & DCA Agreement                      14 January 1999
Project Effectiveness                        24 February 1999
Project Period                               6 Years 9 Months
Project Closing                              30 November 2005
Credit Closing                                 30 November 2005
Borrower/Implementing Agency                   Govt. Of India / Govt. Of Maharashtra

Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and Quality at Entry

9.2 Original Objective:
  (i) To improve efficiency in the allocation and use of health resources through policy and institutional
       development.
  (ii) To improve the performance of health care system through systemic enhancements in the quality and
       effectiveness of health services at the first referral level and selective coverage at the community
       level to better serve the most needy sections of society.

9.3. Project Components:
    The initial SDR Credit allocation to the Project of 97.9 million was revised to XDR 73.762 to million
    (US $ 106.63 million equivalent), consisting of three major components
    1. Management Development and Institutional Strengthening (9.79% of base cost)
    2. Improve Service Quality, Access and Effectiveness at Secondary Level Hospital (77.78% of base
        cost) and
    3. Improve access and equity to disadvantaged areas (12.43% of base cost).
    The Project financed for renovation and expansion of hospital buildings, medical equipment, vehicles,
    medicines, medical lab supplies, MIS/IEC materials, furniture, professional services and consultants,
    training, workshops, fellowship, studies conducted, salaries and operating cost and maintenance of
    building and equipments.

9.4. Achievement by Developmental Objective:
    Progress towards the achievement of the Development Objectives of the Project, including policy,
    quality, access and effectiveness, and activity indicators, is satisfactory. The Objective wise
    achievement is elaborated below:

9.4.1. Developmental Objective 1: Policy Indicators to improve efficiency:
    ·   The overall budget for the primary and secondary health sector, including external assistance,
        has increased from Rs. 12966.1 million in FY99-00 to Rs 16116.7 million in FY 05-06; in
        pursuant with the specific commitment made by the State Govt. in Development Policy Matrix.
    ·   The share of health (including externally aided projects) in the state budget increased from 3.2%
        in FY99 to about 3.5% in FY00, and increased further to 4% in FY00-01. In FY01-02 it was 3.6%



                                                       - 35 -

        but decreased to 3.16% in FY02-03 and further to 3.14% in FY 03-04, 2.6% in 04-05 with slight
        recovery of 3.38% in 05-06.
    ·   The share of resources to primary and secondary health was 79.77% at the baseline and 80.03% at
        current year (FY 05-06). It is worth noting that the decline in allocation in primary care is not
        associated with concomitant rise in tertiary care allocation, which remains hovering during
        1998-2006.
    ·   The overall object-wise allocation shows continuous decline in salary since 2001-2002; 44.97% in
        2001-02, 38.47% in 2002-2003; 39.28% in 2003-04 45.46% in 2004-05 and 45.42% in 2005-06.
        This appears to be laudable achievement.
    ·   The project sub - objectives related to drugs entails ­ "Maintain an adequate expenditure for
        drugs at least at the current estimated level of Rs. 8800 per bed per year for drugs and ensure that
        it is also maintained for new beds." The actual Expenditures for drugs per bed per year is
        incremental during the project period as given below:

                             99-00         00-01          01-02         02-03        03-04        04-05
                              8800         8975            9125         9250          9300        9445


    ·   Another area of achievement under the Project is related to user charges. Government introduced
        user charges at all levels of health institutions, revised the rates and also issued relevant orders for
        its retention and use at the point of collection itself. The year 1999 witnessed a collection of Rs. 15
        million from the user fee at the project hospitals and now the same revenue has reached to Rs 281
        million in 2005. District Hospitals happen to be the primary revenue generators from user fee. The
        revenue centers identified are OPD registration, diagnostic services, and indoor charges. The
        Government has extended the implementation of user charge policy at the non-project hospitals in a
        manner consistent with its exemption policy for those below the poverty line.

9.4.2. Developmental Objectives 2: Quality, Effectiveness and Coverage Indicators:
        a) Improved quality:
        ·    Increase in percentage of institutions staffed in accordance with agreed norms.
             Institutions staffed according to norms were 42% against the target of 35% set for the
             mid-term and 85% against the target of 90% set for the end of project.
        ·    Increase in laboratory equipment and investigations.
             The laboratory investigations per 100 out and inpatients have increased at SDH100 and OH;
             while that at DH SDH-50 and CHC are hovering.
        ·    Increase in supply of critical drugs and equipment
             The critical drugs and consumable have been supplied annually to the project hospitals. The
             supply of space occupying equipment is synchronized with the completion of civil works.
             However, the supply of minor equipment, surgical packs, waste logistics, office equipment
             etc., has been executed as per approved norms.
        ·    Increase in patient satisfaction (based on client survey for total, women and STs)
             Four rounds of Patient Staff satisfaction surveys were conducted for the sake of concurrent
             evaluation of project effectiveness. In particular, the Patient Staff satisfaction surveys in 2003
             and 2005 reveal that the satisfaction level of outpatient particularly at Other hospitals (Sub
             District Hospitals and CHC-PI) has increased tangibly; which is largely attributable to supply
             of adequate project inputs like critical drugs and equipment as well as the physical structure.
             None of the rounds of patient satisfaction surveys revealed any discrimination towards females
             and ST patients at project hospitals; which is laudable achievement. The hospital evaluation
             through consumer/NGO representatives (2005) could examine the gender sensitiveness and



                                                      - 36 -

   poor friendliness of the project hospitals and the results are positive.
b) Improved effectiveness:
·  Increase in number of admissions to institutions under the project due to high-risk
   pregnancies by 5 percentage points at mid-term, and 15 percentage points at end of project
   Overall admissions due to pregnancy related complications at all Project Hospitals have
   increased from 7% at the baseline to 12% by December 2004. Lesser admission due to
   pregnancy related complications at SDH-100, SDH-50 and CHC PI is probably attributable to
   compromised availability of obstetrician, referral system and partly to delay in
   re-commissioning.
·  Increase in the percentage of institutional deliveries in institutions under the project from
   15% at baseline to 20% at mid-term and to 30% at end of project.
   The proportion of deliveries in the total inpatients appears to hover around 14%, meaning
   thereby that the project has provided only modest contribution to this output. The tangible rise
   in institutional deliveries is witnessed only at SDH-100 indicating probably the effect of
   synchronized project inputs (material and human).
·  Increase in number of major surgeries
   The number of major surgeries at various levels of project facilities is showing continuous
   rise. This is probably attributed to the tangible advancement in the technological paradigm
   through the following project inputs:
   i.  State of the art OT complexes, equipment package like endoscopes, OT & anesthetic
   equipment
   ii. Skill enhancement of Doctors and Nurses.
·  Increase in treatment and referral of patients with selected diseases and conditions (ARI,
   childhood diarrhea, malaria, TB and pregnancy related conditions)
   The ups and down in case of both selected pediatric and obstetric cases probably indicates that
   there is a scope for the State to improve the synchronization of human and material resources
   as well as the institute demand management initiatives for optimizing the use of NICU and
   Labor suits.
c) Improved access
·  Increase total outpatient attendance, and the attendance of women and STs.
   There is a substantial rise in the outpatient attendance at the project hospitals; in spite of the
   fact that Outpatient registration fee is almost mandatory for all users and the hike in user fee
   rates in 2001. In particular, females constitute almost half of the outpatient attendees by the
   mid-term as against 46% at the baseline as per HAI 1999.
·  Increase the proportion in total outpatient attendance of women & STs, from 30% for women
   and 10% for STs at baseline, to 35% & 12% respectively at mid-term, and to 50% and 15%
   respectively at end of project.
   The proportion of females in the OPD attendees has been almost achieved, but the same is not
   true in case of proportion of STs. This meager increase with respect to STs may be because of
   difficulty in elicitation of the caste, misclassification of tribes and upward social mobility.
   While evaluating the user fee scheme, TISS (2005) has revealed a tangible rise in curative
   patient care in the tribal project hospitals, with better targeting of exemption mechanism..
·  Increase the proportion of facilities providing the defined service norms (disaggregated by
   level of facility).
   Service norm entails diagnostic, therapeutic and ancillary services for various categories of the
   hospitals, which the Project could evolve in view of the existing disease burden. Based on the
   service mix; Project Management could finalize the space norms, skill and staffing norms,
   equipment norms, training needs etc. The hospital evaluation through panel of experts could
   ascertain that 83 % of project hospitals could conform to the clinical services in the project


                                             - 37 -

            hospitals. Even in absence of appropriate skill mix, most of the clinical services defined in the
            PIP are made available at the project hospitals either through availing the services of specialist
            doctors from neighbouring hospitals or honorary/ hiring the skills.
        ·   Increase in referrals from PHCs to CHCs, area, sub-district and district hospitals
            A marginal rise in the proportion of referred in outpatients has been witnessed from 1% at
            baseline to 2.5% by December 2003. The proportion of referred in inpatient admissions have
            increased from 4% to 7%. Female comprise 46 to 50 % of referred in cases and 41 % to 50 %
            of referred out cases. The dominant feeders of referred in cases for CHC and DH are PHC and
            CHC respectively. The referred out cases of CHC and DH go to DH and teaching Hospital
            respectively. The external evaluation of user fee also reveals that Sub District Hospitals &
            Rural Hospitals have started sharing the caseload of District Hospitals; which is laudable
            development (Allocative efficiency).


        In tune with the objectives, the project was planned, implemented, monitored, supervised and took
        corrective actions for optimal utilization of all the health care facilities. The studies and survey
        carried out by external agencies regarding cost of care, utilization of facilities, evaluation of user
        fees has revealed that the project could contribute significantly to improving the health status of the
        communities. The successful execution of pilot of Rapid Result Initiative at 6 blocks of District
        Nandurbar speaks of the State's commitment towards tribal welfare. The services provided by the
        hospitals continue to be definitely pro-poor. Although, this might be just on account of `free'
        services, the fact remains that it is not only due to free service but also `good past experience of the
        hospital', as reported reasons for getting admitted to the hospital (45% response). Thus one can
        conclude that the project inputs could improve substantially the quality, effectiveness and
        efficiency. The access indicators also point to the fact that the project hospitals are poor friendly
        and in particular mother friendly.

9.5. Achievement by Component:

9.5.1. Project Component I: Improve the institutional framework for policy development and
      strengthening management and implementation capacity (Allocation- Rs. 586.81 Million;
      Investment ­ Rs. 609.06 million)
          ·   Increase number of institutions under project utilizing management information systems
              from 0 at baseline by 25 District Hospitals at mid-term. and 331 project institutions at
              end of project.
              All (143) project facilities are using health management information systems by mid-term
              and all (143) project facilities as well as 279 non Project hospitals are using health
              management information systems by the end of project as against 0 at baseline. The
              information being collected through the MIS system is utilized for decision making at many
              levels. At the hospital level this includes hospital management (service use, resource
              management, user fee collection) and patient management (quality of care, continuity of care,
              disease patterns) and at the state level it includes performance management and performance
              linked budgeting.
          ·   Number of studies, workshops and seminars conducted.
              So far, 19 studies have been accomplished. 115 workshops and seminars have been
              organized to streamline the operational aspects of the project components. The studies could
              serve policy reforms, system improvement and evaluation of on-going component or scheme.
9.5.2. Project Component II Improve service quality and effectiveness at district, sub-district and
       community hospitals including drug management training, Quality Assurance, monitoring and



                                                      - 38 -

evaluation and management of hospital waste (Allocation- Rs. 4662.11 million; Investment ­ Rs.
4638.37 million)
  ·   Percentage of inpatients and outpatients in institutions under the project receiving
      diagnostic tests from the baseline, to an additional 5% over the baseline at mid-term, and
      an additional 20% at end of project.
      The relative proportion of laboratory tests appears to be lesser at lower level of project
      hospitals, which could be a result of excessive reliance of doctors there on symptomatic
      treatment. The x-rays per 100 outpatients and in-patients have remained at around 9% as per
      Revalidated Hospital Activity Information. However, this has to be interpreted in the light of
      supply of ultrasound under the project. In the era of Evidence based Medicine, the diagnostic
      services assume greater significance.
  ·   Increase number of medical staff trained (clinical, management, IEC, MIS, maintenance,
      referral. waste management) and number of training courses held under the project
      according to plan from 0% at baseline, to 50% at mid-term, and to 100% at end of project
      .

    Disaggregate by type of hospital to determine distribution of trained personnel across hospital
    type
     Category     Manageria       Clinical    Subject      Quality   Healthcare    Ist round of IInd round
        of        l Training     Training     Related     Training     Waste        refresher    of refre.
     Hospitals                               Training               Management training in       Training
                                                                                      Waste      in Waste
    DH                4263          857          17950      2091           6125           1365        3865
    OH                 508           40           2137       249           1021            451         789
    SDH (100)         1015         1948           4274       498           1215           1290         451
    SDH (50)          2436         3180          10257      1195           2736           2244         654
    CHC PI            1929         2766           8120       946            328            251         453
    Total            10151         8792          42738      4979          11425           5601        6212


  ·   Increase number of institutions under project to introduce waste management practices
      based on agreed plan from 0 at baseline by 30% at mid-term, by 70% by end of project
      including all DH and SDH with 100 beds.
      72% of the hospitals under the Directorate of Health services (both project and non-project)
      have initiated eco-friendly waste management by December 2005. The end treatment
      engineering option of deep burial pit has been made available at 366 hospitals, while 14
      hospitals have tie up with Common Treatment and Disposal Facilities.
  ·   The proportion of civil works grounded would be 70% of plan, 10% completed, 10%
      equipped and 5% fully operational at mid-term, and 90% completion of all aspects of civil
      works at end of project
      All 151 works have been grounded and completed (100%) as on 31 December 2005.
      Re-ommissioning of all project facilities has been accomplished. The initial sensing by Ma
      Foi (2003) and the patient staff satisfaction (2005) have lauded the adequate space created in
      the project hospitals which facilitates patient and provider movement in the hospitals.
      Equipment has been supplied to them.

  ·   Patient turnover rate
        Hospitals       1999      2000     2001      2002    2003    2004 2005
        DH                63       68       69        70       69     70      73



                                            - 39 -

    OH                63       91     92       86     90      80      82
    SDH (100)         64      102     98       89     89      62      67
    SDH (50)          72       77     85       84     82      68      80
    CHC PI            52       76     80       87     96      81      95
 The decline seen in case of SDH 100 and SDH 50 has to be viewed in the light of enhancement
 in bed capacity through project.

·  Bed occupancy rate
   Hospitals            1999     2000   2001     2002    2003     2004     2005
   DH                    85       90     90       87      84       83       88
   OH                    90      121     119      86      79       69       70
   SDH (100)             84       78     79       72      63       49       55
   SDH (50)              66       61     63       56      50       46       55
   CHC PI                55       54     55       53      59       60       53
 The decline seen in case of SDH 100 and SDH 50 has to be viewed in the light of enhancement
 in bed capacity through project.

·  Average length of stay in number of days
   Hospitals       1999     2000   2001     2002   2003      2004    2005
   DH               4.9      4.7    4.6      4.7    4.44     4.32     4.41
   OH               3.9      4.9    4.6      3.7    3.17     3.16     3.09
   SDH (100)        3.2      2.9    2.9      3.0    2.73     2.86     2.97
   SDH (50)         2.6      2.8    2.6      2.4    2.23     2.25     2.52
   CHC PI           2.1      2.1    2.0      2.11   1.42     1.88     2.04
 The decline seen in ALOS could probably be viewed as an attempt to weed out inefficiency due
 to preoperative ALOS, timely discharges etc.




                                      - 40 -

·  Number of outpatients per inpatient bed day
    Hospitals      1999      2000       2001     2002       2003      2004  2005
    DH              1.0       1.2        1.1      1.0        0.94     1.01  1.09
    OH              0.8       0.8        0.8      0.67       0.78     0.64  0.64
    SDH 100         2.8       2.8        2.7      2.17       2.02     1.52  1.63
    SDH 50          2.3       3.1        2.8      2.53       2.54     2.23  2.33
    CHC PI          1.9       2.7        2.3      2.19       2.54     2.61  2.287
 Except other hospitals, all categories of hospitals are more than unity with respect to
 outpatients per inpatient bed day..

·  Percentage of admissions during a causality period to routine admissions*
    Hospitals           2000       2001      2002      2003      2004
    DH                     07        06       43         45         47
    OH                     06        58       30         44         53
    SDH (100)              15        44       48         46         45
    SDH (50)               20        24       45         51         50
    CHC PI                 15        42       38         40         41
 It appears that the availability of round the clock emergency service is increasingly ensured
 with the help of project inputs. This is expected to enhance coverage of services.
 * All admissions after regular hospital hours are deemed "casualty" admissions. This indicates the
 availability of staff at hospitals to admit patients after regular hours.

·  Percentage of inpatients acquiring infection during hospital stay: Surgical wound Sepsis
Rates
   Hospital                          2004          2005
    DH                               0.49          2.21
    OH & SDH (100)                   1.53          1.09
    SDH (50)                         2.24           2.3
    CHC PI                           0.22          0.00
 The above mentioned clinical indicators information is available for only 2004 and 2005. The
 data is used only for intra hospitals comparison.




                                             - 41 -

         ·   Percentage of facilities meeting equipment norms at each facility
             The status of installation of 9 critical equipment is as below:
                                  1999      2000      2001     2002       2003    2004    2005
               DH                    0        0        5         10        15      19      27
               SDH-100               0        0        10        10        19      21      22
               SDH-50                0        0        15        22        29      42      51
               CHC PI                0        0        15        25        29      35      39
               Total                 0        0        45        67        92     117     139

         ·   Percentage of facilities without stock out of selected essential drugs
               Not monitored precisely.

         ·   Percentage of institutions undertaking medical audits
                              1999       2000      2001       2002       2003     2004
             DH & OH          30         50        60         60         60       75
             SDH-100          0          0         0          0          10       25
             SDH-50           0          0         0          0          10       25
             CHC PI           10         15        15         15         25       25

         ·   Percentage of secondary hospitals passing inspection by panel of experts
             Year          No. of DHs          %          No. of            %
                            inspected                   SDH/CHC
                                                         inspected
             00-01              21         100.00            96           83.48
             01-02              21         100.00            98           85.22
             02-03              21         100.00           115         100.00
             03-04              20           95.24          108           93.91
             04-05              21         100.00           119         100.00

       The State endeavor of hospital evaluation is novel. The Panel of Experts discussed the strengths,
       weaknesses, opportunities and threats of the hospitals with the local Medical Superintendent and
       Civil Surgeons as a memo reading on the last day of hospital inspection.

9.5.3. Project Component III Improve access to basic health services, including upgrading community
      health centers, promoting health services for tribal and disadvantaged groups. IEC and
      improving the referral system (Allocation- Rs. 745.05 million; Investment- Rs. 424.53 million)

    ·  Increase in awareness of services offered at district and sub-divisional hospitals among total
       community, women and STs from 20% among women and 10% among STs at baseline, to 30%
       at mid-term, and to 60% at end of project

       25% female and 15% STs were found aware of the service mix offered at district and sub district
       hospitals, as per the corollary finding of patient staff satisfaction. 48% female and 37% STs were
       found aware of the service mix offered at district and sub district hospitals as per the corollary
       finding of patient staff satisfaction ­ 2005.
    ·  Awareness among doctors and nurses of functioning of referral system.



                                                    - 42 -

         70% doctors and nurses were found aware of the functioning of the referral system under MHSDP.
         This could be attributable to partial coverage of training under MHSDP. (Source: corollary finding
         of patient staff satisfaction).

9.6. Details of Activities by Project Components:
9.6.1. Management Development & Institutional Strengthening:
     (i) Improving the Institutional framework for policy development:
     The 19 studies could aid policy reforms, system improvement and evaluation of on-going component
     or scheme. Policy interventions after extensive researching in Cost efficiency and Cost recovery,
     Biomedical waste management, Biomedical Equipment Management, HMIS, Training, Supply side of
     IEC for Quality Management, Quality of care. Area wise studies are as below:
     1) Cost efficiency and Cost recovery
         a)   Cost of care at selected project hospitals
         b)   External Evaluation of User Fee
     2) Biomedical Equipment Management and use
         a)   Equipment Status Survey
         b)   Recommissioning review
     3) HMIS
         a)   Up gradation of HMIS and developing web enabled software
         b)   Revalidation of Hospital Activity Information System
     4) Biomedical waste management,
         a)   Waste Audit at selected project hospitals
     5) Training
         a)   Evaluation of 3 Weeks' Training in Hospital Management
         b)   Evaluation of Nursing Training
     6) Supply side of IEC for Quality Management
         a)   IEC strategy development
         b)   Post sevabhav and sankalp survey
     7) Quality of care
         a)   Revision of Bombay Nursing Home Registration Act ­ 1949
         b)   Development of Clinical Indicators
         c)   Patient and Staff Satisfaction 2001
         d)   Annual Patient Staff Satisfaction 2003 and 2005
         e)   Prescription audit of outpatient attendees
         f)   Medical audit of inpatient deaths
         g)   Hospital rating through External consultants
    The findings and the recommendations were discussed and deliberated in several workshops. Based on
    the consensus reached, the policy initiatives have been taken under MHSDP and Guidelines were also
    issued.

    (ii) Strengthening management and Implementation Capacity:
         Network of following Institutions was developed in order to streamline management and
         decision-making:
         i.  Project Governing Board headed by Chief secretary of Govt. of Maharashtra (8 meetings)
         ii. Project Steering Committee headed by Secretary Public Health of GOM (39 meetings)
         iii. Project Management Cell (a.Design and engineering wing; b.Medical Wing;c.Finance wing)
         iv. Regional Management cell: Asst. Director (Medical), Executive Engineer, Biomedical Engineer
         v. District Management committee headed by District Collector
         vi. Hospital Visiting Committee

         At State level, the Project has been implemented and managed by Ex-officio Secretary as Project



                                                        - 43 -

     Commissioner, supported by Senior Health Officials, Civil Engineers, Finance & Account officers,
     Procurement consultant. Officials have been trained in their respective discipline through various
     training institutions, workshops and seminar both at national and at international level, to build
     their capacity and equip them to effectively implement the project. The standardization of
     equipment norms and initial equipment status survey could help arrive at facility specific
     requirement of equipment, which was useful for preparing procurement packages. The following
     equipment maintenance modalities are instituted: 1. Annual Maintenance Contract with spare parts
     or Comprehensive Maintenance Contract (CMC) 2. Adhoc contracts - (AH) 3. In-house (through
     HEMR workshops with mobile equipment van) ­ (IH). The computerized Project Financial
     Management System has been instituted and Project Management Reports are generated for
     facilitating better control over financial matters. The monitoring and evaluation of all project
     activities have also been instituted and so is true about the arrangements for feedback.

     At Mid Term Review (November 2002), the Government had revamped the management structure
     and aligned the Project Management Cell (PMC) with the Directorate of Health Services.
     Following the Government Resolution of January 1, 2002, the implementation of several key
     components had been transferred to Bureau Chiefs in the Directorate. The Project Management
     closely coordinates the supervision and monitoring of the technical components of the Project,
     which have been transferred to the Bureau Chiefs of the Directorate of Health. As recommended
     during the Mid Term Review (MTR), Project Management has also ensured greater focus on the
     software activities and skill mix. The Project has established an efficient system to monitor the
     quality of services, hospital waste management, disease surveillance, equipment maintenance, and
     financial progress. HMIS cell has been energized for updating performance indicators and improve
     the referral system. Training on disease surveillance through GIS and computerization of hospital
     data have been given due priority by HMIS.

     At regional level, the Project has established design and engineering wings as well as Health
     Equipment Maintenance & Repair Workshops with adequate qualified trained staff. This helps to
     facilitate the timely re-commissioning of the health facility. Health Equipment Maintenance and
     Repairs (HEMR) workshops have been established in 8 Regional Head Quarters and necessary
     tools and machinery have been provided. A well-equipped Van with tools and kits have been
     provided to each HEMR for carrying out repairs on spot, servicing of equipments and users
     orientation of the hospital staff in the periphery. The Bio-medical engineers have been appointed
     and trained to service the equipments. This could result in reduced downtime and better usage of
     the equipments. Regular training and workshops were conducted for maintenance crew and
     equipment handlers both medical and para-medical.

     At District level, the District Management Committees have been formed under the chairmanship
     of District Collector for regular monitoring of reform initiatives and inter-sectoral issues needing
     convergence. A system has been adopted to track the manpower position and mismatch, and
     minimize the gap by appointing persons with the required skills on contract basis.

     At facility level, the Hospital Visiting Committee has offered a platform to improve accountability
     of the hospitals. The training programme for Heads of the hospitals in Hospital and Health
     Administration as well as the provider behavior change through HR experts helped strengthen the
     service delivery. In particular the later approach of service orientation and team building through
     HR experts is absolutely bold and pathfinder.

(iii) Developing surveillance capacity for major communicable diseases:


                                                   - 44 -

         The Disease Surveillance envisaged the reporting of 17 outbreak-prone communicable diseases to
         the Directorate of Health Services on weekly basis. The organizational structures like the State
         Rapid Response Team and District Rapid Response Teams have been created, which are now fully
         functional. Members of these teams have been trained in analytical skills related to outbreak
         investigations as well as control of outbreak. The State has shown pathfinder approach of
         networking the State, regional and district public health laboratories through the project inputs in
         order to improve their diagnostic capabilities and monitoring of epidemics. As a result; the State
         has witnessed improved quality of reporting and epidemic forecasting, quality of diagnoses and
         rapidity of responses to outbreaks in the form of investigation and prompt control of epidemic.
         This could reduce the number of morbidity and mortality. Number of institutions using surveillance
         data has improved significantly and the quality of data, quality of diagnosis and rapidity of
         response has improved.

    (iv) Developing capacity for HMIS:
         Hospital Activity Information has been streamlined and strengthened under the project. Guidelines
         have been issued to improve internal validity of hospital activity information. Integration and up
         gradation of health and hospital MIS, Web enabled software and departmental web portal have
         been novel. The set up is put to use after providing necessary equipments and training at the
         District, Regional and State level. The district level data will be transmitted to state level
         periodically for its consolidation and analysis for effective decision-making.

9.6.2. Improving Service Quality, and Effectiveness at District and Sub District Hospitals:
    (i) Upgrading Sub-District, District and other Hospitals:
        The Project has completed renovation & expansion of all 21 District Hospitals, 7 other Hospitals,
        24 Sub District Hospitals 100 bedded, and 52 Sub District Hospitals 50 bedded. In addition to
        above the project constructed 1 Arogya Bhavan at Mumbai, 1 IEC bureau at Pune, 6 Health
        Equipment Maintenance & Repairs Workshops buildings, 1 State level and 16 district Public Health
        laboratory buildings, 4 blood banks buildings, 12 Hospital Training Centers, 366 Deep Burial Pits,
        Dharamshala and 33 Trauma Care Centers. The hospitals and the project facilities were upgraded
        by providing latest equipment, supplies, furniture, drugs and vehicles according to the clinical
        norms. On completion of these buildings, adequate staffs, equipments pictorial signage have been
        provided.
    ii) Upgrading the effectiveness of clinical, Management and support services at Sub-District,
    District and other Hospitals:
        Technical staff have been recruited and trained for effective usage of supplied equipments. The
        District Management Committees have been empowered to outsource the clinical services in
        Dentistry and Psychiatry at 50 & 100 bedded sub-district hospital respectively. Major Medical
        Equipments have been procured and provided to the Project hospitals to enhance the diagnostic and
        therapeutic capabilities and capacities.
  ·     Drug Management
        Drug budget of the Government has been increasing over the years reflecting increase in per bed
        drug budget allocation from Rs.8800 in FY 99-00 to Rs.9445 in FY 2004-05. The centralized drug
        procurement using World Bank procedure could ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and
        quality assurance.
  ·     Training undertaken under the project
        The Project has to its credit huge number of staff of various cadres trained in various themes. The
        initial lessons learnt in case of nearly unstructured in-house clinical skill training at Government
        Medical Colleges made us to rethink the training strategy. Even the lauded reform with respect to
        training approach could hardly attract the trainees.


                                                       - 45 -

     ·    Quality Assurance
          The improved quality of health services has been witnessed during annual hospital evaluation
          through panel of experts, Annual Patient Staff Satisfaction survey & monitoring of core clinical
          indicators.
     ·    Monitoring and evaluation
          Ensuring optimal utilization of services at the health care facilities by development of Performance
          Indicators and their analysis, and thus bringing about regular performance appraisals through
          grading has resulted in improved effectiveness.
     ·    Biomedical Waste Management
          Bio-medical Waste Management mechanism has been adopted in almost all project and non-project
          hospitals by creating end treatment disposal options like constructing deep burial pit/landfill, tying
          up with common treatment disposal facility (CTDF).
     ·    Non-clinical services
          Non-clinical services have been outsourced in most of the hospitals and the impact is analyzed in
          terms of improved patient satisfaction with respect to dimensions like cleanliness, water supply,
          etc.. The status as on 31 August 2005 is as follows:

                             Clean       Laundry      Diet   Ambulance Driver         Security.
                               90           59         31             42                 86

          Work force analysis by BAIF, Pune and Annual Patient Staff Satisfaction rounds by M/s. Gokhale
          Institute of Politics & Economics, Pune have lauded the quality of outsourced cleaning services at
          project hospitals.

9.6.3. Improve Access and Innovative schemes (US$ 7.18 million)
(i) Selective Upgrading of Community Health centers:
    The Project has completed need-based renovation of all 39 Community Health centers without addition
    of beds; which are inclusive of 4 new additions after Mid Term Review. The hospitals were upgraded by
    providing latest equipment, supplies, furniture, drugs and vehicles according to the service norms. In
    particular the Labor suit, NICU and OT complex was provided special attention in order to improve
    access of the essential obstetric care and neonatal care.
(ii) Promoting Health services for Tribal and Disadvantaged groups:
      Health check-up camps at tribal sub centers have been conducted with an objective of providing health
      care to the tribal inhabitants. The number of total health check up camps organized from 2001-2005 is
      9043. The use of Lady Medical Officer and /or hiring Lady doctor has enhanced the access of camps
      to female. Action Research Project at Dhadgaon (Nandurbar) was executed with a view to improve the
      neonatal survival. In order to decrease the mental distance between health care providers and the tribal
      inhabitants, training was imparted to health workers in tribal dialect and culture. The traditional
      healers were offered training in primary care through non-governmental organizations and encouraging
      them for more referrals. The innovative approach of Rapid Result Initiative executed in 6 blocks of
      district Nandurbar aimed to improve health and nutritional outcome of tribal inhabitants.
(iii) Improving referral mechanism & linkages with primary & tertiary level:
      Project has implemented effective referral mechanism by providing technical support to primary level
      hospitals like PHCs / PHUs to CHCs (FRUs) and sub-district hospitals in a phased manner with
      provision of feedback mechanism to the referring institution. Based on the results of pilot
      implementation in 2 districts, the Referral mechanism has been strengthened by introducing referral
      and feedback cards, implementing referral guidelines, incentives for referred patients, improving
      transport facility and TOT training to medical officers.



                                                      - 46 -

(iv) Information, Education and Communication:
    In view of ongoing up gradation and hardware inputs, the Project Management preferred to commence
    with the Supply side IEC aiming to bring desired change in health service provider behavior, rather
    than the Demand side IEC addressing Health seeking behavior. It is absolutely an innovative,
    pathfinder and bold initiative. The training workshops through HRD experts called as Sevabhav and
    sankalp training were implemented in District Ahamednagar on pilot basis and now the endeavour has
    been replicated in 17 more district hospitals. Besides, the efforts are rolled down further to cover sub
    district hospitals and CHC-PIs through in-house key trainers. The Project Management wishes to
    recommend the Sevabhav training with some modifications.

Summary:
The Indian state of Maharashtra is having relatively better Human Development Index (55) comprised of
literacy (including female literacy), per capita income and Infant survival and also having relatively lesser
proportion of people from scheduled caste and tribe in overall national context.
    1. The economic and fiscal analysis reveals the following features:
        a)     Project has rationalized service mix based on the burden of diseases and based on it other
        norms have been standardized.
        b)     The cost recovery through user fee in the year following the end of the project has exceeded
        the anticipations.
    2. The technical analysis reveals the following features:
        a)     The exercise for selection of locations for up gradation is transparent and scientific.
        b)     Project has rationalized service mix based on the burden of diseases and based on it other
               norms namely space, skill, staff, equipment, etc. have been standardized. The clinical norms
               of 14 skills at DH, 8 at SDH 100, 5 at SDH 50 and 3 at CHC will go a long way in
               improving the health system.
    3. Institutional analysis reveals that except SPC all other institutions were created and offered
    necessary power to run the show. The activation of Hospital Visiting Committees could not yield
    desired results in view of the change in guard.
    4. The social analysis indicates the project has been very methodical and invited participation; the
    evidence of which could be revealed during the Stakeholders workshop.
    5. The environmental analysis leads us to believe that the project has been very methodical in putting
    the biomedical waste management system at both project and non-project hospitals; although further
    improvement is possible with better interface between polluters and enforcers.

    In nutshell, it is reiterated that the showcasing efforts of MHSDP are reform initiatives like user fee
    and outsourcing, client friendly civil works, standardization of equipment as an element of
    rationalization of service mix and mechanism to maintain them through HEMR, Comprehensive
    Quality Management Initiatives, Sevabhav and sankalp training as a supply side IEC endeavor,
    Biomedical waste management, Disease surveillance and Hospital Activity Information. The areas with
    honest efforts not yielding desired outputs are skill mix, staffing, referral, system tribal strategy, and
    public private collaboration. The limited success has been witnessed in training, drug management.

Lessons Learnt:
·   General belief that project mode could only be possible through a dedicated project management but
ownership dilemma could be hard to resolve.
·   Use of data locally for managerial decisions could be the sign of success of HMIS. Building analytical
    skills of local mangers could be beneficial to sustain the information culture in both surveillance and
    HMIS.



                                                      - 47 -

·   Constant interface between end user and engineer could ensure user friendliness of physical
    structure.Preventive maintenance and routine care by the user is very important to reduce the down
    time equipment
·   Identification of training areas through prescription audits, death audits, hospital audits, referral data,
    could be a novel approach and so is true about outsourcing of training to private agencies.
·   Patient and staff satisfaction should become a regular feature in order to assess and improve
    responsiveness of public hospitals. Need is felt to change the mindset of doctors working at lower level
    hospitals to shift from symptomatic approach to evidence based clinical services. To make the health
    care delivery system client friendly, the treatment and communication are two important dimensions
    needing attention.
·   Employee empowerment and bottom up approach need to be built in for sustaining the endeavor of
    Continuous Quality Improvement
·   Leaving the responsibility of Bio-Medical Waste Management to lower tier employees without
    supportive supervision may not help to sustain eco-friendly waste management practices.
·   The project has provided modest referral support to primary health care. Completion of referral loop is
    vital and demand for regular interface between various levels of health care providers.
·   For improving access to critically ill BPL cases, it is essential to monitor the use of user fee revenue for
    free transportation.
·   Although, the tribal strategy of MHSDP envisioned enhanced service use by vulnerable people, its
    sustainability and regularization will need attention.

Bank Performance
Bank
Lending: Satisfactory. The project was well prepared with strong involvement from both the Bank and
State Government. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) is a summary document consistent with both
State and Bank priorities. For the most part, preparation teams were fielded with the required expertise and
the skill-mix was maintained throughout identification, preparation, and appraisal / negotiation. Important
area of expertise, however, was inadequately represented ­ private sector development. This inadequacy is
reflected in a lack of attention to a comprehensive approach toward facilitating engagement and
development of the private health sector. Assessment was slightly hindered by the lack of measurability of
development objectives and specifications of some performance monitoring indicators (baselines, targets,
etc) in the PAD.

Supervision: Satisfactory. Overall project supervision and reporting was adequate, for the most part, as
were mission terms of reference, frequency of supervision and time spent in the field. Aide-Memoires and
follow-up letters focused on key, specific detected implementation problems, suggested interventions, and
follow-up agreed actions for the State. The team was innovative and efficient in its use of resources, and
made good use of support from the India Country Office; third parties were involved when needed. The
supervision effort also deserves credit for fostering learning exchanges among the states, and in dealing
effectively with implementation barriers.

However, the supervision of the Bank Mission was more focused on the implementation efforts of the
Project Management Unit; leaving the interaction with the Government (Health Department) and other
decision makers limited to only during wrap up meetings. There were many issues requiring active
involvement and intervention of other departments of Government. Ideally widening of the scope of
supervisory mission and involvement of the Government and key decision makers in regular review and
appraisal could speed up the implementation of the time bound projects. The focus of Mission on the
conformance to the commitments made by the State Government could have benefited in achieving the



                                                     - 48 -

developmental objectives in its true spirit.

 Overall Bank performance: The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory.

9.7 Recommendations to Ensure Sustainability:
The Government of Maharashtra is fully committed to the reforms and many policy level decisions that
have been already addressed thus paving way for sustaining the various reforms and innovations started
under the project.
 1. Optimum collection of user charges, with the exemption of poor people (BPL Patients)
 2. Internal Autonomy to the Hospitals for usage of revenue levied.
 3. Ensuring the maintenance of the standards at all the health care facilities by strengthening outsourcing
    of non-clinical services, with adequate budgetary support.
 4. Ensuring continuation of eco-friendly practices in Waste Management and compliance to legal
    mandate;
 5. Sustaining the quality of care through employee empowerment and decentralized decision-making and
    addressing the issues emerged during annual patients staff satisfactions survey,evaluation of panel of
    experts.
 6. Ensuring right staff at the right place through timely appraisals and appointing specialists on contract
    basis or sharing the specialist between district and sub-district hospitals to address mismatch.
 7. Providing adequate budget for drugs and essential supplies.
 8. Exploring and enhancing the scope for private and public partnership.
 9. Better monitoring of performance of each hospital/facility with timely data analysis using GIS and
    Web enabled HMIS. Grading and timely action to overcome the shortcomings/deficiency in service
    delivery
10. Ensuring better attendance of hospital staff through enforcement of disciplinary action against erring
    staff.
11. Ensuring appropriate budgetary allocations and its timely utilization by the hospitals.
12. Keeping pace with technical advancement, through the regular continuing medical education session
    and skill enhancing trainings for health care providers.
13. Internalizing the service orientation and team building among the health care providers by replicating
    the efforts put during the pilot implementation.
14. Ensuring proper equipment maintenance through planed preventive maintenance (PPM) and immediate
    breakdown repair of critical complex equipment either through CMC or ad-hoc maintenance.
15. Finalizing the modality of maintaining the physical structure created under the project either through
    regular PWD or by creation of dedicated in-house engineering wing.
16. Enhancing the coverage to disadvantaged people by establishing service delivery linkage on regular
    basis between sub-district hospitals and PHCs in tribal and hilly area.

9.8 Financial Achievement:
At appraisal, the total project cost including contingencies was estimated at Rs.7475.8 million (US$ 158.1
million / SDR 97.9 million) of which IDA financing was estimated to be US$ 134 million. However, the
World Bank cancelled the credit equivalent to SDR 12.2 million and SDR 11.938 million on July 21, 2003
and April 29, 2005 respectively. Thus the total cancellation amounted to US$ 34.857 million. As of date
the available IDA Credit of SDR 73.762 million turned out to be equivalent to US$ 106.52 million rather
than US$ 134 million as had been the case at the time of appraisal. As on date, about US $ 105.02 million
has been disbursed, this is 98.59 percent of the revised allocation. The claims worth Rs. 339 million
(equivalent to US$ 7.53 million) have been submitted to CAAA; for which disbursement is awaited. After
reimbursement of these claims, the disbursement would be about US$ 106.52 million i.e. about 100 percent
of the revised allocation.


                                                     - 49 -

All the remaining project activities have been completed and the entire available credit has been utilized.
The withdrawal applications for the balance credit of US$ 1.5 equivalent by 31 January 2006 will be
submitted to the World Bank.




                                                   - 50 -

Additional Annex 9. Additional Analysis of Health Sector Allocations

Additional Analysis of Health Sector Allocations and Quality and Effectiveness Indicators
Increased share of resources for the primary and secondary levels of health care in the total resources
(plan and non-plan) allocated to the health sector: The share of health (including externally aided
projects) in the state budget increased from 3.2% in 1999 to about 3.5% in 2000 and 4% in 2001. There
was a subsequent decline to 3.6% in 2002, 3.16% in 2003, and a further decline to 3.14% in 2004 and
2.6% in 2005. In 2005-06, the share of health was about 3.38%. Total allocations to the health sector
(Plan and Non-Plan) have increased from Rs. 12,966.1 million in 1999-00 to Rs. 20,138.7 million in
2005-06: this represents an increase of 64% in nominal terms over the project period. Of this, the share of
the primary and secondary levels has remained steady at about 80%.


           % Primary + Secondary Allocations to total Health
                                 Budget


   83
   82
   81
   80
   79
   78
   77
       1997- 1998- 1999- 2000- 2001- 2002- 2003- 2004- 2005-
        98      99     00      01   02     03      04     05    06


     Source: Budget at a Glance Document, GOM; relevant years.


Funding provided through MHSDP contributed about 10% of total health sector resources on average
during the project period (see Table 1). If such funding were to be excluded from both the total Health
Budget and from the allocation to primary and secondary levels, it appears that the total allocation to
primary and secondary levels rose from about 79% in 1999-00 to 86.9%, 88.5%, 86.9% and 84.2% in the
subsequent four years. It declined a little further to 80.3% in 2004-05 and was at 76.9% at the end of the
project. This seems to indicate that MHSDP funds were an additionality, although there may have been
some substitution for government funding towards the end of the project .




                                                       - 51 -

     Table 1: Contribution of MHSDP to Primary and Secondary Health Budget (in real terms)


                                                                                                                   Pr+Sec as
                                                                                      Pr.+Sec.  MHSDP    T. Health   % of
             Total         Total       Total        Total                              as % of  as % of  without   T. Health
            Health         Health     Pr.+Sec.     Pr.+Sec.    MHSDP     MHSDP        T. Health Pr.+Sec. MHSDP     without

           Nominal          Real      Nominal       Real       Nominal     Real         Real     Real      Real    MHSDP


1999-00        12966.1                  10342.5                    670.0

2000-01        14805.5       14762.7    11767.9       11806.7     1176.0    1179.9          80.0     10.0   13582.8     86.9

2001-02        15947.9       15905.1    13023.5       12938.4     1293.0    1284.5          81.3      9.9   14620.6     88.5

2002-03        17182.4       16543.2    14132.9       13384.4     1210.0    1145.9          80.9      8.6   15397.3     86.9

2003-04        18575.2       18321.1    14858.7       13815.6     2047.0    1903.3          75.4     13.8   16417.8     84.2

2004-05        17504.9       17246.9    13838.5       12632.8     1665.0    1519.9          73.2     12.0   15726.9     80.3

2005-06        20138.7       19874.2    16116.7       14444.6     1224.2    1097.2          72.7      7.6   18777.0     76.9
Source: Budget at a Glance Document, GOM; relevant years.



Adequate expenditures for drugs at least at the current estimated level of Rs. 8,800 per bed per year for
drugs: Overall drug expenditure per bed per year has increased over the project period from Rs. 8,800 in
1999-00 to Rs. 9,445 in 2004-05. This covers the 3,175 new beds added under the project as well. It
represents a nominal increase of about 7% per bed over the project period: as a comparison, the drug
expenditure per bed per year in Andhra Pradesh in FY02 was Rs. 8,000, and in Orissa it is currently Rs.
7,974. MHSDP's contribution to the drug budget increased gradually, until in 2003-04, Rs. 8,810 per bed
per year out of Rs. 9,300 was contributed by the project. This later tapered off, and in 2005-06, the project
contributed about 8% of the total budget. This covers all beds at the hospitals under the project. This
again indicates that MHSDP funds substituted for state funds in the provision of drugs; however, the KPI
specified only total expenditures on drugs, but not the source of funding. Increased availability of
medicines is reflected in reduced out-of-pocket expenses for the purchase of medicines at project hospitals:
Patient Satisfaction Surveys have found that average patient expenditure on medicine per illness episode
reduced from Rs. 79.0 to Rs. 53.0 between 2003 and 2005. .       8




                           MHSDP Contribution to Drug Allocation


  10000

    8000                                                             Drug budget per bed per
    6000                                                             year

    4000                                                             MHSDP Contribution
    2000

        0
          1999-     2000-  2001- 2002- 2003-   2004- 2005-
            00       01     02    03     04      05      06


Source: MHSDP Status Report for the ICR and Review Mission; November 2005.


Overall availability of funds for non-salary expenditures appears to have increased between 1999-00 and
2005-06. Due to compliance with the recommendations of the 5th Pay Commission in 1997, salaries as a



                                                         - 52 -

proportion of the total budget had increased to 65.7% in 1999-00. Subsequently, with an increase in total
allocations to the health sector, and no further increase in salaries, this proportion began to decline and
amounted to 45.4% in 2005-06. The budget for contingencies (see Table 2), including maintenance of
buildings and equipment, and operation costs of vehicles (including ambulances), rose from 11.6% of the
health budget in 1999 to a high of 15.8% in 2002; then declined to 11.7% in 2006. In nominal terms, there
was a 57% increase in the budget for contingencies over the project period.v


                                       Table 2: Contingency Budget 1999-2006

                          Year                State Health Budget Budget for         %
                                                                    Contingencies
                          1999-2000                         10342.51         1195.59   11.6
                          2000-2001                         11767.89         1628.60   13.8
                          2001-2002                         13023.46         2053.95   15.8
                          2002-2003                         14132.92         1896.64   13.4
                          2003-2004                         14858.65         1959.86   13.2
                          2004-2005                         13838.52         1702.14   12.3
                          2005-2006                         16116.68         1879.20   11.7
                          % Increase                           155.8            157.2



                 Source: Budget at a Glance; relevant years.


Implementation of a user charge policy in all project facilities: User charge collections have increased
dramatically over the project period, from Rs. 14.9 million in 1999-00 to Rs. 281.9 million in 2004-05.
District Hospitals (DH) continue to collect the bulk of user fees; however, the share of Other Hospitals
(OH), Sub-Divisional Hospitals (SDH) and Community Health Centers (CHC) has increased from 19% of
the total in 1999-00 to 31% in 2004-05.

Data indicates that the revenue generated through user charges has clearly increased non-salary recurrent
expenditures. For example, prior to 2001, average monthly collections and expenditures at DHs amounted
to about Rs. 1.12 million and Rs. 0.4 million respectively; with the rate increase in 2001, collections and
expenditures rose to Rs. 3.19 million and Rs. 0.8 million respectively. This should increase substantially
when the ban on expenditures is lifted after the completion of the investigation of allegations of
misutilization of funds at two DHs.




                                                         - 53 -

                                Table 3: Proportion of Exempted Patients of Monthly Inflow of Patients


                       Paying          Exempted       Total          % Exempted Paying       Exempted Total  % Exempted
                       pre2001*        pre2001                       of total      post-     post-2001       of total
                                                                                   2001**
       District Hosp.         55994             10405        66399            15.7      57817    11700  69517        16.8
       SDH-100                16209               4322       20531              21      18733     4212  22945        18.3
       SDH-50                 25595               3815       29410              13      21518     5710  27228         21
       CHC-PIs                80016             15171        95187              16      98069    21623 119692         18
       Total                 176036             33377      209413               16     215751    47570 263321         18



    *    Period from October 1999-July 2001
    ** Period from August 2001 to December 2004
    Source: Data generated from various records maintained at the hospital (TISS, 2005).

The levying of user charges appears not to have had a negative impact on utilization of services. Overall,
the monthly utilization by paying patients increased from 0.17 million to 0.21 million (22.5% increase)
after the rate increase in 2001; and monthly utilization by exempted patients increased from 33,377 to
47,570 (42.5% increase). In the case of tribals, the increase among paying patients was much greater
(73.6%) than among exempted patients (11.8%). This could partly be due to poor health seeking behavior
among the poorer and more marginalized tribal groups who would be eligible for exemption from user
charges. The proportion of exempted patients availing of services increased at all types of facilities except
SDH-100; and overall there was an increase in use by exempted patients from 16% to 18%.

Indicators of Increased Quality and Effectiveness of Services

Increase in Diagnostic Tests. Since data on laboratory investigations has not been maintained separately
for in-patients and out-patients, calculating the increase specifically for in-patients is not possible.
However, there has been a substantial increase in investigations overall: laboratory investigations and
X-rays had increased by 39% and 9% over the baseline respectively at the mid-term and by 68% and 48%
respectively by the end of the project ­ this far exceeds the KPI on laboratory investigations.

                             Table 4: Increase in Diagnostic Tests at Project Hospitals

                                                                                                                 %
                                                                                                     % Increase Increase
                    1999         2000         2001       2002         2003          2004     2005    at MTR      at EOP*
  Lab Tests        2597225      4329490      4720737    3615383       3876502      4254043   4365361       139.2       168
  X-rays            291626       293352        362087    319829         312812      355459    431696       109.7       148



Source: Revalidated Hospital Activity Information.
*EOP = end of project.

There are variations between levels of hospitals in the use of diagnostic tests; for example, at SDH-50,
there has been a steady decline in laboratory investigations due to the increasing use of syndromic
management for RTI/STI, malaria etc. Declines in 2002/2003 were largely due to disruption in services
during the re-commissioning of hospitals. Utilization of X-ray has also been influenced by the provision of




                                                         - 54 -

ultrasound technology at all hospitals.

Increase in Major Surgeries


                           Table 5: Increase in Major Surgeries at Project Hospitals

                                                                                                          %
                                                                                                          Increase
                                                                                                          over
  Major Surgeries                 1999         2000         2001       2002    2003    2004         2005  Baseline
   Dist.Hospitals                   38364        64883         64440 82941      89873     94652     100410     261.7
   Other Hospitals                    5978        9537           7504    9196    9986     8759        8788       147
   Sub-Dist Hosp.(100 Beds)           3622        7072           6430 14014     21344     19244      23928     660.6
   Sub-Dist Hosp.(50 Beds)          13320        13896         15583 24717      23297     26715      39931     299.7
   CHC-PI                             5610       10892           8486 14943     20272     19753      24024     428.2
   Total                            66894       106280        102443 145811    164772   169123      197081     294.6



                           Source: Revalidated Hospital Activity Information.


The number of major surgeries conducted at project facilities has increased from 66,894 in 1999 to
197,081 in 2005 ­ a three-fold increase. The increase has been consistent across all levels of hospitals; and
is an indication of the increased access to such specialist services even at lower level facilities.

Bed occupancy rates (BOR) have increased from an average of 51% at baseline to about 77% at the end
of project; with DH and OH averaging greater than 80%. Occupancy varies between levels of facilities due
to: (i) increase in number of beds, particularly at SDH-100 and SDH-50; and (ii) variable case mix, with
lower level hospitals having a greater number of same day or short stay patients. This compares well with
BOR of 85% in Hong Kong (2001), 73% in Singapore (2002); and is higher than in the Netherlands at
65.7% (2000); and Iran at 57.4% (2000).

The project has contributed to the overall availability of beds. In Maharashtra, there were 119,927 beds in
1999, including beds at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels of care in the government sector, and
private sector beds. This amounts to about 1.2 beds per 1,000 population. This increased by 20,547 beds
to 140,474 beds in 2005 or about 1.4 beds per 1,000 population. As a comparison, Pakistan had 0.64 beds
per 1,000 population (2001), Sri Lanka had 2.9 beds (2000) and Nepal had 0.19 (1997). Of this, about
15% are at the first referral/secondary level. The 3,175 beds contributed by the project constitute about
15% of the overall increase in beds. While the number of beds at the tertiary level also increased (by 5,753
additional beds), it cannot be concluded that this constitutes a diversion of government funds from the
primary and secondary to the tertiary level, since government allocations to the primary and secondary
levels of care initially increased in real terms and thereafter declined only marginally towards the end of the
project.




                                                        - 55 -

                       Table 6: Comparative profile of beds according to health facilities during 1999 and 2006 -
                                                             Maharashtra
                                                                               1999              2006Addition
                             Sector                Facilities                      a                bc = (a - b)
                                            PHC                               10170             10884             714
                   Primary                  Dispenseries                       1688              1688               0
                                            CHC                                8972
                                            SDH 50                                 0
                   First referral           SDH 100                                0            14530         5558

                   Secondary                DH                                 7035              7518             483
                   Tertiary                 Medical College                   21123             26876            5753
                   Private                  Pvt. (Estimated)                  70939             78978            8039
                                            Total                            119927            140474           20547




Taking data for 2005, with 988,377 in-patients at project hospitals and an average length of stay (ALOS)
of about 3.46 days (see below), this amounts to about 3.42 million cumulative in-patient days or 34
in-patient days per 1,000 population. However, project hospitals constitute only about 15% of all beds
available in the state; if similar BOR and ALOS were applied to all hospitals beds in the state, it would
yield a figure of 226 in-patient days per 1,000 population in 2005. In Iran, the rate was 68.3 in-patients
per 1,000 population (2000). Comparative numbers for Australia are 300 in-patient days per 1,000
population, 440 for Singapore; and 998 for Hong Kong. Given that the age profile in Maharashtra, as in
the rest of India, is relatively young, lower levels of hospitalization are to be expected. In addition, the
epidemiological profile still exhibits a large proportion of communicable diseases and relatively lower
incidence of chronic conditions requiring long-term care, resulting in less hospitalization. Finally,
socio-cultural factors such as poverty and lower literacy rates act as barriers to health seeking behavior.

ALOS has declined from 12 days at baseline to 3.46 days at the end of the project ­ this compares well
with experience in Israel and elsewhere, with ALOS of about 4.5 days. The monitoring and tracking of
ALOS by the MHSDP is an important step towards monitoring the efficiency of the hospital system;
further refinement is necessary in terms of looking at the case mix, and reporting separately for each
clinical area so as to ensure that quality of care is not being sacrificed in the interests of keeping the ALOS
low.

Additional quality and effectiveness indicators have been tracked by the project. Number of out-patients
per in-patient bed day, and number of out-patients per physician per year appear to have remained quite
steady through the project period, with marginal increases. Admissions during the casualty period went up
substantially from 333,517 at baseline to 505,109 in 2005 ­ a 50% increase. The nosocomial infection rate
is low at an average of about 1.5%
across all hospitals.




                                                       - 56 -

              Table 7: Selected additional Quality and Effectiveness Indicators


               ·   Number of outpatients per inpatient     Year                  OP per Bed
                   bed day                                 1997-98               -
                                                           1998-99               -
                                                           1999-00               1.73
                                                           2000-01               2.11
                                                           2001-02               2.08
                                                           2002-03               1.70
                                                           2003-04               1.76
                                                           2004-05               1.39
                                                           2005-06-              1.85
               ·   Number of outpatients per physician     Year                  OP per Phys per year
                   per year.                               1997-98               -
                                                           1998-99               -
                                                           1999-00               7478
                                                           2000-01               6788
                                                           2001-02               7625
                                                           2002-03               7568
                                                           2003-04               7845
                                                           2004-05               7524
               ·   Admissions during the casuality period  Year                  Admn. during casualty
                                                           1997-98               -
                                                           1998-99               -
                                                           1999-00               0
                                                           2000-01               333517
                                                           2001-02               355018
                                                           2002-03               366168
                                                           2003-04               408566
                                                           2004-05               446478
                                                           2005-06               505109
               ·   Number of inpatients acquiring          Hospital  DH     OH&SDH    SDH        CHC
                   infection during hospital stay                           (100)     (50)
                                                           2004      0.49   1.53      2.24       0.22
                                                           2005 upto
                                                           July      2.21   1.09      2.3        0




Comparison between project and non-project hospitals reveals that project hospitals have performed
much better on all performance measures. The difference in mean performance between a small sample of
project and non-project hospitals is quite substantial. Table 9 shows that in 2005, on average, project
hospitals in the sample had 82% more OPD and 46% more in-patients than non-project hospitals. 31%
more deliveries and 68% more surgeries were conducted at project hospitals; and the BOR on average was
about 55% at project hospitals as compared to 31% at non-project hospitals, a 56% difference.




                                                        - 57 -

                 Table 8: Difference in Mean Performance:
                    Project and Non-Project Hospitals*

                  Project and                 Non-
                  Non-Project      Project    Project     %
                  Hospitals        Mean       Mean        Difference
                  OPD                 26312.5       21665       82.3
                  IPD                    4230      1947.5         46
                  Deliveries            355.7       110.2         31
                  Major Surgeries       299.7       204.5       68.2
                  BOR                      55          31       56.4



* Analysis is based on data from a comparison of a small sampe of 5 project and non-project hospitals
  conducted by Dr. Bhale Rao, Panelist; commissioned by MHSDP.




                                            - 58 -

- 59 -

