Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18403-IN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 97.9 MILLION
TO
INDIA
FOR A
MAHARASHTRA HEALTH SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 5, 1998
Health, Nutrition and Population Sector Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of September 1998)
Currency Unit = Rupee
Rupees 42.5 = US$1.0
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CHC            Community Health Center
DHS            Directorate of Health Services
DMC            District Management Committee
GOI            Government of India
GOM            Government of Maharashtra
GSDP           Gross State Domestic Product
HMIS           Health Management Information System
IDA            International Development Association
IEC            Information, Education and Communication
MCH            Maternal and Child Health
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
MOHFW          Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
NGO            Non-Govermmental Organization
O&M            Operations and Maintenance
PFMS           Project Financial Management System
PGB            Project Governing Board
PHC            Primary Health Center
PHD            Public Health Department
PIP            Project Implementation Plan
PMC            Project Management Cell
PMR            Project Management Report
PSC            Project Steering Committee
SPC            Strategic Planning Cell
SA             Special Account
SC/STs         Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes
SDH            Sub-Divisional Hospitals
STD            Sexually Transmitted Disease
WDR            World Development Report
Vice President:          Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:        Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager:          Richard Skolnik
Team Leader:             Tawhid Nawaz



India
Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objectives                                             2
1. Project Development Objectives and Key Performance Indicators       2
B. Strategic Context                                                          2
1. Sector-Related CAS Goal Supported by the Project                    2
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy                          2
3. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices  3
C. Project Description Summary                                                4
1. Project Components                                                 4
2. Key Policies and Institutional Strengthening Supported by the Project  5
3. Benefits and Target Population                                      6
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements                       6
D. Project Rationale                                                          7
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection          7
2. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank
and/or Other Development Agencies                                   9
3. Lessons Learned and Reflected in Proposed Project Design            9
4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership                    10
5. Value Added of Bank Support in this Project                         10
E. Summary Project Analyses                                                   10
1. Economic                                                            10
2. Technical                                                           11
3. Institutional                                                       11
4. Social                                                              12
5. Enviromnental Assessment                                            13
6. Participatory Approach                                              13
F. Sustainability and Risks                                                   14
1. Sustainability                                                      14
2. Critical risks                                                      14



G. Main Loan Conditions                                                       14
1. Coniditions of Negotiations                                         14
2. Other Covenants                                                     15
H. Readiness for Implementation                                               15
1. Compliance with IDA Policies                                               16
Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary                                          18
Annex 2.      Detailed Project Description                                    20
Annex 3.      Letter of Health Sector Development Policy                      27
Annex 4.      Estimated Project Costs                                         32
Annex 5.      Public Expenditure Analysis for the Health Sector               41
Annex 6.      User Charges                                                    47
Annex 7.      Procurement and Disbursemenit Arrangemilenits                   54
Annex 8.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule                          62
Annex 9.      Documents in Project File                                       63
Annex 10.    Statement of Loans and Credits                                   64
Annex 11.    Country at a Glance                                              68



India
Maharashtra Health Systems Developmerit Project
Project Appraisal Documient
South Asia Region
Date: November 5, 1998                              Team Leader:  Tawhid Nawaz
Country Director: Edwin R. Lim                       Sector Manager: Richard Skolnik
Project ID: 50651                                    Sector: Health. Population and Nutrition
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Credit       Program of Targeted Intervention: Yes
Project Financing Data                [] Loan       [X] Credit       [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specifyl
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$134.0 million
Proposed terms:                        [x]  Multictirrenicy    []  Single currenicy, specify
Grace period (years): 10 years    []   Standard Variable  [   Fixed            []    LI BOR-based
Years to maturity: 35 years,
including grace
period
Commitment fee: not to exceed
1/2 of 1% per
annum%
Service charge: 3/4 of 1% per
annum%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                            Local             Foreign            Total
Government of Maharashtra                                  24.1                                 24.1
IDA                                                       105.0               29.0             134.0
Total                                                      129.1              29.0             158.1
Borrower: India, Acting by its President
Responsible agency: Department of Health and Family Welfare, Government of Maharashtra
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    1999       2000        2001     2002    2003   2004
Annual    1.0        12.0        27.0     38.6    34.0   21.4
Cumulative    1.0        13.0       40.0      78.6    112.6  134.0
Project implementation period: 5 1/2 years                        Expected effectiveness date: March 1999
Completion date: September 30, 2004



A: Project Development Objectives
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The objectives of the proposed project would be to assist the Government of Maharashtra (GOM) to: (i)
improve efficiency in the allocation and use of health resources through policy and institutional
development; and (ii) improve the performance of the health care system through systemic enihanicemenits
in the quality, effectiveness and coverage of health services at the first referral level and selective coverage
at the community level. The project would target the neediest sections of society, especially womiieni and
tribal populations (about 9%), a majority of whom reside in remote and far-flung hilly terrain. It would also
support other health programs under implementation which are addressing the main healtlh conditions in the
state. Annex I provides a list of indicators, from whicih a few monitorable indicators have been selected to
measure the developmental impact of the project.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported hy thte project (see Annev 1):
General. The Country Assistance Strategy (Report No. 1 7241-IN, dated December 19, 1997, discussed by
the Board on January 15, 1998) recommends a focus for Bank Group-financed investments on states whicih
are supporting policy reform, including sector specific policy initiatives. It also provides a basis for
supporting Government of India's (GOI) efforts to provide an enabling environimenit for broad-based.
efficient private sector-led growth while accelerating the development of humani resources. The proposed
project supports these objectives by strengthening institutional capacity, supporting policy development,
upgrading effectiveness and quality of services and enhanicinig community participation at the commnUllity
and first referral levels of health care. The proposed project also fits IDA's missionl in targeting
underserved populations such as women and scheduled castes and scheduled tribes (SC/STs).
Sectoral. In the human resources sectors, IDA's objective is to support restructuring of social programs to
enhance their effectiveness, improve quality of life, and provide the poor with increased opportunlities to
participate more fully in the economy. IDA's specific objective is to work with public, private and
voluntary sectors towards (a) improving primary care and nutrition policies; (b) consolidatinig disease
control efforts; and (c) upgrading state health systems. In support of this strategy, a series of projects has
been financed by IDA. The basis of this strategy for the healtlh sector in India is rooted in an on-going
dialogue between GOI and IDA, and is reflected in two recent pieces of sector work: India: Policy and
Finance Strategies for Strengthening Primary Health Care Services, May 1995; and India: New Directions
in Health Sector Development at the State Level: An Operational Perspective, February 1997. The
proposed project would support this strategy in Maharashtra.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The major challenges in delivering a package of health care services and enhancing the performance of
health delivery systems at the state level are summarized below:
Financing Issues: In the public sector, provision and financing of health is a shared responsibility of the
central and state governments. Close to three-fourths of the financial burden for the health sector is borne
by the states. However: (i) the overall fiscal situation in the states has generally deteriorated, with a rise in
the fiscal deficit, an increase in interest payments as a share of total revenues, and an increase in debt
outstanding as a share of state domestic product; (ii) within the health sector, resource allocation in the
public sector is skewed in favor of tertiary care services relative to the needs at the primary and secondary
levels; and (iii) much of the resources are absorbed by the salary costs, and the recurrent budgets for
operations and maintenance are chronically underfunded.
Performance of Health Systems: India is facing an epidemiological transition in which the country will
simultaneously have high rates of communicable diseases and non-communicable diseases. This dual
burden of disease facing India is compounded by: (i) the government's health care strategy, which is
2



anchored on population-size based norms rather than specific health needs at the community level, (ii) the
technical efficiency of key programs which is seriously limited, as service functions are duplicated and
technical paradigms have become out of date; and (iii) inadequate attention to workforce issues including
insufficient incentives for staff, and limited in-service training.
Capacity for Management, Planning and Coordination: There has been progress in recent years in the
availability, quality and use of information on health financing and management capacity at the central and
state levels. However, the overall capacity for management, planining and coordinationi remains limited in
the government sector. Moreover, the present financial managernent system is not well developed and
focuses more on book-keeping and expenditure control, where it is difficult to obtain costing and
management accounting information and capture and produce timely inforinationl for taking sound
managerial decisions.
Public-Private Partnerships in the Health Sector: The private sector, whicil accouLits for about 80% of
health spending largely from out-of-pocket sources, plays a domiiianit role in thie provision of individual
curative care through ambulatory healthi services, whereas the public sector provides publicly managed and
financed preventive and promotive healthi services such as immuniZation, ante-niatal care, infectious disease
control and hospital-based care. Despite the comparative advantage of each of the two sectors, public-
private partnerships have not been fully exploited. The maini challenges with regard to public-private roles
include: (i) enhancing the scope of the private sector while improvi ng the quality of its services; (ii) findinlg
the appropriate mix between direct provision versus the finanlcinig of health care by the public sector; (iii)
encouraging private sector involvement in the preventive and promotive aspects of healthi care; and (iv)
improving the existing arrangements for monitoring private healthi care providers.
Essential Public Health Functions. To improve the overall performance of the healthi sector, it is important
to strengthen India's essential public healthi functions. These include: immunization and other maternal and
cihild health programs, programs to combat communicable diseases sucih as malaria and tuberculosis,
HIIV/AIDS, disease surveillance, food and drug quality control and research and development. Moreover,
the public sector has an important role to play in enhanicinig the effectiveness and access of healthi care,
especially for the poor who have limited access to private services.
Government Strategy: India has made substantial progress in improving the healthi status of its population
over the past two decades. Health is one of the six priority areas identified in the Ninth Plan (1997-2002).
GOI has determined that public investments in healthi are critical for the sustainability of development and
poverty alleviation in India. The Nintil Plan emphasizes successiFul preventive and promotive activities,
better control of communicable and noni-communicable diseases, improved surveillance and improved
systemic efficiency. More recently, the Central Council of Health and Family Welfare has noted the
importance of linking preventive and promotive care with selective aspects of curative care whicih is
provided at first referral hospitals.  Since the states are largely responsible for the financing and
implementationi of health programs, these issues need to be addressed at the state level.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by thle project and strategic choices:
Financing Issues: Public resources allocated to the health sector in Maharashtra, as in other Indian states,
are inadequate to meet basic health care needs.  The governmient has expressed its commitment to
implement selected financing policy to support the investment program. These include: (i) enhancing
budgetary allocations to the health sector; (ii) increasing the share of resources to the primary and
secondary levels of health care; (iii) allocating adequate resources for drugs, essential supplies, and
operations and maintenance (O&M); and (iv) raising supplementary funds through user charges.
Performance of Health Systems: The health care delivery system in Maharashtra suffers from several
institutional problems. The project chooses to address systemic, broad-based problems faced at the first
referral and community levels rather than providing ad hoc or piecemeal solutions. Systems to be
strengthened include: overall management, procurement of drugs and equipment, referral, health
management information system (HMIS), surveillance of major communicable diseases, health care waste
3



management, and equipment management system.
Management, Planning and Coordination: The project would strengthen the existing Directorate of Health
Services (DHS)/Public Health Department (PHD) structures by providing greater autonomy in essential
functions such as implementation of civil works programs, drug and equipment procurement and
management, workforce issues and financial management. In addition, the administrative structure at the
divisional and district levels would be strengthened in the above mentioned areas, and also with regard to
collaboration with NGOs and the management of funds collected through user charges.
Technical and Quality Issues: The quality of services provided presently suffers from unstreamlinied and
inadequate service norms and lack of a systematic approach to quality assurance. A detailed mapping
exercise has been undertaken to identify the types of services to be provided at different facilities, clinical
and service norms have been streamlined, and a plan for a coherent system of service delivery from the
community hospital to the district hospital, including the introduction of quality assuranice  has been
developed.
Access and Coverage of Basic Health Care Services: The clinical effectiveness and outreach funlctions of
selected Community Health Centers (CHCs) would be enihanced. In tribal areas, the focus of the project
would be to enhance access to health care and to facilitate health seeking behavior amongst tribals. In
addition to enhancing the availability of trained staff, equipment and materials at facilities in tribal areas,
the government proposes to strengthen the linkages between the health care system and the Integrated
Tribal Development program to reduce the "mental distance" between the tribals and government health
functionaries. The government proposes as well to strengthen the referral linkages between primary and
secondary facilities in tribal areas in order to ensure priority treatment for tribal patients.
Private and NGO Sectors: The government is committed to actively engaging the private sector in healti
care delivery where possible, especially with regard to contracting out support services. NGOs are active
in the state, and the project would seek their participation in project activities in areas where they have a
comparative advantage at the community level.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 4 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Scope: The proposed project would be an investment operation providing International Development
Association (IDA) financing of US$134.0 million equivalent for a 5 1/2 year period. The policy issues to
be addressed under the project would help prepare the state to better address priority issues in the primary
and secondary levels of the health system in the medium- to long-term. The project would be an important
step in the development of a coherenit, effective and sustainable health system and would strengthen the
organizational and institutional structure of preventive and curative aspects of health care. The project
would help deliver a package of health services, based on revised service norms and consistent with needs
in the community. Project investments would include:
4



Component                          Category           Cost Incl.     % of Total
Contingencies
(US$M)     _______
Management Development and Institutional      Civil works, goods,        14.52            9
Strengthening by: (a) improving the institutional    consultants and
framework for policy development;            services, incremental
(b) strengthening the management and          salaries, operations and
implementation capacity at the state, divisional,  maintenance costs.
district and facility levels; and (c) developing
surveillance capacity for major communicable
diseases and strengthening HMIS.
Improving Service Quality and Effectiveness at 25  Civil works, goods,  117.77           74
District Hospitals, 23 100-bedded and 53 50-  consultants and
bedded Sub-Divisional Hospitals by:           services, incremental
(a) renovating/extending district hospitals and  salaries, operations and
upgrading selected CHCs to sub-divisional     maintenance costs.
hospitals and constructing training centers at 4
remaining district hospitals; and (b) upgrading
effectiveness of clinical, managerial and support
services at all district and sub-divisional hospitals.
Improving Access and Innovative Schemes by: (a)  Civil works, goods,     25.86           17
renovating/extending and upgrading clinical   consultants and
effectiveness at 35 CHCs and enhancing their  services, incremental
outreach functions; (b) improving the referral  salaries, operations and
mechanisms with the primary and tertiary levels    maintenance costs.
and with private health care; (c) promoting health
services in tribal areas and for disadvantaged
groups; and (d) developing a superspeciality
hospital as an innovative scheme for closer
cooperation between the public and private sectors
through the adoption of modern management
practices.
Retroactive Financing. Retroactive financing, effective after March 31, 1998, would be provided for
expenditures which follow the standard features of eligibility. Thlis would include eligible project related
expenditures for activities accepted as consistent with appraised standards, procured in accordance with
standard Bank guidelines and clearly accounted and subject to audit. The government identified thle
following items for which they would claim retroactive financing amounting to about US$1.36 million
equivalent (1% of the proposed Credit): preparation activities including facilities and equipment surveys,
preparation of procurement documents and model plans, studies, information technology equipment,
vehicles and related operational expenditures.
2. Key policies and institutional strengthening supported by thte project:
The Govermnent of Maharashtra has furnished a Letter of Health Sector Development Policy (Annex 3)
that provides the basis for policy development in the health sector, the important points of which are linked
to the Remedies section of the Development Credit Agreement. The policy issues include: (i) increasing
financing and improving resource allocation for the health sector; (ii) strengthening capacity for
management, planning and coordination; (iii) enhancing the role of the private and voluntary sectors; (iv)
5



operationalizing a user charge policy; (v) providing incentives for the workforce and resolving the skill-
mix imbalance; and (vi) redressing regional and other imbalances.
3. Benefits and target population:
A major benefit of the proposed project will be to help establish an effective and sustainable health system
in Maharashtra, indirectly benefiting the entire state's population. First, the broader sectoral policy issues
under the proposed project would increase effectiveness by improving the environimienlt in whicil the public
health sector operates. Second, there would be substantial cost savings in the healthi sector througih the
implementation of streamlined service norms and rationalization of service provision at different levels of
the health system.  Technical and quality improvements, including in operations and mainitenianice
functions, at the facility level will enhance the effectiveness of services. Encouraging patients to seek
timely care would result in higher cure rates at lower costs. Third, analvsis has showin that healthi care
services carried out at lower level facilities, such as at first referral facilities rather thani at a tertiary
hospitals could result in savings of between 25-40%. Fourthi, those currently utilizing existing services
would benefit from better quality of care. In addition, there would be other qualitative benefits whicih
would have a significant impact oni the health system: the strengthiening of first referral facilities and CHCs
would lend vital support and credibility to the primary healtil care system  In rural areas; and the
externalities associated with reducinIg public healthi hazards througIl improvemenits in healtil care waste
management and in the surveillance system for major communicable diseases would have substanitial noni-
quantifiable benefits. These systemic quality improvements would directly benefit approximately 4.5
million out-patients and 0.3 million in-patients annually who are currently using healthi care services. In
addition, the proposed project is expected to expand services to an estimated 4 million incremilenital out-
patients and an estimated 0.28 million incremental in-patients annually. As in the other states, the majority
of people using the services to be provided under the project would belong to the poorest 40% of the
population.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements (Annex 2):
The project will be managed and implemenited by a Project Managemenit Cell (PMC) located in the state's
Public Health Department (PHD). The project management structure incorporates the following key
features: a Project Governing Board (PGB) would provide overall direction throughi the development of
broad policy parameters, approve the annual budget and undertake periodic review of project
implementationl;  and a Project Steering Committee (PSC) with primary responsibility for project
management and implementation. The PSC would make decisions related to project implementation and
work with an existing Empowered Committee for all externally-aided projects in healthi to ensure that
finanlcial approvals are obtained in a timely manner; and the PMC would undertake day-to-day project
implementation. Implementationi at the divisional and district level would be facilitated by the District
Management Committee and the Hospital Visiting Committee.  In addition, new arrangements and
additional resources at these levels would ensure that streamlined decision making occurs in relation to
civil works, procurement, finance and the collection of user charges. A Strategic Planning Cell, reportiig
throughi the Project Manager to the Secretary, PHD, would undertake analytical work to support decisions
about system-wide changes in the healthi sector.
Finanlcial Management and Auditing Arrangements (Annex 7): To address the current weak financial
management reporting system which focuses on book-keeping and expenditure control noted earlier, the
project will develop a costing and management accounting system to assist sound managerial decision
making. Initially, because of the need to develop institutional capacity, the project will use existiig
disbursement mechanisms until it achieves the Loan Administration and Change Initiative (LACI)
compliance capability. Understanding was reached with GOM that it would develop and implement a
financial management system  not later than December 31, 1999.   After the development and
6



implementation of the financial management system, GOM would take the necessary steps to enable
conversion of disbursements to the new Project Management Report (PMR) based disbursements as soon
as possible. The PMC will design, develop and maintain a computerized Project Financial Management
System (PFMS) according to the following guidelines: (a) creation by the PHD of a separate budget head
with appropriate sub-heads in the Annual Budget documents of the Department to capture all project
related expenditures; and (b) development and implementation by the PMC of a computerized PFMS
capable of providing timely and reliable information to project management staff to monitor the progress of
the project towards agreed objectives. The accounting system would reflect component-wise and category-
wise expenditures, produce financial reports that show actual versus budgeted expenditures for the current
period and to date and provide costinlg information. It would capture information regarding the method of
procurement so that the limits of procurement laid down in the Procuremlenlt ScheduLle in the Project
Agreement are properly monitored; and (c) the PFMS would map the financial data with physical data for
measuring the performance of the project. It will facilitate disseminlation of data oni category-wise and
component-wise expenditures on the project, and provide adequate informationi for the compilation and
rendition of various financial reports. The PMC would prepare and furniislh to the Bank a project finanlcial
report on a quarterly basis. The PMC would ensure correct and proper maintenanice of project accouL1ts,
making use of the PFMS, have the accounts audited by the appropriate auditinlg agency, and render audit
certificates containlilng the auditors' opilioni on the anniual finanicial statement of the project as well as on
the expenditures claimed on Statemenits of Expenditures on due date.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives consitleredl anl reasonsfor rejection:
Thie major alternatives to the project would be to:
(a) target interventions in selected districts in several states rather than addressing statewide healtlh care
needs up to the district level in a single state. This Wvould miss the opportunity to address key state-wide
policy issues suchi as increasing finanlcinig and improvilg resource allocation in the health sector, allocatilg
adequate resources for drugs, essential supplies and operations and mainteinance, and institutionial
strengthieninlg suchi as rationalized service norms, referral mechanism, healtlh care waste management
system, equipmenit management system, HMIS and surveillance of major communicable diseases,
procurement and financial management arrangements. By introducing less focused and more piecemeal
intervelitionls withinii the state, this alternative would not address the health needs in a coherent and effective
manniier. Experience in the five states where State Health Systems Development projects are currently
being implemenited indicates that the broad-based approach is the appropriate mechanism  to address
systemic healthl sector issues.
(b) target interventionis at the primary level only. A number of other disease control and family welfare
projects supported by IDA are already targeting investments at the primary level and addressing some of
the critical needs related to staffing, drugs and medicine and infrastructure. Moreover, the epidemiological
profile/burden of disease indicates that a sustainable health system will need to combine elements of public
health and basic clinical services in order to provide adequate and necessary health care services.
Investments at the primary level alone will not be effective in providing these basic health services without
the vital support at the first referral level, which confers credibility to the public health system. This is
especially true for critical programs such as safe motherhood and child survival (Investing in Health,
World Development Report, 1993).
(c) build up the primary health care network to deliver services provided at the first referral level.
Significant expansion of primary health center (PHC) network to provide first referral services is not
7



feasible due to: (i) low absorptive capacity at that level; (ii) difficulty in stationing qualified staff at the
PHC level; (iii) inability of the PHC level to adequately deal with critical conditions suchi as obstetric
emergency, which is key to reducing maternal deaths; (iv) unavailability of sizable investment resources
that would be needed to significantly expand infrastructure; and (v) unavailability of a larger operating
budget at the PHC level at a time when the recurrent budget for staff salaries, medicine and drugs is being
cut back (India: Policy and Finance Strategies, May 1995). In addition, analysis undertakenl in recent
sector work shows that unit cost for bed day, outpatient contact and level I tests such as blood picture and
urine exams are comparable at the PHC and first referral hospital level, and in some cases even lower at the
first referral level (India: New Directions in Health Sector Development, February 1997).
(d) extend selective interventions to the tertiary level as well.  Treating communicable disease and
addressing routine medical services at the tertiary hospitals will overload the tertiary hospitals and
undermine their role in providing superspecialty services. Moreover, recent sector work and other related
studies show that for comparable conditions, treatment and care at the first referral level on average cost
about two-thirds of that at the tertiary level facilities (India: New Directions in Health Sector Development.
February 1997). Tertiary hospitals cater mainly to specialized services, many of whiclh could be provided
more efficiently by the private sector. The inniovative scheme at a superspeciality facility included in this
project to provide secondary and tertiary services through the adoption of modern managemenit practices is
viewed as a pilot, based on which some important lessons can be learned forcorporatizing public tertiary
hospitals.
(e) leave the provision of first referral services and basic healtlh services to the private sector. There are
several rationale for undertaking this operation throughi the public sector: (i) both sector work and
beneficiary assessment studies in several states in India indicate that more than 60% of the beneficiaries
belong to the poorest sections of society and much of the remaining 40% are marginally above the poverty
line. As suclh, they are unable to afford fees for private services, which are two to three times higher and
borne almost entirely from  out-of-pocket sources; (ii) the private sector provides mainly individual,
curative care, but due to market failure it does not provide the most appropriate services to those in greatest
need. In addition, public healtlh fuLictions need to be backstopped througlh the public system. The delivery
of a package of ptiblic health measures and essential interventions is an important priority for governmenit
finanicinig.  Moreover, the coordinationi of project activities with national healtlh programs would not
materialize. In the absence of experience and information, it is not politically feasible to attempt a radical
restructuring of government and private service provision. However, the project will initiate experiments in
private contracting of services.
(t) maintain the status quo. Retaining the current program would mean that there would be no institutional
strengtlhening and policy development in the health sector; service norms will continue to remain
unstreamlinied; patients would continue to be treated at higher level facilities at higher unit costs; and
technical quality of the public program will remain at the existing low level. Yet the demand on the
existing system is ever increasing, especially from the poorer sections of society, and is unable to be
satisfied.
8



2. Major related projectsfinanced by thie Bank and/or otiter development agencies:
Sector issue                     Project                  Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
IDA-financed             National AIDS Control                       S                S
National Leprosy Elimination                S               S
Cataract Blindness Control                  S               S
Andhra Pradesh First Referral Health        S               S
System
State Health Systems Development 11         S               S
Orissa Health Systems Development           S               S
Malaria Control                             S               S
Reproductive and Child Health I            S                S
Tuberculosis Control                       U                S
11/1)() Ratings: I IS (I lighly Satista:ctory ). S (Satisfactorv). l  (U n nsatisfactorv). Ill  (II lighl i Unsatisfactorv)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in tlhe project design:
The design of this project takes into accouLit key lessons from interniationial experience, other social sector
projects in India, and specifically the three State Health  Systems Developmenit Projects unider
implementationi in five states. The key lessons from  international experience are: a broad sectoral
approach within a supportive policy environiment produces significant benefits and positive healtil
outcomes; a limited package of public healthi measures and essential clinical intervenitions is a top priority
for goverinmenit finanice (WDR, 1993). On the public healthi side, the list includes immunizationi, school
healthi programs, family planiniiig, healthi,  uItritioni, programs to reduce tobacco, alcohol and drug
consumption, and AIDS preventioni with a strong STD componenit. On the essential clinical services, the
list includes prenatal and delivery care, family plaininilg services, managemenit of the sick child, treatment
of TB, case management of STDs, and limited care. This project. in recognizing the specific administrative
and socio-techliical issues, and epidemiological profile in Maharashtra, would provide a number of the
services listed above. Among the most important lessons from experience with other social sector
projects in India are: (i) the need to ensure timely and adequate flow of funds to the project entity; (ii) the
need for advanced preparation of hardware and software aspects of the project, including detailed
implelimenitationi plans prior to  Board  approval, especially  because  of the  five-and-a-lialf year
implemilenitationi durationi; (iii) the need to speed up implemenitation and strengthen supervision by
strengthening the implementationl capacity of the line agency to resolve problems in procurement and
disbursement early in the project cycle; and (iv) the need to ensure maintenance of buildings and
equipment throuigih provision of adequate resources for O&M, increasing capacity for maintenance, and
throughi provision of training. Lessons from the three State Health Systems Development projects are:
(i) the importance of maintaining continuity in project management and the key project actors; (ii) the
importance of empowering the Project Management Cell and the F'roject Manager appropriately to ensure
timely and adequate flow of funds, especially when the project is implemented by a government line
department: (iii) the importance of strengthening management aspects by providing greater autonomy with
regard to management and supervision, adequate staffing of key project management personnel and
strengthiening management procedures; and (iv) the importance of paying attention to the quality aspects of
the project throtigih the development of staffing and technical norms, referral mechanism, clinical and
management training programs, incenitives for medical personnel and addressing the issue of skill-mix, and
performance monitoring indicators during preparation. Improvement in HMIS is an important first step to
policy and institutional strengthening and the information collected through M&E should be routinely used
for management decision-making -- the Andhra Pradesh (AP) project provides an excellent model. A
9



number of demand side factors are worth noting. The availability of drugs and medical personnel in
Karnataka and AP, along with the physical upgradation of facilities, have increased the credibility of the
health system. Improved targeting, facilitated through beneficiary assessments, are already having a
positive impact on health indicators -- examples are noted in the increased access to basic health services
in tribal areas in AP and the yellow card scheme in Karnataka. Contracting-out of non-clinical services in
Karntaka and AP are reducing salary costs while improving the quality of such services. The experience
with cost recovery in Punjab and Karnataka shows that the retention of funds at the facility level is
resulting in substantial improvement in O&M functions.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Maharashtra has expressed a strong commitment at the higlhest levels to undertake a program of healtlh
sector development to support the investment program  under the project.  A letter of Health Sector
Development Policy has been provided. Maharashtra has participated in several workslhops organized
jointly by the Union MOHFW and the World Bank on broad-ranging health sector development issues. A
detailed Project Implementation Plan (PIP) has been prepared by Maharashtra with the widespread
participation of beneficiaries, government agencies, NGOs and research institutions.
Maharashtra was selected for this project on the basis of several other criteria.  These included:
commitment of the state government at all levels to undertaking a project of this type; suitability of health
systems strengthening in relation to area/population size; sizable tribal population afflicted by poverty; and
advanced status of project preparation. In addition, Maharaslitra's performance in the implementationi of
donor-assisted social sector projects has been satisfactory, althoughl those projects have been smaller in
scope thani the proposed project.
5. Value adided of IDA support in this project:
IDA is best suited to provide assistance to an investment operation of this magnitude, where pragmatic
investments would be complemented by key health sector policy initiatives. The policy and institutional
strengtlhening areas of the project are where the value-added of IDA support lies. IDA's policy dialogue
with GOI over the past five years has made it possible to engage the government in a coherent, systemic,
broad-based and effective approach to develop the healtlh sector at the state level. IDA's support would
strengtheni Maharaslitra's capacity to implement priority health programs and provide basic health care in
rural areas on a scale that is not possible for either the state government or other donor agencies to
uLidertake. Also, the project would consolidate the investments made by a number of other IDA supported
projects in the healtlh, population and nutrition sectors, and provide a critical link to these investments.
Finally, the project would strengthen IDA's strategy of poverty reduction in India through its focus on1
unlderprivileged people, especially women and SC/STs.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 9)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 5&6): A number of economic analyses have been undertaken for this
operation. Annex 5 reviews the fiscal situation in Maharashtra, focusing on expenditures on health and
family welfare services. Annex 6 reviews cost recovery, user charges and cost-effectiveness. Other
economic analyses addressed include: hiow the project relates to the CAS (Section B); analysis of project
alternatives (Section D); and project benefits and beneficiaries (Section E). The background data for much
of the analysis is presented in several documents, including India: Policy and Finance Strategies, May 1995
and in India: New Directions in Health Sector Development, February 1997. First, the section on benefits
and target populations describes the major benefits, including non-quantifiable benefits, that are
attributable to this project. The Social Assessment indicates that a majority of project beneficiaries belong
to the lowest income groups, an important argument for public sector intervention and poverty alleviation.
10



Second, some of the project alternatives considered have been quantified in previous sector work
mentioned above for all India, and has been applied to Maharashtra. Third, the Maharashtra Burden of
Disease Study, which followed the extensive work undertaken for thie Andhra Pradeshi Burden of Disease
and Cost-Effectiveness Study, provides detailed information on the prevalence of different
diseases/conditions in Maharashtra, based on which an analysis has been undertaken of the service-mix
that should be provided at different levels of health care. Finally, the analysis on cost recovery shows that
the level of user charges is currently low, and alternative scenarios have been developed estimatiig
possible revenue that could be collected at the facilities.  Estimates show that at project completion,
revenues from user charges might provide about Rs. 95 million annually towards non-salary recurrent
costs.
Fiscal Impact: An analysis of public expenditure on healthi is provided in Aniex 5. It reviews the fiscal
situation in Maharashtra, analyzing past trends in selected aspects of public finance., expenditures on healthi
and family welfare, the burden of incremental recurrenit costs of the project and the conditions of finanlcial
sustainability. Incremental and anilual recurrent costs incilidinig contingencies at project completion are
expected to be about Rs. 328 million. This compares to currenit allocations for healthi and family welfare of
about Rs. 10,261 million. Assuming continuationi of past trends in overall expenditures, allocations would
amount to Rs. 18,570 million in the year following the end of the project. lncremiental recurrent costs of
the project would amount to 10% of total revenue expenditures of PHD. The incremenital recurrent costs of
the project imply an increased share for health of total governmiienit expenditures of about 1.3 percentage
points. The Maharashitra governmenit would meet the incremenital recurrent cost needs by: (i) enihanlcinlg
contribution to the health budget; (ii) reallocating incremilenital resources from the tertiary to the secondary
and primary levels of health care; and (iii) establishing cost recovery mechanisms where revenues obtained
would supplement non-salary recurrenlt expenditures.
2. Technical: The project would link the different tiers of the healthi delivery system throughi a referral
mechaniismiln i whicih the norms of service have been clearly defined. To facilitate this process, a detailed
mapping exercise has been undertakeni to identify the types of services to be provided at different facilities
taking into account the epidemiological profile, utilization rates, population-size based criteria, and districts
with higih infant and maternal mortality rates. Norms for clinical and support services at the followiig
facilities have been developed: 25 district hospitals with over 200 beds and 14 clinical specialties; 23 new
sub-divisional hospitals (SDH) with 100 beds and 9 clilical specialties; 53 new SDHs with 50 beds and 7
clinical specialties; and 35 CHCs receiving equipment and material inputs to improve services in 6 clinical
areas. Based on the norms of service developed: (i) the clinical effectiveness of selected CHCs would be
upgraded, and their outreach functionls enhanced; (ii) selected CHCs would be upgraded to SDHs which
would provide additional referral support to the primary care system; (iii) services to be provided at
community, sub-divisional and district hospitals have been defined; (iv) norms have been elaborated for
staffing patterns, diagnostic facilities, space requirements and medical equipment at each type of facility;
(v) a plan for disaster preparedness in earthquake prone districts has been developed; and (vi) functions of
the blood bank and transfusion facilities have been defined, including space and equipment norms. This
will help to establish a system of service delivery linking the community health centers to the district
hospital, with the district hospital acting as the nodal point under which the system of secondary and
primary care will provide services.
3. Institutional: Specific measures are planned at the state, divisional and district levels to strengthen
institutional capacity, based on lessons learned from the implementation of similar projects and institutional
risks associated with project implementation in Maharashtra. Specific institutional strengthening measures
include: (i) empowering a Steering Committee to authorize the PMC in day-to-day project implementation
matters; (ii) setting-up a mechanism to ensure adequate and timely flow of fundis and empowering the
11



Project Manager to incur project-related expenditures; (iii) empowering the PHD in the implementation of
the civil works program and equipment management system; (iv) setting-up a new drug procuremenlt
arrangement which adopts, with minor exceptions, an open tender system in whicih purchiase orders are
centralized at the state level; (v) setting-up a computer-based financial management system for use and
operation by the PMC which will be capable of providing timely and reliable information to the PMC to
facilitate effective monitoring of the project's progress; and (vi) setting-up a monitoring and evaluation
system to provide timely feedback for project managemenit.
4. Social: The social analysis for the project is based on several backgrounid pieces: (i) a detailedsituationl
analysis, describing the socio-econotilic, demographic, epidemiological and healthi sector situationi in the
state. This indicates that the populationi is higilly dispersed, withi a populationi density ranginig from 16,434
persons per square km. in Mumbai to 55 persons per square kill. in tribal districts. The sex ratio in the state
has declined to 934 females per 1000 males in 1991, and shows a wide variation between districts. There
are also wide district-wise variations in the availability of services and in key indicators Suchi as the infanlt
mortality rate, maternial mortality rate and crude birth rate.  While non-comimunicable diseases and
injuries/traulima are on the rise in the state, it continues to bear a higih burdeni of commullicable diseases.
incitidinig HIV/AIDS.  The state is also earthquake prone, and has recently experienced devastatiig
earthquakes in Latur and Osmanabad districts. The project will address these issues by (a) targeting the
poor and uliderserved to increase their access to healthi services free of cost; (b) strengthieninig the referral
system from the community to the community hospital level where timely access to emergency care is
provided; (c) implementinig a disaster preparedness plan; and (d) implementing a tribal strategy to address
the specific healthi needs of tribal populations (see below); (ii) the Maharashtra Burden of Disease study,
based on ICD9 categorization, indicates a highier thani average proportion of communicable diseases
compared to the all-India average.  The project will address this issue by strengtheninig CHCs and
comimiuinity hospitals to provide better access to essential and emergenlcy obstetrics care at the community
level and by addressing those conditionls which affect childlhood mortality; (iii) an analysis of hospital
activity indicators whicil shows that Government healtil institutions are the predominant providers of healthi
care in the state, particularly in rural and tribal areas. Levels of hospital activity and utilization were found
to be directly impacted by the lack of adequate staff, absence of referral link and limited accessibility.
Strenigtheninlg the capacity of the public health system at the district level will address the need to deliver
enihaniced services at that level; (iv) an oln-goling benleficiary assessment stud  which idenltifies the healtil
care needs of tribal and uliderserved communities and constraints in provision of these needs. The project
will address these needs by implemenitinig a strategy aimed at increasing access to health care for tribal and
underserved populationis; and (v) no land acquisition and resettlement issues are expected to arise because
upgradation of facilities will take place in existing premises. If, however, during project implementation
unexpected land acquisition, chanige in land use or resettlement arises, they will take place after IDA
approves the manner of implementation.
Tribal Strategy: About 9% of the state's population is tribal. Studies indicate that the utilization of
secondary and primary healthi services in tribal areas is low due to problems with physical, economic and
social access of the tribals to healthi services. The project's tribal strategy (see Annex 2) would be aimed at
increasing the demand for primary and secondary health services in tribal areas by improving the quality of
services and providing effective IEC to better inform tribal populations of the benefits of using government
healtil services. In addition, the project would: (a) strengthen linkages between primary and secondary
health care services; (b) strengtheni linkages between the PHD and the Integrated Tribal Development
Agency; (c) increase access to health care services through the provision of mobile health clinics and
annual health camps; (d) address the high infant and child mortality among tribals by providing enhanced
training to staff in tribal PHCs and CHCs in the management of the critically ill child; and (e) reduce the
cost of utilizing these services. A baseline survey is at an advanced stage and periodic surveys would be
12



conducted to facilitate the on-going monitoring and evaluation of the strategy, and an appropriate action
plan would be developed to address the issues identified by the monitoring and evaluation system.
5. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category: B
It is estimated in several hospitals in India that 85-90% of hospital wastes are non-hazardous, whicih can be
disposed in a manner similar to municipal waste; 10% of hospital wastes are infectious; and remaininig are
non-infectious but hazardous.  WHO estimates that the generation of hospital wastes in low-income
countries ranges from 0.5 - 3 kg. per bed per day. A stidy by Dr. Kelkar (1996) of 10 hospitals in Mumiibai
indicates that about 1.1 kg of waste is generated per bed per day in a hospital of whiicih about 0.5 kg is
infectious -- a rural hospital produces less than 0.1 kg of infectious waste per bed per day. Based on these
estimates and the current and projected bed occupancy rates in a typical project hospital in Maliarashitra, it
is estimated that the total amount of infectious and hazardouis waste generated is small. While the project
will not contribute to any sizable increase in hospital waste, it will address the issue of the management of
healthi care waste at the facility level, including segregation, storage and final clisposal. Taking into
account recent legislative action taken by GOI and other developments in the NGO sector, the state has
developed a plan for the treatnent of health care waste, distinguishing between actions to be taken within
the hospital premises and actions to be taken with regard to ultimate disposal outside hospital premises.
The environimenital rating for the project is category B.
The government's Environmental Action Plan proposes a three phase approach. Thle first phase (short
term), to be initiated within the first six months of the project, would focus on the immediate reduction in
hazards from health care waste by the introductioni of low cost/no cost measures such as simple segregation
to remove sharps and infected waste from non-hazardous waste, and secure on-site storage to reduce
scavenginig. In addition, a waste management orientation program will be undertalken involving hospital
staff hanidling waste. The second phase (medium term) would incltide (i) scaled up measures, such as
fuller segregation and limited on-site treatment, incltiding needle crushers; (ii) formation of a multi-
disciplinary working group, with a small task force, to implement agreed measures; (iii) survey of waste
generated and cost-effectiveness of treatment technologies; and (iv) design and implementation of training
program. In order to evaluate the available options for properly managing infectious and hazardous waste,
a study will be initiated withiin the first year of project implementation to collect thie necessary additional
informationi.  Based on this, the third phase (long term) would be developed, which would focus oni
completioln of optionis appraisal, development of appropriate management systems, institutions, policies,
implemenitationi of clinical waste maniagement plans (including a feedback on the performance of the waste
management system) and implementationi of the full training program  to ensure sustainability of the
system.
6. Participatory approach
Participatory approach            Preparation           Implementation          Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups    Consult               collaborate             NA
Iintermediary NGOs                Consult               collaborate             NA
Academic institutions             Consult               information             NA
sharing
Local government                  Collaborate           collaborate             NA
Other donors                      Collaborate           collaborate/information   NA
sharing               _
13



F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability: In the past decade, gross fiscal deficit in Maharashtra rose from 5.4% to 10.8%, and the
primary deficit as a share of GSDP has increased steadily since 1993, reaching 5.4% of GSDP in FY96/97.
If recent levels and patterns in the state's revenue and non-interest expenditures continiue, the gross fiscal
deficit is expected to rise from  10.8% of GSDP at present to 13%  by the end of the decade and the primary
deficit to about 10% of GSDP.
The evolution of Maharashtra's debt differs from  that of other states in India. Public debt has declined
from  14%  of SDP in 1993 to 9%  in 1997; this compares well w ith the nationlal average wvhichi stands at
25%  of GDP for 1997. The per capita debt burdeni increased from  Rs. 1,475 to Rs. 2,164 durinig the same
period.  Interest payments on debt remained betwveen 11.5%  and 11.7%  of revenue expenditure during
1993-1997, considerably smaller thanl some of the major states. Efforts to halt the recent trends in the
state's fiscal and primary deficits obviously will be necessary, as the state's finanices in general have
implications for public financing of the health sector.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assunmptions in tliefourthl columnit of Annex 1):
Risk              Risk Rating,                              Risk Minimization Measure
I'he overall t'inancial status  Modest     *   'I'he gov ernment's l.etter ol'  Iealith Sector D)evelopment lPolic% provides
ot'tile state is a risk. 'I'his                 assurances that the slare ot'health sector resources in the overall hudget wvould he
might have implicationis                        maintained at the 1996-97 level during the project period.
for the allocation of'                      *   A specific covenant has been included reqtuiring the governmienit to increase the
suf'ticient f'unds to the                       share of resources for the primary and secondary levels ot'liealth care in the total
health sector.                                  health care resources.
*    l'he ltinancial sustainability ot'the state and the linancial status orthie health sector
wvill be assessed as part of' the mid-term reviewv.
*   A Strategic Planning Cell w%ill provide technical and policy inputs to cnilancing
resource utilization.
Inadequate flowV of funds.   Substantial    *   'I'he government has set up an administrative mechanism to ensure adequatc
budgetary allocations.                          financial management. including flow of funds.
availability of drugs and                   *   'I'he government w%ould undertake to: make adequate budgetary allocations tor
medicinie. and other inputs.                    recurrent expenditures. including drugs and essential supplies at the first ref'erral
level: and implement a user charge policv to supplement budgetary resources.
Government ft:ils to      Modest            *   A user charge policy has been under implementation since 1988 for fee collection
implement cost recovery                         at district hospitals: a workshop held in July 1997 of'senior level ol'ficers yielded a
measures.                                       revised set ot'user charges tor wvhich govcrnment approval is being sought.
D)elays in implementation    Substantial    *   T'he tirst year of'procurement packages are in place.
due to slow procurement                     *   Start-up of construction activities and procurement of equipment is being planned
and recritment of staff't                       wvell in advance and xvill be undertaken by specialized agencies for the first year ol'
the project.
'I'he capacity ot'existing  Modest          *   Measures are being taken to strengthen referral mechanism, HMIS, surveillance.
institutions to undertake                       waste management. procurement, and financial management and audit.
systemic improvements is                    *   Seminars. workshops and informal collaboration are taking place between the five
Vet to be tested in                             states and Maharashtra to facilitate the sharing of lessons of experience.
Maaharashtra.
Delays in putting the     Modest            *   Much of the core Project Management Team is in place.
Project Management Team
in place.
Synchronization of project  Modest          *   A well-defined plan has been spelled out in the PIP and Bank supervision inputs
inputs.                                         will facilitate the government's efforts.
Overall Risk Rating  Modest
Risk Rating - H (High Risk). S (Substantial Risk). M (Modest Risk). N (Negligible or Low Risk)
14



G: Main Loan Conditions
Condlitions of Negotiations:
As Conditions of Negotiations, the following actions have been taken[1:
(a)    Project Implementationi Plan (PIP) has been completed (dated October 12, 1998) and provided to
the Association.  This has been found to be satisfactory in substance, and consistenlt with
recommendations made in the aide-memoire of the IDA Appraisal Mission.
(b)    The project has been cleared by GOM and GOI. and a Letter of Health Sector Developmelit Policy
has been finalized and furinishied to IDA.
(c)    A Governmeit Order (GO) has been issued designating the Healtlh Secretaty of GOM as the
lProject Manager unltil a suitable Project Manager is appointed. The heads of Health Systems,
Commllunlicable Diseases, and Finance and AccoulIts of the Project Managemenit Cell have also
been designated. The GO withi respect to the head of the Engineering Wing, is to be issued by the
Public Works Department by November 30, 1998.
(d)    A GO establishinig the Strategic Planninig Cell and the Project Management Cell has been issued.
An additional GO establishing the Project Governing Board, Steering Committee and District
Managemilenit Committee has also been issued.
(e)    The structure of the Project Goverinig Board, the Empowered  Committee  and  the  Steering
Coomimlittee wilichi has been set up would ensuire adequate and timely flow of funds and prompt
decision-makinig, and would also empower the Project Manager to incur expenditures up to an
agreed liilit under the project.
(f)    A Procurement Schedule/Plani for civil works, goods and senrices for the first two years of the
project has been prepared and cleared with the Association.
(g)    The bidding documents for prior review packages/contracts for use in the first year of the
project have been cleared by the Association.
Otiher Covenants:
At negotiations, the Government of Maharashtra provided assurances that it would:
15



(b)    ensure that: (i) the share of resources for the primary and secondary levels of health care in the
total resources (Plan and Non-plan) allocated to the health sector would be increased each year
until the year 2004; and (ii) allocate adequate resources for drugs, essential supplies and
maintenance of equipment and buildings at first referral hospitals and community healtlh centers in
accordance with norms agreed with IDA;
(c)    adequately staff and resource a Strategic Planning Cell and maintain the Cell durinig
implementationi;
(d)    ensure that the PMC would have the authority to manage essential operational activities i1citiding
civil works constructioni and mainltelnance;
(e)    ensure that an adequate meclhanlism contilues to he in place for the collection of user charges, and
that a mechaniism for retentioni of funids at the point of collection and for the targeting of
beneficiaries below the poverty line would be introduced by June 30, 1999;
(f)    adopt, within six montlhs after hospital upgradationi, staffing and technical normiis at all hospitals
under the project, as agreed withi IDA, to ensure the quality of services;
(g)    complete the recruitment of the Project Managemilenit Cell by June 30, 1999;
(11)    maintain the PGB and PSC durinig project implemenitationv witih composition, powers, functionis and
resources as set forth in the PIP;
(i)    carry out the project in tribal areas in accordance with the strategy outlined in the PIP;
()     develop referral protocols and guidelines by June 30, 1999;
(k)    implement the Environimenital Action Plan in accordance with the objectives, policies, procedures,
tine schedule and other provisions as set out in the PIP;
(I)    review with IDA by April 30 of each year the progress of project implementation over the
preceding twelve monthls and prepare an annual workplan for the following twelve months;
(m)    ensure that no civil works whiclh inay result in the involuntary resettlement of people will be
unldertaken under the project:
(n)    ensure that a feasibility report and implementation plan on the superspecialty hospital are
submitted to IDA by October 31, 1999 and thereafter implement the plan; and
(o)    carry out a mid-term review by June 30, 2002.
16



H. Readiness for Implementation
The Government of Maharashtra has finalized a Project Implementation Plan (October 12, 1998). A
Letter of Health Sector Development Policy has been furnished by the Government (October 17, 1998).
An analysis of public expenditures in the state overall, and for the health sector has been undertaken. A
Social Assessment has been completed, and the findings and recomimendations of the study have been used
to fine-tune project design. A tribal strategy has been developed by the government and found satisfactory.
In addition, the state has completed the following activities: (i) a burden of disease study, which has helped
to further define service norms; (ii) streamlining of services offered at different levels of facilities, and
preparation of equipment and staffing norms on that basis; development of training modules for each
category of staff; development of an agreed set of performance monitoring indicators; finalization of
manpower plan: and preparation of a plan for surveillance for major comrnunicable diseases; (iii)
substantial completion of site and equipment surveys; preparation of a civil works program; finalization of
equipment lists and technical specifications; and finalization of an essential drug list; and (iv) completion
of an Environmental Action Plan, addressing health care waste management issues. The government has
finalized and cleared with IDA a procurement plan/schedule for civil works, goods and services for the first
two years of the project and bidding documients for prior review packages for use in the first year of the
project.
1. Compliance with IDA Policies
This project complies with all applicable IDA policies.
Team Leader:    Tawlhid Nawaz
Sector Manager: Riclhard Skolnik   /27z9 f
Counitry Director: Edwin R. Lim  ,  
17



Annex 1
Page I of 2
Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project
Design Summary
Narrative Summary                             Key Indicators'                            Monitoring and            Critical
Evaluation        Assumptions/Risks
Sector-related CAS Goal:
Enhance access to basic   Systemic. coherent and broad targeted approach to establishing an    Department of I lealth    Continued political
health services for the   effective and sustainable health system.                       Progress Report        commitment and
poor and most vulnerable                                                                                        management
in society.                                                                                                     effectiveness.
Project Development
Objective:                (i) Improved efficiency:
(i) improve efficiency in    *   Increased share of resources for the primary and secondary
the allocation and use of'    levels of health care in the total resources (plan and non-plan)   P'ublic I Iealth  P'olitical commilitimient
health resources through      allocated to the health sector, until Nyear 20)0)4         [)epartment (PIID)     to carry out policy.
policy and institutional  *   Maintain an adequate expenditure for drugs at least at the  budget documents
development                   current estimated level of Rs. 8.800 per bed per year for drugs  I1' ID Annual Report
and ensure that it is also maintained for new beds
*   Implementation of'proposed user charge policy including the
introduction of user charges at Cl IC. SDI I and some revision    PHD Project
of DII diagnostic services and paid wards                 Implementation lPlan
(ii) improve the          (ii) Improved quality, effectiveness and coverage of health
performance of the health     services:                                                                         Delays in
care system through         a. Improved quality:                                         IIMIS. Financial       implementation.
improvemcnts in the       *   Increase in percentage of institutions stafled in accordance  statements of       'I'imelyv tlow of'
quality. effectiveness and    with agreed norms: from 25% at baseline. to 35% at mid-term.  individual hospitals  Iunds. Adequate
coverage of health            and 90% at end of project                                 and Pi ID Annual        budgetary allocation
services.                 *   Increase in laboratory equipment and investigations        Report                 to the health sector.
*   Increase in supply of critical drugs and equipment                                Availability of'drugs.
*   Increase in patient satisfaction (based on client survey for                      medicines, staff'and
total. women and S'l's)                                                          other inputs.
b. Improved effectiveness:
*   Increase in number of admissions to institutions under the
project due to high risk pregnancies by 5 percentage points at
mid-term. and 15 percentage points at end of project
*   Increase in the percentage of institutional deliveries in
L institutions under the project from 16% at baseline, to 20% at
mid-term, and to 30% at end of project
*   Increase in number of major surgeries
*   Increase in treatment and referral of patients with selected
diseases and conditions (ARI. childhood diarrhea. malaria. TB
and pregnancy related conditions)
c. Improved access:
*   Increase total outpatient attendance, and the attendance of
women and STs
*   Increase the proportion in total outpatient attendance of
women and STs. from 30% for women and 10% for STs at
baseline. to 35% and 12% respectively at mid-term, and to
50% and 15% respectively at end of project
*   Increase the proportion of facilities providing the defined
service norms (disaggregated by level of facility)
*   Increase in number of referrals from PHCs to CHCs. area.
subdivisional and district hospitals
'Indicators delineated with * have been agreed upon with the Govemment of Maharashtra as final project indicators.
18



Annex I
Page 2 of 2
Components:
Improve the institutional   *   Increase number of institutions under project utilizing         Project NMonitoring      i'ro ject maiagemeLit
framework for policy             management information systems from 0 at baseline. by 25       Cell                     team in place for
development and                  District Hlospitals at mid-term. and 331 project institutions at                        duiration of project.
strengthening                    end of project                                                 I INM1S data
management and
implementation capacity     *   Number of studies. w-orkshops and seminars conducted            Baseline survevs.
project progress         Svineilron izationi ot'
reports. quarterly       project hipuits: flow
*   iercentage of' inpaltients and outpatients in instituitions under    reports. annual reports   ot' finds. provision of'
Improve service quality          the project recei\ ing diagnostic tests from the baseline. to an                        traininig.
and eff'ectiveness at            additional 5% o\ er baseline at mid-term. and an additional    Aninial plans            de\ elopment of'
district, sub-divisional and     20% at end of project                                                                   normis and
communit) hospitals.        *   Increase number ofnmedical staff'trained (clinical.             Project MIS data         contractual
including drug                   management. lC'. MIS. maintenance. rel'erral. waste                                    arriigemiienlts.
management. training.            management) and number of'training courses held under the      Project 13aseline
Quality Assurance.               project according to plan from ()% at baseline. to 50% at mid-   Surve\
monitoring and evaluation        term, and to I 00%( o at end of project
and management o'           *   Increase number of institutions under project to introduce
hospital waste                   wvaste managemiienit practices based on agreed plan from )0 at                          SupplV o0'quailifiied
baseline, by 30(`) at mid-term, and by 70% at end of'project   .                        personnel
includinIg all )II and SD)l lN ith 100 bcds                                            particulairly in remote
'I'he proportion of civil works grounded e  ould be 7(1of                                 areas.
plan. It)% comIpleted. 1 0% equLipped and 5"O futil operational
at mid-term. and 90'0% completion ot' all aspects of' civil works
at end of'project
*   P'atient turnov er rate
*   Bed occupancy
*   Average lengtih of stay
*   Number of outpatients per inpatient bed da\                                             'Iimely start-up of'
*   Number of outpatients per physician and nilrse                                          training programs
*   Admissions during a casuality period                                                    and of'construction
*   Percentage of post-operative case fatalities                                            activities.
*   P'ercentage ot' inpatients acquiring infection during hospital                          P'rocurement of'
stay                                                                                   drugs. equipment and
*   Percentage off acilities meeting equipment norms at each                                other inputs.
facilit\
*   Percentage of' i:acilities wvithout stockout of selected essential
drugs
*   Percentage of institutions undertaking medical audits
*   Percentage of secondary hospitals passing inspection by panel
of experts
Improve access to basic
healthi services, iienliding    *   Increase in a\vareness ot' services offered at district and sub-
upgradinig community             divisional hospitals among total community. women and STs
health centers. promoting        from 20% among \vomen and 10% among STs at baseline, to
health services lor tribal       30% at mid-terml. and to 60% at end of project
and disadvantaged groups.
IEC and improving the       *   Axvareness among doctors and nurses of functioning of
referral sy stem                 referral system
19



Annex 2
Page I of 7
Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project
Project Description
Project Component I - US$12.40million (9% of total base costs): Management Development and Institutional
Strengthening
I.     Improving the Institutional Framework for Policy Development:  Sectoral capacity for policy
development would be strengthened in the state through the establishment of a Strategic Planning Cell (SPC). to be
headed by a Joint Secretary who would report directly to the Secretary, Public Health Department (PHD).   The
function of the SPC would be to develop and review health policy for Maharashtra by commissioning studies,
workshops and seminars and by directly hiring consultants to facilitate these activities. Key issues to be researched
would include, but not be limited to, monitoring the development of the public and private health sector, reviewing
the suitability of present regulations relating to the quality of private and public care, evaluating the burden of disease
and cost-effectiveness of public health interventions and reviewing medical manpower. In addition, the SPC would
review implementation of the cost recovery mechanism, the targeting of beneficiaries for exemption, and sectoral
resource allocation patterns. Under this sub-component, the project would finance vehicles, equipment including
computers, furniture, local training, studies, fellowships, workshops, consultants, operational expenses and salaries of
incremental staff on a declining basis.
2.     Strengthening Management and Implementation Capacity: Management and implementation capacity
would be strengthened through the establishment of a Project Governing Board, Project Steering Committee, Project
Management Cell, District Management Committees and Hospital Visiting Committees. The project will be managed
and implemented by the state's PHD. and specific administrative responsibilities have been assigned to the state,
zonal and district levels. Project manaement arrangements have taken into account the existing organizational set-up
and implementation capacity at PHD, the health programs currently being implemented by-the PHD and the overall
set-up of public administration in the state, particularly with regard to the nature of decentralized administration in the
state. For effective coordination of all project activities, the government will constitute a Project Governing Board
(PGB) and a Steering Committee. The PGB will provide strategic direction. It will be chaired by the Chief Secretary,
and have as members the Secretaries of Health, Finance, Planning, Public Works, Urban Development; Social
Welfare; Medical Education, Food and Drug Departments; the Project Administrator; the Director Health Services
(DHS); Additional DHS (Project) and Additional DHS (Communicable Diseases). The PGB will develop the broad
policy parameters; approve the annual budget; authorize any major expenditure revisions; and undertake an annual
review of project implementation and monitor overall project progress. The PGB will meet twice a year or as
necessary.
3.     Reporting to the PGB would be the Steering Committee, whose primary responsibility would be to manage
project implementation and undertake project planning. It would be chaired by the Secretary, PHD, and have as
members the Project Manager; the DHS; the state departments of Finance, Planning,  Public Works, Urban
Development, Social Welfare and MEDD; Additional DHS (Project) and Additional DHS (Communicable Diseases).
The Steering Committee will meet at least once in a quarter and more often if necessary.
4.     The PMC would be headed by a Joint Secretary as the Project Manager. The Project Manager will work in
close coordination with the DHS, and under the guidance of the Secretary, PHD, in implementing project activities.
The functions of the PMC would include all aspects of routine project management, monitoring progress, maintaining
flow-of-funds and project account, providing technical guidance and general administration, and preparing progress
reports. The PMC will also be responsible for financial management of the project, including disbursements, flow of
funds, maintenance of accounts of receipts and expenditures. The PMC would consist of 4 units: (i) the Health
Systems Unit; (ii) the Health Surveillance Unit; (iii) the Design and Engineering Unit; and (iv) the Finance and Audit
Unit. The PMC would monitor project implementation, and maintain and regularly update relevant databases to
facilitate implementation.
5.     At the divisional level, a division of the Design and Engineering Wing and the Equipment Maintenance
Wing would be set up to facilitate project implementation and monitoring. At the district level, a District
20



Annex 2
Page 2 of 7
Management Committee (DMC) would be involved in the monitoring and supervision of the various activities to be
carried out under the project. The DHCs would facilitate the collection and distribution of user charges, maintenance
of equipment, waste management, training of technical staff, quality assurance and surveillance of major
communicable diseases. The RMO (outreach) would be designated as the District Project Coordinator, and would be
responsible for the management of the district hospital and the implementation of project-related activities at the
district level. The District Collector would be the Chairman of the DMC, and members would include the CEO, Zilla
Parishad; Deputy Engineer, Public Works; District Health Officer; District Project Coordinator; and Civil Surgeon.
6.      At headquarters in PHD, staff would be enhanced to meet the increased workload and the structure of PHD
would be reoriented to meet the new challenges. Parallel improvements and strengthening of the management and
implementation capacity at the zonal, district and facility level would also be undertaken. These actions would
facilitate systems improvement, wider access and improved data collection and utilization for planning and policy
making, problem solving and monitoring at all levels of management. including the facility level. At the hospital
level where both information collection and management are fairly rudimentary, the project would: (a) enhance the
computerized system through the provision of hardware and software, and consultancy support; (b) establish trained
and equipped information cells at HQ and district levels; (c) train all management staff in appropriate record keeping,
and (d) introduce a revised medical reporting system for in-patients and diagnostic services.
7.      Financial Management and Auditing Arrangements: To address the current weak financial management
reporting system, the project will develop a costing and management accounting system to assist sound mana-ement
decision making (see Annex 7 for details).
8.      Funds Flow Arrangemnents. Budget estimates for project activities prepared by the PMC will be included in
totality in the budget proposals presented to the legislature for approval. The Finance Department will ensure that
funds are released in a timely manner. In addition, it is understood that (301 will release 25% of the annual
expenditures as estimated by the PMC as advance ACA to GOM at the beginning of each fiscal year. Thereafter, GOI
will release funds to GOM, within a month from the date of withdrawal of funds from the Special Account by the
Controller of Aids Accounts and Audit.
9.      Developing Surveillance Capacity for Major Communicable Diseases:  A rudimentary surveillance
system is already in place in the state at the primary level. This system needs to be strengthened, and extended to the
secondary level, in order to effectively reduce morbidity and mortality due to communicable diseases.  The
surveillance system proposed under the project would include information collected from Gram Panchayats, health
workers, sentinel sites, private medical practitioners, government hospitals, and voluntary agencies. The government
proposes to establish standardized case definitions for different conditions as well as a reporting system from the
Gram Pancliayat to the state level. Currently, the state is monitoring cholera. GE, dysentery, hepatitis, fever, and
encephalitis. The project would strengthen the existing system by: (i) improving data collection from various
facilities; (ii) promoting coordination between agencies currently collecting data on specific diseases; (iii)
strengthening the capacity to analyze and interpret data at the district and state levels; (iv) strengthening the capacity
to promptly respond to disease outbreaks at the district level; and (v) monitoring the district level reporting and
response from the zonal and state levels. The system would cover the identification of cases; indexing of cases or
isolation of cases and treatment; and tracing of contacts for monitoring and evaluation.  Explicit criteria for
monitoring these communicable diseases would be set to avoid any ambiguity in reporting by different agencies.
10.    The government proposes to establish an Epidemiological Cell headed by an Additional Director,
Surveillance at Headquarters. This unit will become the coordinating body for all surveillance activities in the state.
29 district surveillance units will also be set up to undertake and coordinate surveillance activities at that level. In
addition, the government proposes to strengthen the collection, compilation and reporting of birth and death statistics.
The following additional inputs are proposed: training of medical staff and disitrict level officers, a regular schedule
of meetings between medical officers, and provision of contingent grants for essential supplies.  Finally, the
government proposes to strengthen capacity for data collection at the district level in order to facilitate decentralized
participatory planning through the promotion of community participation in the collection of data.
21



Annex 2
Page 3 of 7
Under this sub-component, the project would finance professional services, vehicles, furniture, other equipment and
supplies, local training, operational expenses and salaries of incremental staff on a declining basis, and vehicle,
furniture and equipment maintenance.
II.     Health Management Information System  (HMIS): A well-functioning HMIS would be established to
improve program  performance and ensure effective monitoring, regular information flows and timely feedback
mechanisms by bringing together information collected under different health programs. The focus of the proposed
HMIS program  would be: accurate identification of community needs: empowering of hospital managemlienit in
expansion or deletion of services based on available data, strengthening the referral system; streamlining record
keeping; enhancing capacity and quality of data analysis; establishing a system of rapid feedback; and strengthening
operational research.  The HMIS would gather data on six broad areas: civil works, equipment, drugs, major
communicable diseases, hospital activitv and financial management. Currently, a monthly report is collected by the
Directorate from district hospitals, women's hospitals and general hospitals. The activities of rural hospitals are not
monitored at the state level. The project would: (i) improve the HMIS by developing standard formats for hospital
record-keeping, improving storage facilities for medical records, and providing training for medical records
personnel; (ii) strengthen district level capacity for data analysis by providing training to district HMIS staff in data
analysis and computer use, and providing appropriate equipment and supplies; and (iii) train state level personiel in
data analysis.
Project Component 2 - US$99.8 million (74% of total base costs): Improving Service Quality and Effectiveness at
District and Sub-divisional Hospitals
12.    Upgrading Sub-divisional and District Hospitals: 23 SDHs with 100 beds, 53 SDHs with 50 beds, and 25
district hospitals will be renovated/extended under the project. The selection of the facilities to be upgraded under the
project was made on the basis of a comprehensive scoring system which took account of strategic location including
access by disadvantaged groups, current utilization, the interftace with facilities providing emergency obstetric care,
and the availability of services in the private sector. There would not be any new hospitals built under the project,
and the state government has confirmied that all premises slated for renovation/extension have existing land. Details
of the construction program to be undertaken, based on a survey of all existing facilities, are provided in the PIP.
2,670 new beds will be added to the existing bed strength of 16,007 beds. The proposed increase in bed strength is
justified on the basis of: (i) epidemiological data; (ii) indicators of existing and proposed hospital activity, such as bed
occupancy rate, tirnover rate, and out-patient/in-patient ratio, and (iii) Planning Commission norms for beds at the
first referral level. The proposed increase in bed strength under the project is less than what is suggested by these
criteria. Under this sub-component the project would finance civil works, professional services, furniture, equipment,
vehicles, building, vehicle and equipment maintenance and operational expenses.
13.     Upgrading the Effectiveness of Clinical, Management and Support Services at District and Sub-
divisional Hospitals: Streamlined normis and standards for clinical and support services developed during project
preparation would be applied at the first referral hospitals. Staffing norms conforming to services that will be
provided at each type of facility would be adopted, a system for monitoring improvements in the quality of clinical
care would be established through the adoption of a quality assurance program and the capacity of support services
would be expanded. Staff skills in clinical and technical areas would be enhanced through the provision of training to
improve the quality and range of services. Management training for professional cadres and on-going in-service
training for clinical and technical cadres would also be strengthened. This would facilitate the implementation of the
quality improvement strategy of the project. Within six months of upgrading each facility, staffing and technical
norms would be adopted to ensure improved quality of services. Under this sub-component the project would finance
civil works, professional services, furniture, medical and other equipment, medical laboratory and other supplies,
medicines, vehicles, local training, studies, fellowships, equipment, vehicle and building maintenance, operational
expenses and salaries of additional staff on a declining basis.
14.    Drug Management: The existing system for the procurement and distribution of drugs has several problems.
Delays are common in the finalization of lists and rate contracts and in releasing funds to the districts; as
22



Annex 2
Page 4 of 7
a result, there are delays in payments to suppliers and substantial gaps between need and supply. It is proposed
that drug procurement procedures are streamlined and a need-based system be adopted. Storage space would be
provided at the district level to facilitate decentralized drug management, and a computerized system  linking the
central store with the district stores would be set up to facilitate rational prociurement of drugs. Quality testing of each
batch of drugs would be undertaken at designated testing laboratories, and payments made after quality assurance.
An essential drug list has been prepared, and a drug list for each type of faclity has also been developed. These will
be updated each year.
15.    Training: The training program proposed under the project can be broadly categorized into: (i) hospital
management training, aimed at improving the managerial competency of heilth personnel in secondary institutions in
areas such as planning, organization, coordination and  program  implementation; (ii) clinical training, aimed at
providing specialized and quality health care at secondary hospitals through the trainingg of doctors, nurses and
paramedical personnel; and (iii) clinical trainers' training, to orient clinical trainers in participatory and interactive
training approaches, task analysis, standardization of operative steps, and the creation of positive training climates. A
Training Needs Assessment has been completed and a detailed training plan for the entire project period is presented
in the PIP. There are currently 6 Health and Family Welfare Training Centers in the state, and 29 District Training
Teams which impart training to MPWs, health supervisors and medical officers. For clinical training, staff are
deputed to district hospitals, where the facilities are inadequate to provide training of an acceptable quality. It is
therefore proposed that Hospital Training Teams will be established under the project at each district hospital, and
would be provided with a building, necessary staff, equipment and materials. Distance learning packages will also be
developed to increase access to training programs. The output of training activities will be monitored through the
HMIS.
16.     Quality Assurance (QA): The QA program will cover issues such as clinical quality, user satisfaction, gender
needs and management of resources. As a first step, the system of having retired Civil Surgeons visiting district
hospitals to evaluate quality of care will be revived. In addition, the state would formulate a working group to: assess
benchmark data on the quality of clinical care at secondary hospitals; identify suitable indicators for assessment of
quality of care; set acceptable standards; test methods of data collection on a pilot basis; conduct and review pilots;
and establish standard procedures, guidelines, registers and task assignments at various levels. The working group
would include the Joint Secretary, Additional DHS, Joint Director Health Services, 2 Regional Directors Health
Services, I Nursing Officer, representatives of the Equipment Maintenance C'ell and Public Works Department, Dean
of a government medical college, 2 representatives from a corporate hospital, 4 Civil Surgeons and retired Civil
Surgeons and health experts. The working group would develop and implement quality assurance guidelines and
procedures in the pilot sites by establishing quality improvement groups. AppDropriate training programs for all levels
of staff in quality assurance would be developed prior to launching the program state-wide. The SPC would be
responsible overall for monitoring the quality assurance program.
17.     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E): M&E strategies have been planned keeping in mind the development
objectives of the project, the duration and the mode of implementation. Appropriate formats have been designed, and
the HMIS will be used to collect and update the necessary information. The PMC will be primarily responsible for
monitoring and evaluation. The focus will be on civil works, equipment, maintenance, manpower, QA, training,
waste management, tribal strategy, HMIS and IEC. A baseline survey will be undertaken at the start of the project to
ascertain the existing conditions of physical infrastructure and services, and customer use and satisfaction. A mid-
term evaluation will be taken up in the third year of project implementation, focusing on irnprovements in hospital
activity, impact of the secondary level upgradation on the primary health care system, the functioning of the referral
system, user satisfaction, and increased use of hospital services by tribal peoples. The final evaluation will be done in
the last year, and would focus on the achievement of the development objectives of the project, areas that still need
support, sustainability and future directions.
18.     Management of Health Care Waste: The management of health care waste is an important element in
providing quality health care. Risks of improper disposal of health care waste are several, including: occupational
health hazard to doctors, staff, attendants and patients; breeding ground of rodents, mosquitoes and flies and
23



Annex 2
Page 5 of 7
attracting stray animals; source of foul odors; blocking of sewers, drains, and general unhygienic condition in
hospital premises; and increased risk of transmission of diseases from handling and disposal. The hazards posed by
hospital wastes are recognized by the government. The government's plan proposes a three-phase approach. The
first phase (short term), to be initiated within the first six months of the project, would focus on the imnmediate
reduction in hazards from health care waste by the introduction of low cost/no cost measures such as simple
segregation to remove sharps and infected waste, and secure on-site storage to reduce scavenging. In addition, a
waste management orientation program will be undertaken involving hospital staff handling waste. The second phase
(medium term) would include (i) scaled up measures, such as fuller segregation and limited on-site treatment,
including needle crushers; (ii) formation of an inter-disciplinary working group, with a small task force, to implenmelit
agreed measures; (iii) survey of waste arising and technological options, (iv) appraisal of options and cost-benefit
analysis, where possible, for each hospital; and (v) design and implementation of training program. In order to
evaluate the available options for properly managing infectious and hazardous waste, a study will be initiated withinl
the first year of project implementation to collect the necessary additional information. Based on this, the third phase
(long term) would be developed, which would focus on completion of options appraisal, development of appropriate
management systems, institutions, policies, implementation of clinical waste management plans and implementatioll
of the full training program. A waste management team will be constituted for each hospital, and the members will be
sensitized and trained for the implementation of interim and long-term measures.
Project Component 3 - US$21.80 million (17% of total base costs): Improving Access and Innovative Schemes
19.    Selective Upgrading of Community Health Centers (CHCs): In order to better address the health needs at
the community level, it is proposed that 35 CHCs would be strengthened under the project to improve services in 6
clinical areas and to enhance their outreach functions. Streamlined norms and standards for clinical and support
services developed during project preparation would be applied at the first referral hospitals.  Staffing norms
conforming to services that will be provided at each type of facility would be adopted, a system for monitoring
improvements in the quality of clinical care would be established through the adoption of a quality assurance program
and the capacity of support services would be expanded. Staff skills in clinical and technical areas would be
enhanced through the provision of training to improve the quality and range of services. Management training for
professional cadres and on-going in-service training for clinical and technical cadres would also be strengthened.
This would facilitate the implementation of the quality improvement strategy of the project. Within six months of
upgrading each facility, staffing and technical norms would be adopted to ensure improved quality of services. These
CHCs would be provided with inputs including renovation and extension, additional manpower, and the provision of
equipment, drugs and other supplies.
20.     Promoting Health Services for Tribal and Disadvantaged Groups: About 9% of the state's population is
tribal. A majority of them reside in remote and far-flung hilly terrain spread over 14 districts. A beneficiary
assessment study has been undertaken as part of project preparation to: (i) identify through informed participation the
health care needs of tribal communities and constraints in provision of these needs; and (ii) recommend plans for
delivering adequate and quality health care for members of these communities. The beneficiary assessment would
provide baseline data on some performance indicators and would be an on-going project activity.
21.     The project's tribal strategy would be aimed at increasing the demand for primary and secondary health
services in tribal areas by improving the quality of services and providing effective IEC to better inform tribal
populations of the benefits of using government health services. In addition, the project would: (a) strengthen
linkages between primary and secondary health care services; (b) strengthen linkages between the Health Department
and the Integrated Tribal Development Agency; (c) increase access to health care services through the provision of
mobile health clinics and annual health camps; (d) address the high infant and child mortality among tribals by
providing enhanced training to staff in tribal PHCs and CHCs in the management of the critically ill child; and (e)
reduce the cost of utilizing these services. A baseline survey and periodic surveys would be conducted to facilitate
the on-going monitoring and evaluation of the strategy, and an appropriate action plan would be developed to address
the issues identified by the monitoring and evaluation system. A special program is also proposed to increase access
to health care services for both tribals and SCs through a system of annual health camps. They would include
physical examination, simple laboratory investigations, special examination for women, and
24



Annex 2
Page 6 of 7
nutritional advice. A mobile team including a medical officer, lady medical officer, Auxiliary Nurse Midwife and
worker would set up camps according to an established schedule in remote and rural areas. An amount of Rs. 5,000
would be made available for medicines, and an honorarium of Rs. 300 would be paid for hiring the services of a lady
medical officer. Those patients requiring more specialized treatment would be referred to the nearest referral hospital
with a special referral card. The health camp scheme would be first piloted in two districts. In addition, a special
program for orienting health staff working in tribal areas in the care of the critically ill child will be launched to
address the high levels of infant and child mortality in these areas.
22.    Information, Education and Communication (IEC): The IEC component of the project will serve as a link
between the various activities of the project, such as the referral mechanism, the tribal strategy, waste management
system and the surveillance system. The broad objectives of the [EC prograrni proposed under the project are to: (i)
create community awareness regarding the availability of health services at primary and secondary level institutions,
and the need for the timely use of such services; (ii) improve attitudes of health care providers towards patients and
educate them with regard to the referral mechanism; (iii) educate people's representatives so as to generate political
support to improve the quality of health care; and (iv) provide feedback to the government with regard to consuLimer
satisfaction. The target groups will be: government functionaries at the grassroots level; underserved populations,
including women, SCs and STs; patients at the hospitals; health care workers and hospital staff; and private
practitioners and NGOs. Development and implementation of the IEC strategy is expected to be undertaken with the
help of an external professional communications agency. The proposed Deputy Commissioner responsible for IEC il
the Directorate would obtain the specific district level requirements and coorclinate these with the central strategy to
address the needs of the project. A system of continuous education of in-patients and out-patients will be established.
In addition, periodic workshops and seminars will be organized to enhance the knowledge, develop the skills and
change the attitudes of service providers, service users and the community. Knowledge, attitude and practice, and
social marketing research will be undertaken to assess IEC needs. NGOs would be involved in the implementation of
IEC activities and would be contracted to conduct health camps in tribal blocks. The TORs for the selection of NGOs
would follow IDA guidelines. Selection criteria would be developed based on models used in previous IDA projects.
23.     Improving the Referral System: A referral system, which is an institutional mechanism through which
patients with complex health problems are identified in a timely manner, investigated and/or treated relatively
promptly at an appropriate health care facility, will be strengthened under the project. At present. the referral system
in Maharashtra, as in the rest of India, does not function well. Patients perceive the lower level facilities as providing
poor quality of services. As a result, the lower tiers are underutilized and patients proceed directly to higher level
hospitals for minor illnesses, thereby overloading the higher level institutions. It is estimated that a third of all cases
which are currently treated at tertiary facilities could be treated, and at lower costs, at first referral facilities if those
facilities received adequate inputs; and many of the cases treated at district hospitals could be treated at CHCs.
24.    The project would seek to ensure that a much higher proportion of patients coming to first referral hospitals
had been seen at PHCs and CHCs and referred upwards. Likewise, for those patients going to tertiary hospitals, the
project would implement several measures to strengthen the referral system and improve the quality of care at the first
referral level. Special attention would also be given to establishing mechanisms to improve access for remote and
disadvantaged groups and tribal communities. The project would establish linkages and communications between the
first referral and primary health care levels. The first referral hospitals would provide clinical and technical support to
the PHCs; clinical skills at first referral facilities would be updated and upgraded; technical support for the primary
level of care and community hospitals would be strengthened; referral mechanisms between community,
subdivisional and district hospitals would be strengthened; and mechanisms to provide greater access to secondary
and higher levels of health care would be formulated by making the referral system more timely, effective and client-
friendly. Under this sub-component the project would finance vehicles (purchase, hire and maintenance), other
supplies, MIS and IEC materials, local training, consultants, fellowships, workshops and operational expenses.
25.     Developing a Superspeciality Hospital: An innovative scheme under the project would be the development
of a 300-bed superspeciality hospital on the site of the GT hospital in Mumbai as an innovative scheme
25



Annex 2
Page 7 of 7
under the project. This would involve the development and commissioning of an existing government- owned
building along corporate lines following modem management practices as a replicable pilot scheme. 10% of the new
services would be provided to disadvantaged groups, with the remaining services being delivered to private patients.
A feasibility study into the proposed development will be finalized by March 31, 1999 and an implementation plan by
October 31, 1999. Following completion of the study and agreement on the approach by the PHD and the Bank,
funding would be provided to meet part of the capital, equipment and start up costs. About Rs. 45 crores hias been
included in the project costs for this sub-component. The proposed funding has been allocated as follows: 20% civil
works, 40% equipment, and 40% operational costs. It is anticipated that the full costs of the development of the
superspecialty hospital will be met from other private and/or public sources in line with the recommendations of the
study.
26



No.: 1 095/CR 1 88/PH-3
0oS?4MEIV 0E          Annex 3
Pa;ge 1 of 5   PUBUC HEALTH DEPARTMENT,
Mantralaya, Mumbai 400 032.
Phone:   Office: 2873848
Resi.  2830017
1AHARAS~~~~~4~~~            Fax   :(022) 2045150
Telegram: MAHAHEALTH
SECRETARY                                                                                Mumbai
To
To                                       V~~~~~~~~~~~ate: 1 7-1 0-98
The Country Director, INDIA,
South Asia Region,
The World Bank,
Resident Mission,
70 Lodhi Estate, New Delhi- 1 10 003
$ub: World Bank assisted Maharashtra
Health System Development Project-
Compliance of conditions--
Dear Sir.
In continuation of my fax message dated 16th instant regarding
the World Bank assistance   for the Maharashtra Health System
Development Project, I send herewith the Health Sector Development
Policy of the Government of Maharashtra.
With best wishes,
Yours sincerely.
(N.B. Patil)
27



Annex 3
Page 2 of 5
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY MATRIX
ISSUE                         EFFECT                1 PROPOSED CHANGE OR ACTION
Adequacy of overall size I Except 1985-86. State Government  Recogruzing the link between the provision of
of the health budget to  spending on health and familv welfare  health services and povertv alleviation, the
meet public health goals    is well below 1% of SDP with 0.73%   State Government will ensure that in each
in  1996-97.     Although  Budget  fiscal vcar during implementation of the
allocation to State health sector and  project, the share of the overall budget (plan
public health is increasing in absolute  and non-plan) allocated to the health sector,
figures  and  current  prices,  the  excluding all projects specificallv financed
proportional allocation to health sector  either through external assistance or bv way of
is not showing the rising trend after  loan from  financial institutions, shall be
1991-92 (5.39%).                    maintained at least at the level allocated in the
financial year 1997-98.
Allocate more for primarv  The allocation for the prmarv and  The State Government recognizes the need for
and secondarv level health  secondarv levels of health system has  focusing  attention  on  the  primary  and
care services in the State  reached 75% of the total health budget  secondary levels. The government will ensure
budget.                   only during 1996-97, which needs to  that within the health sector the share of
be sustained  in view  of ensuring  resources for the primarv and secondary levels
adequate supply of drugs, consumable.  of health care services shall be increased in
equipment and maintenance of the  each fiscal y ear through out the project.
building and equipment at these levels  starting in the fiscal vear 1998-99.
of the health svstem.   Othervise.
tertiarv  level  services  may  be
overburdened. as the clients seek from
tertiarv institutes, treatment which
could easily be given at the primary of
secondary level.
Resources for non-salarv  The existing secondary level hospitals  Taking into account the budgetary provision,
recurrent costs.          function poorly because of inadequate  the State Government will maintain sufficient
allocation  of funds for non-salary  funds in the non-plan health budget for
recurrent costs (30-35%/o), 65% to 70%   making available adequate supplies of drugs
of the current budget goes to the salarv  and other material supplies at secondary level
component.                          hospitals and for maintenance of equipment
and building. The budget for drugs will be
provided at Rs. 8800 for existing and
incremental beds.
28



Annex 3
Page 3 of 5
Redressal of regional        The 14 tribal districts of Maharashtra  Interventions will be made both within and
imbalances and increased  show  poor hcalth  indicators due to  outside the project to reduce the disparities
access  for  disadvantaged  uneven development of health and other  between the health status of people in tribal and
groups (women and tribal  infrastructure and inadequate delivery of  aremote areas as well as women and those in the
groups).                     services. Due to social and economic  more developed areas. The upgraded subdistrict
reasons utilization of hospital services  hospitals under the project have been selected so
by women other than  for maternitv  lhat 23% of them are located in tribal areas with
related services is loNver than by men.  :550 new beds cater to tribal inhabitants.
Improved utilization can significantly  Thie rationalized referral system, along with
reduec  the  morbidity  and  mortality  organized  hospital familiarization  visits for
among women and tribal.                 community leaders, women groups and tribal,
would  hclp  to  reduce the mental distance
between the clients and the providers.
kppropriate incentives to doctors and nurses
would be offered to ensure the retention of
skilled service providers at hospitals in difficult
and tribal areas. Currently, the doctors serving
t:ribal and difficult area get priority during
selection for In*service postgraduation.  Rent
free quarters are made available to doctors and
nurses at such locations.   The doctors and
nurses putting on certain years of service at
tribal or difficult areas are offered better
posting.
To enhance the access of health services to rural
and tribal, camp approach would be adopted.
Thie services of lady doctors at these camps
would   be   mnade   througlh   contractual
arrangements; where necessary.
Mlandatory  one year rural service  for the
mtedical graduatc candidates selected for post
graduation beforc seeking admission to the post
graduate course will help to ensure the filling of
vacancies.
Women utilization of hospital services both for
maternity and lifc cycle health matters will be
increased by targeting IEC activities at them.
As far as possible one woman doctor will be
posted in a CHC 1.o encourage women to use the
hospital services.
Increasing access and quality of health care by
upgrading CHCs to SDHs, and strengthening of
35 CHCs would improve to the disadvantaged
._______________________     people.
29



Annex 3
Page 4 of 5
Personnel  and  workforee  Improvement of sen iecs at the hospitals  The statc policy of scnding in-service doctors
issues.                      is largcly dcpendent on the workforce.  for skill-mix, postgraduation. compulsory rural
its quality and quantity.  At present  scnricc after completing  post graduation  in
there arc problcms arising from  (i) a  government  medical  college,  sharing   of
mismatch   bctwecn   spccialist  posts  specialties and hiring of specialties  wherevcr
sanctioncd  at  a  facility  and  the  the need arises will be continued to address the
spccialization of the doctor functioning  issue of mismatch  of specialists at health
in the post: and (ii) absenteeism  of  facilities. The scheme of incentives is spelled
doctors in remote and rural areas.      out in the issue number 4.
Establislhment of Strategic  Inadequate strategic planning  in  the  The capacity  for the  strategic  planning  is
planning Cell.               health  sector  has  resulted  in  an  proposed to be enhanced through the setting up
ineffective  utilization  of  resources.  of a unit called the Strategic Planning Cell
Earnarking of funds for various healtlh  (SPC) in the department.  This cell will be
schemes and programs at v arious healtlh  provided  w ith  a  Management  Specialist,
schemes and programs at various levels  Economist (with experience in health sector
of healtlh care presently does not take  economics),
into full consideration the size and scope  Public  Health  Specialist,  and   minimum
of services provided by the voluntary  administrative staff.  It will either directly
and  private commercial sectors: the  undertake or will commission specific studies
availability of existing manpower and its  and research with a view to suggest appropriate
development:  and   the   emerging  healtlh sector reform  and to improve healtli care
epidemiological profile in the state of  services. SPC will monitor the role of private
Maharaslitra.                           sector, formulate the regulations relating to
quality of care to be provided with private
sector, analyze the epidemiological profile in
the state, monitor the disease pattern and
suggest the cost-effective means for achieving
the desired objective within the limited
.______________________________________________________   resources.
Drug     purchase      and  Existing system of approving suppliers  The drug purchase system will be centralized so
distribution,                and prices of drug at the state level and  that orders can be placed and payments made
purchasing of drugs at the district level  centrally  either through  the department or
results in delays. low cost efficiency and  through corporation.   This will ensure better
difficulties in supply.                 quality  control and  efficient use  of scare
resourecs.
30



Annex 3
Page 5 of 5
Public private collaboration   The health expenditure analysis shows  The  rolc  of  private  sector  would  be
that the users hear 80% of total cost for  continuouslv monitored, the quality of services
the  treatment.    This  invites  the  provided by private practitioners would be
recognition of the significance source of  assessed  through   strict  enforccment  of
Primary Health Care (ambulatory care)  Maharashtra Nursing Home Act. In addition,
in the State.                          accreditation of each private hospital in line
with grading of hotels through professional
organization like Indian Medical Association
can be a welcome innovation.
The referral between private primary care and
public diagnosis and treatment would be
encouraged.
Compulsory Continued Medical Education
(CM1-) for private providers at periodic
intemals so as to make them  eligible for
continuation of their registration through State
Medical Council is also consideration.
Contracting  out  selected  At present, hospital support services  Cost-effectiveness  and  quality  of existing
services.                   must be maintained by regular staff  services in hospitals will be monitored. Afler
recruited  for this purpose.   These  review as appropriate, proposals for contracting
employees  have  not  provided  an  out  selected  services,  especially  support
efficient provision of support services,  services will be considered.  Thcse include
resulting in unclean hospitals, poor  laundry, canteen, landscaping, dietary services,
maintenance and upkeep of hospital  sanitation and security.
bedding, clothing, linen, furniture, etc.   The Government proposes to  develop  the
unused G.T. Hospital (Mumbai) in line with
modern corporate management practices to
provide additional high quality local and
Statewide specialist services while ensuring
that the people below poverty line would be
treated free of cost.
User Charges.               User charges are being levied since  The proposal to levy charges at CHCs and
1988 in the district hospitals of the  SDHs along with  revision of charges for
State and about %5 of the recurring  diagnostic services and paid wards at district
allocation is recovered through them.  hospitals is under the consideration of state
Incentives for better collection of user  government.
fees or permission to use the revenue  Increasing the revenue generation to above the
locally  are  not  provided  today.  current level with permission to retain the
Clinicians,  therefore,  seem  to  be  collected revenue at the site if collection is
reluctant to levy the fees.            under consideration  of State  Government.
Exemption of charges to those who can not pay
will be decided based on the JRY cut off of
inconie below Rs. 1 1500 per year.
Periodic review by strategic planning cell will
strearnline the implementation of user charges.
31



Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project
COST ESTIMATES*
Table 1. Project Cost Summary
(Rupee Million)                                  (US$ Million)
%      % Total                                  %      % Total
Foreign    Base                                 Foreign    Base
Local     Foreign     Total   Exchange  Costs    Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange  Costs
Investment Costs
Civil Works/Renovation          1975.5      348.6     2324.1      15.0     43.0      48.4      8.5      57.0      15.0      43.0
Professional Services            191.4      47.8       239.2      20.0      4.0      4.7       1.2      5.9       20.0      4.0
Fumiture                         115.0      12.8       127.8      10.0      2.0      2.8       0.3       3.1      10.0      2.0
Medical Equipment, Major         198.0      297.1      495.1      60.0      9.0      4.9       7.3      12.1      60.0      9.0
Medical Equipment, Minor         72.9       63.2       136.0      46.0      2.0      1.8       1.5      3.3       46.0      2.0
Medical Equipment, Surg Packs     6.3        4.6       10.9       42.0                0.2      0.1       0.3      42.0
Vehicles                         90.5       10.1       100.6      10.0      2.0       2.2      0.2       2.5      10.0      2.0
Equipment (Other)                101.8      25.1       126.9      20.0      2.0      2.5       0.6      3.1       20.0      2.0
Medicines                        40.8       40.8       81.7       50.0      2.0       1.0      1.0      2.0       50.0      2.0
Other Supplies                   83.1                  83.1                 2.0      2.0                2.0                 2.0
MIS/IEC Materials                36.9       12.3       49.2       25.0      1.0      0.9       0.3       1.2      25.0      1.0
Local Training                  241.3                  241.3                4.0      5.9                5.9                 4.0
Studies                          112.2                 112.2                2.0      2.8                2.8                 2.0
w      Fellowships (Local and Foreign)   5.0       44.7       49.7       90.0      1.0       0.1      1.1       1.2      90.0       1.0
Workshops                        20.9                  20.9                           0.5                0.5
Consultancies (incl. N(Os)       52.4                  52.4                 1.0      1.3                 1.3                1.0
Total Investment Costs            3344.1      907.1     4251.1      21.0      78.0     82.0      22.2     104.2     21.0      78.0
Recurrent Costs
Salaries of Additional Staff     536.9                 536.9               10.0      13.2               13.2                10.0
Operational Expenses            448.5       49.8       498.3      10.0      9.0      11.0      1.2      12.8      10.0      9.0
Building Maintenance             58.6        6.5       65.1       10.0      1.0      1.4       0.2      1.6       10.0      1.0
Equipment Maintenance            76.4        8.5       84.8       10.0      2.0      1.9       0.2      2.1       10.0      2.0
Fumiture Maintenance             0.2                    0.2
Vehicle Maintenance               5.6        0.6        6.2       10.0               0.1                0.2       10.0
Total RecurrentCosts              1126.1      65.4       1191.5      5.0      22.0     27.6      1.6      29.8       5.0      22.0
Total BASELINE COSTS               4470.2     972.5      5442.7      18.0     100.0    109.6    23.8      134.0      18.0     100.0
Physical Contingencies          404.2       95.0       499.2      19.0      9.0      9.9       2.3      12.1      19.0      9.0
Price Contingencies             1233.1      300.8     1533.9      20.0     28.0      9.7       2.8      12.0      23.0      9.0
TotalPROJECTCOSTS                  6107.5     1368.3     7475.8      18.0    137.0    129.1      29.0     158.1      18.0     119.0
Estimates inculde the cost for the Superspecialty Hospital. The amount, Rs. 450 million, has been allocated as follows:                             (D t
Civil works 20%, Equipment 40%, and Operational Expenses 40%                                                                                            X
0



Table 2. Components by Financiers
(US$ Million)
Local
GOM               IDA                Total              For.    (Excl.   Duties &
Amount    %       Amount    %        Amount    %         Exch.   Taxes)    Taxes
1. Management Development and Institutional Strengthening
1.a - Improving the institutional framework for policy development    0.1      14.2      0.5      85.8      0.6      0.4                0.6
1.b - Strengthening management and implementation capacity            2.1      17.0     10.3      83.0     12.4      7.8      2.6       9.3       0.5
1.c - Strengthening surveillance capacity for major communicable diseases and
HMIS                                                                  0.5      32.1      1.0      67.9      1.5      0.9      0.1       1.3       0.1
Subtotal                                                                 2.7     18.4     11.8      81.6      14.5      9.2      2.7      11.2       0.6
2. Improving Service Quality and Effectiveness
2.a - Upgrading 25 district hospitals and establishing 29 HTTs        3.2      11.2     29.0      88.8     32.3      20.4     7.5       22.9      1.8
2.b - Upgrade 23 CHCs 100 bedded sub-district hospitals               6.3      19.6     28.2      80.4     34.5      21.8     5.6      27.4       1.5
2.c - Upgrading 53 CHCs as 50 bedded sub-district hospitals           5.6      16.2     31.9      83.8     37.4      23.7     6.7      29.0       1.8
2.d - Upgrading clinical and support services                          1.9     14.1     11.7      85.9     13.6      8.6      1.1       12.0      0.5
Subtotal                                                                17.0    15.6      11.8      84.4     117.8     74.5     20.9      91.3      5.6
3. Improving Access and Innovative Schemes
3.a - Improving referral mechanisms from primary to secondary, and to tertiary
levels                                                                0.4      43.1      0.6      56.9      1.0      0.6      0.1       0.8       0.1
3.b - Provision of extension services to tribal and disadvantaged populations  1.0  35.8  1.8     64.2      2.7       1.7     0.2       2.3       0.2
3.c - Extension of IEC activities to promote health care services     0.1      9.8       0.9      90.2      1.0      0.6      0.2       0.7       0.1
3.d - Provision of essential civil works and clinincal and support services to 35 CHC  3.0  17.4  14.1  82.6  17.1   10.8     4.8       11.3      1.0
3.e - Developing innovative schemes for closer cooperation between the public
and private sectors                                                            0.5       4.0      99.5      4.0      2.5                4.0
Subtotal                                                                 4.5     17.5     21.3      82.5      25.9     16.3      5.4      19.1       1.3
Total Disbursement                                                       24.1     16.1     134.0     83.9     158.1    100.0    29.0      121.6      7.5
e :>
0
o' 9



Table 3. Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
(Rs Million)
Local
GOM                  IDA                 Total                           (Excl.    Duties &
Amount       %      Amount       %       Amount       %      For. Exch.    Taxes)    Taxes
Investment Costs
Civil Works/Renovation         302.6      10.0     2934.9      90.0     3236.9     43.3      497.3       2561.6     178.0
Professional Services                               334.2     100.0     334.2       4.5       68.4       265.8
Fumiture                        17.2      10.0      154.7     90.0       171.9      2.3       17.5       142.3       12.0
Medical Equipment, Major        68.6      10.0      617.7      90.0     686.3       9.2      415.5       222.8       48.0
Medical Equipment. Minor        18.8      10.0      169.1      90.0     187.8       2.5       88.3        86.4       13.1
Medical Equipment, Surg Packs   1.5       10.0      13.5       90.0      15.0       0.2       6.5         7.5        1.1
Vehicles                        13.2      10.0      118.9      90.0      132.1      1.8       13.4       109.4       9.2
Equipment (Other)               16.9      10.0      151.7      90.0     168.5       2.3       33.8       122.9       11.8
Medicines                       11.5      10.0      103.1      90.0      114.6      1.5       58.0        48.5       8.0
Other Supplies                  11.4      10.0      102.6      90.0      114.0      1.5                  108.3       5.7
MIS/IEC Materials               6.8       10.0      60.8       90.0      67.5       0.9       17.2        45.6       4.7
Local Training                                      315.5     100.0     315.5       4.2                  315.5
Studies                                             153.7     100.0     153.7       2.1                  153.7
Fellowships (Local and Foreign)                     66.5      100.0      66.5       0.9      60.0         6.5
Workshops                                           27.3      100.0      27.3       0.4                   27.3
Consultancies (incl. NGOs)                          65.6      100.0      65.6       0.9                   65.6
Total Investment Costs           468.4       8.4     5389.6      91.6     5857.4     78.4      1275.9      4289.7     291.8
Recurrent Costs
Salaries of Additional Staff   315.4      47.1      400.3      52.9     716.0       9.6                  716.0
Operational Expenses           292.7      45.5      398.1      54.5     690.9       9.2       70.8       571.7       48.4
Building Maintenance           45.2       48.2      48.6       51.8      93.9       1.3       9.7         77.6       6.6
Equipment Maintenance           36.1      33.3      72.4      66.7      108.4       1.5       11.0        89.9       7.6
Furniture Maintenance           0.1       49.7       0.1      50.3       0.3                              0.2
Vehicle Maintenance             4.4       50.0       4.4       50.0      8.9        0.1       0.9         7.3        0.6
Total Recurrent Costs            693.9      45.6      923.9      54.4     1618.4     21.6       92.4       1462.8      63.2
Total Disbursement               1162.3      16.4     6313.5     83.6      7475.8    100.0     1368.3      5752.5      355.0
e :>
0  '
o



Table 4. Expenditure Accounts by Years
(US$ Million)
Totals Including Contingencies
1999    2000    2001      2002    2003    2004        Total
Investment Costs
Civil Works/Renovation                    7.9     10.0     19.0    17.3    14.0       68.1
Professional Services                    0.7      1.0      2.0      1.8      1.4       7.0
Furniture                        0.1     0.7      0.7      1.1      0.8      0.3       3.7
Medical Equipment, Major                          4.3      5.8      4.5               14.6
Medical Equipment, Minor                          1.2       1.6     1.2                4.0
Medical Equipment, Surg Packs                     0.1      0.1      0.1                0.3
Vehicles                         0.1      0.6      1.2     0.6      0.5                2.9
Equipment (Other)                0.1      0.7     0.9      1.3      0.7                3.7
Medicines                                0.2      0.6      0.5      0.6      0.5       2.4
Other Supplies                            0.3     0.5      0.7      0.5      0.4       2.4
MIS/IEC Materials                        0.1      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.1       1.4
Local Training                            1.0     1.3       1.7     1.7      1.0       6.7
{,2,                      Studies                                   0.5      0.6      0.8      0.8      0.5       3.3
Ln                        Fellowships (Local and Foreign)           0.2      0.3      0.4      0.4      0.2       1.4
Workshops                                 0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1      0.1       0.6
Consultancies (incl. NGOs)       0.1      0.3     0.4      0.4      0.2      0.1       1.4
Total Investment Costs           0.4     13.3    23.6      36.5    31.6      18.8     124.0
Recurrent Costs
Salaries oU Additional Staff     0.3      0.7      2.9      3.4     3.8      3.8       15.0
Operational Expenses             0.3      2.1     2.1       2.9     3.7      3.5       14.6
Building Maintenance                                        0.4     1.4      0.2       1.9
Equipment Maintenance            0.6      0.9     0.1       0.2     0.4      0.3       2.4
Vehicle Maintenance                                                  0.1               0.2
Total Recurrent Costs            1.1      3.7      5.2     7.0       9.2     7.8       34.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                 1.5     16.9    28.8    43.5    40.9    26.6         158.1
JQ :
0



Table 5. Expenditure Accounts by Years
Base Cost (Rupee Millon)             Foreign Exchange                        Base Cost (US$ Million)              Foreign Exchange
1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    Total       %    Amount  1991    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    Total           % - Amount
Investment Costs
Civil Wk*sRenovation                     278.9   348.6   650.7   581.0   464.8   2324.1   15.0   348.6                 6.8     8.5      15.9    14.2    11.4    57.0    15.0       8.5
Professional Services,                    26.3    35.9    67.0    62.2    47.8    239.2    20.0    47.8                0.6     0.9      1.6     1.5      1.2      5.9     20.0     1.2
FumIture                          2.6     25.6    25.6    38.3    25.6    10.2    127.8    10.0    12.8    0.1         0.6     0.6      0.9     0.6      0.3     3.1      10.0     0.3
Medica Equipment, Major                           148.5   198.0   148.5             495.1    60.0   297.1                      3.6      4.9     3.6              12.1    60.0      7.3
Medical Equipment. Minor                          40.8    54.4    40.8              136.0    46.4    63.2                      1.0      1.3     1.0               3.3     46.4     1.5
Medica Equipment, Surg Packs                       3.3     4.4      3.3             10.9    42.5    4.6                        0.1      0.1     0.1              0.3      42.5     0.1
Vehkcles                          2.0    20.1    40.2    20.1    18.1               100.6    10.0    10.1              0.5     1.0      0.5     0.4               2.5     10.0     0.2
Equipment (Other)                 2.5    25.4    31.7    44.4    22.8               126.9    19.8    25.1     0.1      0.6     0.8      1.1     0.6               3.1     19.8     0.6
Medicines                                 8.2    20.4    16.3    20.4    16.3    81.7    50.0    40,8                  0.2     0.5      0.4     0.5      0.4     2.0      50.0     1.0
Other Supplies                            11.6    15.8    24.9    16.6    14.1    83.1                                 0,3     0.4      0.6     0.4      0.3      2.0
MIStiEC Materials                 0.6     2.5     14.8    14.8    12.3    4.4       49.2    25.0    12.3              0.1      04       0.4     0.3      0.1      1.2    25.0      0.3
Local Training                            36.2    48.3    60.3    60.3    36.2    241.3                                0.9     1.2      1.5     1.5      0.9      5.9
Studies                                   16.8    22.4    28.1    28.1    16.8    112.2                                0.4     0.6      0.7     0.7      0.4      2.8
Fellowships (Local and Foreign)           7.4      9.9     12.4    12.4     7.4     49.7    90.0    44.7               0.2     0.2      0.3     0.3      0.2      1.2     90.0     1.1
Worsshops                                 3.1      4.2     5.2      5.2     3.1     20.9                               0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1      0.5
Consulianies(ind. NGOs)           5.2     10.5    13.1    13.1      7.9     2.6    52.4                       0.1      0.3     0.3      0.3     0.2      0.1     1.3
TotaiInvestmentCosts                12.9   472.6   823.5   1252.6  1065.6   624.0   4251.1   21.3   907.1    0.3         11.6    20.2    30.7    26.1    15.3    104.2    21.3    22.2
0'    Recurrent Costs
SalariesofAddilional Staff       10.7    26.8    107.4   123.5   134.2   134.2   536.9                        0.3      0.7     2.6      3.0     3.3      3.3     13.2
OperabonalExpenses               10.0    74.7    74.7    997    124.6   114.6   498.3    10.0    49.8         0.2      1.8     1.8      2.4     3.1      2.8     12.8    10.0      1.2
Building Maintenance                                       13-0    45.6     6,5    65.1    10.0    6.5                                  0.3     1.1      0.2      1.6     10.0     0.2
EquipmentMaintenance             20.4    30.5    5.1       8.5     11.9     8.5     84.8    10.0    8.5       05       07      0.1      0.2     0.3      0.2     2.1      10.0     0.2
Fumiture Maintenance                                                01               0.2
Vehide Maintenance                                 0.9     1.6      2.1     1.6      6.2     10.0    0.6                                        0.1               0.2     10.0
TotalRecurrentCosts                 41.1    132.1   188.2   246.3   318.4   265.5   1191.5    5.5    65.4        1.0     3.2      4.6     6.0      7.8      6.5     29.2     5.5     1.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                54.0   604.8   1011.7  1498.9  1383.9  889.4   5442.7   17.9   972.5    1.3          14.8    24.8    36.7    33.9    21.8    134.0    17.9    23.8
Physical Contingencies            4.6    56.3    92.0    139.2   127.4    79.8    499.2    19.0    95.0    0.1         1.4     2.3      3.4     3.1      2.0     12.2    19.0      2.3
Price Contingencies
inflation
Local                        1.8    57.0    145.0   307.2   379.8   330.9   1221.7                                1.4     3.6      7.5     9.3      8.1     29.3
Foreign                      0.1     4.0    17.7    35.5    38.5    19.7    115.4   100.0   115.4                 0.1     0.4      0.9     0.9      0.5      2.8    100.0    2.8
Subtotalinflation               1.8    61.0    162.7   342.7   418.3   350.6   1337.2    8.6    115.4               1.5      4.0     8.4      10.3    8.6      32.2     8.6     2.8
Devaluaton                              4.9    26.9    59.3    68.5    37.1    196.7    94.2    185.3               -0.8    -2.2      51      -6.4    -5.8    -20.3
Subtotal Pnce Contingencies       1.8    65.9    189.6   402.0   485.9   387.8   1533.9   19.6   300.8                 0.7     1.8      3.3      3.8     2.8     12.5    22.6      2.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                  60.4   726.9   1293.3  2040.0  1998.2  1357.0  7475.8   18.3   1368.3    1.5    16.9    28.8    43.5    40.9    26.6    158.1    18.3    29.0
Taxes                             30      35.1    62.4    100.1    96.3    58.0    355.0                      0.1      0.8     1.4      2.1      2.0     1.1      7.5                      " 
Foreign Exciange                  4.6    94.7    276.4   428.2   389.4   175.0   1368.3                       0.1      2.2     6.2      9.1     8.0      3.4     29.0                          X
x



Table 6. Project Components by Year
(Rs Million)
Base Cost
1999    2000      2001       2002       2003       2004       Total
1. Management Development and Institutional Strengthening
l.a - Improving the institutional framework for policy development  0.3  3.0  4.4      5.4        5.2        3.5       21.8
1.b - Strengthening management and implementation capacity  3.3   48.1     82.0       111.5      107.4      77.2       429.5
1.c - Strengthening surveillance capacity for major communicable
diseases and HMIS                                         10      7.5       11.4       11.4       12.0       8.4        51.6
Subtotal                                                  4.6     58.6      97.8      128 2      124.6       89.1      502.9
2. Improving Service Quality and Effectiveness
2.a - Upgrading 25 district hospitals and establishing 29 HTTs  13.3    121.3    194.2  322.1    285.8      163.7      1.100.5
2.b- Upgrade 23 CHCs 100 bedded sub-district hospitals    72      1114     217.0      3238       3067       222.4      1,188.5
2.c- Upgrading 53 CHCs as 50 bedded sub-district hospitals  5.4    130.7    226.2     3550       3336       234 1      1.285.1
2.d - Upgrading dinical and support services             12.6    85.3       92.0      122 8      106.1       58.8      477.7
Subtotal                                                 38.6    448.7    729.4       1.123.8    1.032.2    G79.0     4.051.7
3. Improving Access and Innovative Schemes
3.a - Improving referral mechanisms from primary to secondary. and
to tertiary levels                                        0.7     5.2       5.2        7 1        8.7        8.0        34.9
3.b - Provision of extension services to tribal and disadvantaged
populations                                               1.6     13.9      15.5       20.0       23.6       20.0       94.6
3.c - Extension of IEC activities to promote health care services  2 6      8.3        9 9        8.5        4.5        33 8
3.d - Provision of essential civil works and clinincal and support
services o035 CHCs                                        7.7     547      1275       175.3      152.4       68.9      586.5
3.e - Developing innovative schemes for closer cooperation
betweenthepublicandprivatesectors                         0.8     21.1      280        34.5       33.8       20.1      138.3
Subtotal                                                 10.8    97.5      184.5      246.8      227.1      121.4      888.1
Total BASELINE COSTS                                            54.0    604.8    1.011.7    1.498.9    1.383.9     889.4     5.442.7
Physical Contingencies                                        4.6     56.3      92.0       139.2      127.4      79.8      499.2
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                                                     1.8     57.0     145.0      307.2      379.8      330.9     1221.7
Foreign                                                   0.1     4.0       17.7       35.5       38.5       19.7      115.4
Subtotal Inflation                                          1.8     61.0      162.7      342.7     418 3      350.6      1.337 2
Devaluation                                                          4 9      26.9       59.3       68.5       37.1      196.7
Subtotal Price Contingencies                                  1.8     65.9      189.6      402.0      486.9      387.8     1.533.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                                             60.4    726.9    1.293.3    2.040.0    1.998.2    1.357.0    7,475.8               >
Taxes                                                         3.0     35.1      62.4       100 1      96 3       58.0      355.0
Foreign Exchange                                              4.6     94 7      276.4     428.2       389.4      175.0     1.368 3           51
0
'.0



Table 7. Components Project Cost Summary
(Rupee Million)                                  (USS Million)
%     % Total                                  /e    % Total
Foreign   Base                                  Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign      Total   Exchange Costs    Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
1. Management Development and Institutional
Strengthening
1.a - Improving the institutional framework for policy
development                                          21.4        0.4       21.8        2.0                0.5                0.5       2.0
1.b - Strengthening management and implementation
capacity                                            340.0       89.5       429.5      21.0      8.0       8.4      2.2      10.6      21.0      8.0
1.c - Strengthening surveillance capacity for major
communicable diseases and HMIS                       47.4        4.2       51.6        8.0      1.0       1.2      0.1       1.3       8.0      1.0
Subtotal                                               408.8      94.1       502.9      19.0      9.0      10.1      2.3      12.4       19.0      9.0
2. Improving Service Quality and Effectiveness
2.a - Upgrading 25 district hospitals and establishing 29
HTTs                                                846.3       254.2     1100.5      23.0     20.0      20.9      6.0      27.0      23.0      20.0
2.b - Upgrade 23 CHCs 100 bedded sub-district hospitals    1001.6  186.9   1188.5     16.0     22.0      24.7      4.6      29.3      16.0      22.0
2.c - Upgrading 53 CHCs as 50 bedded sub-district
hospitals                                           1060.7      224.2     1285.1      17.0     24.0      26.2      5.5      31.7      17.0      24.0
2d - Upgrading clinical and support services        439.9       37.8       477.7      8.0       9.0      10.9      0.9      11.8       8.0      9.0
cIo   Subtotal                                              3348.5      703.2     4051.7      17.0     74.0      82.7      17.2     100.0     17.0      74.0
3. Improving Access and Innovative Schemes
3.a - Improving referral mechanisms from primary to
secondary, and to tertiary levels                    31.3        3.6       34.9       10.0      1.0      0.8       0.1       0.9      10.0      1.0
3.b - Provision of extension services to tribal and
disadvantaged populations                            86.4        8.2       94.6       9.0       2.0      2.1       0.2       2.3       9.0      2.0
3.c - Extension of IEC activities to promote health care
services                                             26.6        7.3       33.8       21.0      1.0      0.7       0.2       0.8      21.0      1.0
3.d - Provision of essential civil works and clinincal and
support services to 35 CHCs                         423.2       163.3      586.5      28.0      11.0     10.5      4.0      14.5      28.0      11.0
3.e - Developing innovative schemes for closer cooperation
between the public and private sectors               138.0       0.1       138.3                3.0      3.4                 3.4                3.0
Subtotal                                               705.5      182.6      888.1      20.0     16.0      17.4      4.5      21.9      20.0      16.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                   4462.8     979.9      5442.7      18.0    100.0    110.0    24.0       134.0      18.0     100.0
Physical Contingencies                              403.5       95.7       499.2      19.0      9.0      10.0      2.3      12.3      19.0      9.0
Price Contingencies                                 1278.7      255.2     1533.9      18.0     25.0      9.1       2.5      11.8      21.0      9.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                    6145.0     1330.8     7475.8      18.0    134.0    129.3    28.8       158.1      18.0     118.0    >'
os:
_J x
0
'.0



Table 8. Expenditure Accounts by Components
(US$ Million)
Subcomponent*                               la      lb     Ic      2a     2b      2c     2d      3a      3b     3c      3d      3e    Total Phys Cont, (%) Amount
Investment Costs
Civil Works/Renovation                                  44             16.9   13.4   18.1                            0.2    3.9            57.0       10.0        5.7
Professional Services                                   0.5            1.7    1.4    1.9                                    0.3             5.9       10.0        0.6
Fumiture                                        0.1    0.2             1.2    0.5    0.5    0.4                             0.2             3.1       10.0        0.3
Medical Equipment, Major                                               4.9    2.2    2.3                                    2.8            12.1       10.0        1.2
Medical Equipment, Minor                                               0.1    0.5    0.4                                    2.3             3.3       10.0        0.3
Medical Equipment, Surgical Packs                                      0.1    0.1    0.1                                                    0.3       10.0
Vehicles                                                0.7    0.3    0.3    0.2    0.6                                     0.4             2.5       10.0        0.2
Equipment (Other)                                       0.1    0.1                            2.9                                          3.1        10.0        0.3
Medicines                                                                      1.2    0.8                                                   2.0       10.0        0.2
Other Supplies                                                                 1.1    0.7    0.3                                            2.0       10.0        0.2
MISIIEC Materals                                        0.6                                                  0.1    0.5                     1.2       10.0        0.1
Local Training                                                                                4.7            0.4                    0.7    5.9        5.0         0.3
Studies                                         0.3                                                                                 24      28        10.0        0.3
Fellowships (Local and Foreign)                         1.2                                                                                 1 2       5.0         0.1
Workshops                                               0.1                                   0.4                                           05        50
Consultancies (ind. NGOs)                                                                                                   1.1    0.2    1.3         5.0         0.1
TotallnvestmentCosts                               0.4    7.9    0.4    25.2   20.7   25.4    8.6              0.5    0.8    10.9    34    104.2         9.6        10.0
Recurrent Costs
Salaries of Additional Staff                    0.1    2.1    0.2              6.7    4.1                                                  13.2       5.0         0.7
Operational Expenses                                    0.4    0.6    0.1    1.3    1.5    2.3    0.8    1.8                3.4            12.6       10.0        1.2
W    Building Maintenance                                     0.1            0.5    0.4    0.5                                    0.1             1.6       10.0        0.2
Equipment Maintenance                                                  1.2                    0.8                                           2.1       10.0        0.2
Fumiture Maintenance                                                                                                                                  10.0
Vehicle Maintenance                                     0.1                                                                                 0.2       10.0
TotalRecurrentCosts                                0.2    2.6    0.8    1.8    8.4    6.1    3.1    0.8    1.8                 3.5            29.2       7.7        2.3
Totai BASELiNE COSTS                               0.    10. S    t1.31 2702.1    34C    447    flf             2.3    0.S    15.0    3.4   13f4.0                  1')'2.2
Physical Contingencies                                  0.9    0.1    2.7    2.6    2.9    0.9    0.1    0.2    0.1    1.4    0.3    12.2
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                                       0.1    2.3    0.3    5.7    6.9    7.3    2.7    0.2    0.6    0.2    2.8    0.9    29.3
Foreign                                            0.3            0.7    0.6    0.7    0.1                              0.5            2.8
SubtotalInflation                             0.1    2.6    0.3    6.4    7.5    8.0    2.8    0.2    0.6    0.2    3.2    0.9    32.2
Devaluation                                   -0.1   -1.6   -0.2   -3.8   -4.7   -5.0   -1.8   -0. 1    -0.4   -0.1   -1.8   -0.6   -20.3
Subtotal Price Contingencies                            1.0    0.1    2.6    2.8    3.0    1.0    0.1    0.2    0.1    1.4    0.3    11.9             8.4         1.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                                0.6    12.4    1.5    32.3   34.5   37.4   13.6    1.0    2.7    1.0    17.1    4.0   158.1           8.4        13.3
Taxes                                                   0.5    0.1    1.8    1.5    1.8    0.5    0.1    0.2    0.1    1.0                  7.5       9.1         0.7
Foreign Exchange                                        2.6    0.1    7.5    5.6    6.7    1.1    0.1    0.2    0.2    4.8                 29.0       8.9         2.6      '  k
See Table 6 for names of subcomponents                                                                                                                                   G  X
0



Table 9. Expenditure Accounts by Components
(Rs Million)
Subcornponent'                Ia      lb     Ic      2a     2b      2c     2d      3a      3b     3c      3d     3e    Total Phys Cont (%) Amount
Investment Costs
Civil Works/Renovation                   178.8          691.1  548.3  737.0                            9.9   158.9         2,324.1     10.0        232.4
Professional Services                     22.3    0.3    67.8   57.1   79.0            1.0             1.3    10.4          239.2       10.0       23.9
Fumiture                          3.0    9.9    1.5   47.9   22.2   20.9   14.4                        1.0    7.1           127.8      10.0        12.8
Medical Equipment, Major                                198.7   90.6   93.0                                  112.8          495.1       10.0       49.5
Medical Equipment, Minor                                 5.0    20.9   17.2                                   92.9          136.0      10.0        13.6
Medical Equipment. Surg Packs                            2.7    3.3    3.3                                    1.6            10.9      10.0         1.1
Vehicles                           0.7    26.8   11.1   11.9   10.1   23.8                                    16.1          100.6       10.0       10.1
Equipment (Other)                         3.4    3.0    1.3    0.3    0.5   118.0                             0.4           126.9      10.0        12.7
Med'icines                                                      49.3   32.4                                                  81.7      10.0         8.2
Other Supplies                                                  42.9   28.3   11.9                                           83.1      10.0         8.3
MIS/tEC Materials                        24.8                                                  3.0    21.4                   49.2      1G.0         4.9
Local Training                            1.8    1.4                           191.6          16.7                   29.8   241.3       5.0        12.1
Studies                           11.9           1.0                                                                 99.3   112.2      10.0        11.2
Fellwships (Local and Foreign)           49.7                                                                                49.7       5.0         2.5
Vorkshops                                 5.0                                  15.9                                          20.9       5.0         1.0
Consultancies (ind. NGOs)                                                                                    44.7    7.7    52.4        5.0        2.6
TotallnvestmentCosts                15.6  322.5   18.3  1,026.4  845.1  1,035.4  351.8   1.0    19.7   33.6  444.9  136.9  4,251.1        9.6        406.9
Recurrent Costs
Salaries of Additional Staff      5.5   84.7    7.5             272.3  167.0                                                536.9       5.0        26.8
Operational Expenses                     14.4   23.8    4.8    54.7   59.8   91.9   34.0   74.9              138.7   1.4   498.3       10.0        49.8
g1        Building Maintenance                      5.0            18.9   16.0   22.1                            0.2    2.9            65.1       10.0        6.5
Equipment Maintenance             0.5    0.1    0.2    50.0                    34.0                                          84.8      10.0        8.5
Fumiture Maintenance                             0.2                                                                         0.2       10.0
Vehicle Maintenance               0.3    2.8    1.7    0.4    0.4    0.8                                                     6.2       10.0        0.6
Total Recurrent Costs                6.2   107.0   33.3   74.0   343.4  249.7  125.9   34.0   74.9    0.2   141.6   1.4  1,191.5          7.7        92.3
Total BASELINE COSTS                 21.8   429.5   51.6  1,100.5 1,188.5 1,285.1  477.7   34.9   94.6   33.8   586.5  138.3  5,442.7      9.2       499.2
Physical Contingencies            1.9   35.9   4.7   110.0  105.2  120.2   37.4    3.5    8.6    3.4    56.4   12.0   499.2
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                         5.7   94.0   12.4   231.8  281.6  298.6  109.2   8.8   23.8    7.2   112.2   36.4  1,221.7
Foreign                              10.3   0.5    30.0   22.5   27.0    3.9    0.4    1.0    0.9    19.0               115.4
Subtotal Inflation              5.7   104.3   12.9  261.7  304.1  325.6  113.0   9.3   24.8   8.1   131.3   36.4  1,337.2
Devaluation                     0.1    17.1    0.8    51.1   38.5   46.2    6.4    0.8    1.8    1.5   32.5               196.7
SubtotalPnceContingencies         5.8   121.4   13.7   312.9  342.6  371.8  119.5   10.0   26.6    9.5   163.7   36.4  1,533.9          8.4       128.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                  29.6   586.8   70.0  1,523.4 1,636.3 1,777.0  634.6   48.5   129.8   46.7   806.6  186.6  7,475.8    8.4        628.1
Taxes                             0.4    22.0    4.0    85.6   70.9   84.9   25.1    3.3    7.6    2.9    48.2    0.1   355.0           9.1        32.3
Foreign Exchange                  0.6   122.3   5.8   355.5  262.8  315.2   51.2    5.1    11.7   10.2   227.7   0.2  1,368.3           8.9       121.8      d  -
See Table 6 for names of subcomponents                                                                                                                    r  (D
x



Annex 5
Page I of 6
Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project
Public Expenditures on the Health Sector
Introduction
1.     Annexes 5 and 6 review the economic analyses undertaken for this project. This annex reviews the
fiscal situation in Maharashtra, analyzing past trends in selected asspects of public finance, expenditures on
health and family welfare services, the resulting shifts in the structure of health expenditures, the burden of
ineremental recurrent costs of the project, and the conditions for financial sustainability. Annex 6 deals with
cost recovery, user charges and cost-effectiveness. Other economic analyses are addressed in the text of the
PAD. These include: (i) how the project relates to the CAS (Section B); (ii) analysis of project alternatives
(Section D); and project benefits and beneficiaries (Section E).
State Finances
2.     A review of overall developments in state government finances in India reveals that, through the
1980s, revenues grew at a slower rate than expenditures. This has led to the emergence of revenue deficits
and to the growth and changing composition of fiscal deficits. Calculations of individual state deficits as a
proportion of their own state domestic product suggest that for the eleven most populated states the averagc
gross fiscal deficit increased slightly, from 4.2 to 4.3 percent, in the early 1990s. However, differences
between states are quite substantial. Interest payments on state debt of almost all states have incrcased in the
same period, partly because of the reformn program undertaken by the center in its move toward a market
oriented cconomy. This has affected overall tax revenues and the size of the central govermment's transfers to
states, and has increased interest rates on the states' borrowings fromr the center.
3.     In relative terms, the fiscal situation in Maharashtra has been better than in the other most populated
states. The revenue account showvs a small surplus only in one year, and increasing after that (Table 1). As
the revenue deficit increased, the composition of fiscal deficit changed as well, and a largcr share of
borrowings were siphoned off to covcr current rather than capital expenditures.   Importantly, in
Maharashtra. even though the deficit on the revenue account has been increasing, it has not been much more
than about one percent of SDP.
4.     Debt. The evolution of public dcbt -- thc discounted prescnt value of furthcr debt scrvice payments --
has not followed that of other states in India. declining from 14.0 percent of SDP in 1993 to 12.1 percent in
1997. The nationial average stands at 25 perccnt of GDP for 1997. Total debt of the Government is
estimated at Rs. 190.140i million at the cnd of FY 1996/97. The pcr capita debt burden increased from Rs.
1.475 in FY 1993/94 to Rs. 2.164 in FY 1996/97. Intercst payment on dcbt is relatively low, increasing
marginally from 11. 5% of total revenue cxpcnditure in FY 1993/94 to 11.7% in FY 1996/97.
5.     Maharashtra's statc domcstic product (SDP) has been growing at an avcrage annual rate of over 6
percent in real terms sincc 1980. placing it first among major Indian states. The gross fiscal dcficit, which
rcflects the combined balances in the revenue and capital accounts of the statc budget, ranged between 2.4
percent and 3.2 percent of SDP. This statistic calculated for elcven large states avcraged at about 4.5 percent
of SDP for the period.
41



Annex 5
Page 2 of 6
Table 1. Maharashtra: Overall Finances, 1990/91 - 1995196
1990/91    1991/92    1992/93     1993/94    1994/95    1995/96   1996/97
SDP (Rs. million,  296567    296289    334215      363591    387460    427657   457593
1980-81 prices)
Fiscal deficit   2.80        2.41       3.24       2.34       2.60       3.16      3.08
(% SDP)                       ____
Revenue dericit   0.09       0.40       0.91       0.13       -0.25      0.46      1.05
(%    SDP)        I__ __       _I_ _
Public debt                                        14.04      1286       12.70     12.12
(% SDP)                                                       12__86__J__12
Trends in Expenditure on Health and Family Welfare
6.     Share of budgetarv rcsources devoted to hcalth. Expenditure on health and family welfare has bcen
growing, but has remaincd less than one percent of SDP, cxcept in 1985-86, and has been falling in the
1990s, from 0.88 percent in 1990-91 to 0.67 percent in 1996-97. This is well below the requiremcnt to meet
basic public health prioritics (World Dcvelopment Report 1993), and below the levels required to achieve the
servicc norms set by the Govcrnmcnt of India (India: Policy and Finance Strategies for Strcngthening
Primary Hcalth Carc Services, 1995). Further, the sharc of health in total state revenue expenditure has been
dcclining, exccpt, again, in 1985-86, and a slight incrcase in 1995-96. In spite of this trend in overall health
expenditure, pcr capita cxpenditure shows an incrcase in recent years, up from Rs. 28.7 in 1994-95 to Rs.
33.6 in 1996-97 in rcal tcrms. Oncc morc, 1985-86 is an out-lier; bcttcr perforrnancc in terms of expenditure
in this year is probably because of a substantial cxpansion in infrastructure, in keeping with newly
cstablished norms.
Table 2. Maharashtra: Health Sector Expenditures, 1980181 - 1996197
1980-81    1985-86    1990-91    1994-95    1995-96    1996-97
Total revenue expenditure     13.04      16.97     15.20      12.17      11.72      12.55
- % SDP
Total revenue expenditure     0.88       1.81      0.86       0.70       0.69       0.67
on health - % SDP
Total revenue expenditure     6.32       10.49     5.45       5.12       5.18       5.14
on health - % total revenue
expenditure
Per capita expenditure on     19.40     47.10      31.40      28.70      30.20      33.60
|health, Rs (1980-81 prices)            I          I_I_I
Budgetary Allocations and Composition of Health Budget
7.     Budgetary allocations devoted to both public health, and the health sector overall, have almost
doubled since 1990-91, but their respective shares in state budgetary resources have not shown an
improvement. The share of the health sector declined from 5.37 percent of the budget in 1991-92, to 3.49
percent in 1996-97; the share of public health shows a smaller decrease, from 3.28 percent of the state budget
in 1991-92 to 2.45 percent in 1995-96, with a slight increase in the last financial year.
42



Annex 5
Page 3 of 6
Table 3. Maharashtra: Budgetary Allocations within the Health Sector, 1990/91 - 1996/97
1990-91    1991-92    1992-93    1993-94    1994-95     1995-96   1996-97
State budget      108536.0  105498.1   144953.7    163040.0   192187.2    217193.6  260699.0
Total health      5075.8    5663.0    5767.2       5778.4    6900.6       7666.4    9106.2
budget
% state budget    4.68       5.37      3.98        3.54       3.59        3.53       3.49
Public health     3127.7    3457.5    4026.0       4331.1      4765.5     5320.1    6826.5
% health budget    61.62     61.05      69.81       74.95     69.06       69.40      74.97
ESIS              322.3      434.5      451.2      493.3      579.6       541.1      511.1
% health budget    6.35      7.67       7.82       8.54       8.40         7.06      5.61
MED ED            1625.8    1771.0    1290.0        954.0      1555.5      1805.2    1768.6
% health budget    32.03     31.27      22.37       16.51     22.54       23.55      19.42
8.     Public health has been thc focal activity of the health sector, consistently recciving over 60 percent of
the budget, and ranging bctween 69 and 75 percent since 1992-93. Medical education received one third of
the budget until 1991-92, after which it has been reduced to between 16-24 percent. In fact, there was a
scctoral re-allocation of funds from medical education to Employees State Insurance Scheme (ESIS) and
public hcalth between 1992-93 and 1995-96, as indicated by an increase in their share of total health
budgetary rcsources, and a decline in that of mcdical education. For the last year, re-allocation favored only
public health, with the shares of both medical education and ESIS dropping.
Table 4. Maharashtra: Health Budget by Source of Fund
1990/91    1991/92    1992/93       1993/94    1994/95    1995/96    1996/97
Center
Plan         908.85      1052.21     1222.36      1178.21    1352.66    1191.46    1847.53
SVtate
Plan         538.97      594.33     596.2        606.7      553.09      928.69     1386.21
Non-Plan      1679.84    1810.90    2207.41      2545.86    2859.74     3199.95    3592.83
Total        3127.66     3457.44    4025.97      4330.77    4765.49     5320.1    6826.57
9.     State contributions to the total public health budget stands at 70 percent or more, while its share in
new spending i.e. plan expenditure is about half of this, ranging between 32 percent and 42 percent. This is
because non-plan expenditure, which accounts for over half the total health budget, is the sole responsibility
of the state. However, if family welfare, which is a Centrally sponsored scheme, is deducted from plan
expenditure, state contribution is over 65 percent of the total.
43



Annex 5
Page 4 of 6
Table 5. Maharashtra: Distribution of Budget Expenditure, 1992/93 - 1996/97
1  1992/93       1993/94       1994/95     1995/96     1996/97
Level of health service (% of health budget)
a. Primary                             58.2          60.2          54.1         54.3       60.7
b. Secondary                           11.6          14.7          15           15.1        14.3
c. Tertiary                            30.2          25.1          30.9         30.6        25
Item of expenditure (% of health budget)
a. Salary                              56.5          61.2         61.4          62.7       55.7
Materials                            13.8          15.7          14.8         15.8       20
c. GIA                                  7.3           3.2           8.2          4.1         5.6
d. Civil works                         11.8          10.2           6.1          3.5         7.1
c. Contingency                         10.6           9.7           9.5         14          11.6
iProgram (% of public health budget)
la. Minimum nccds                      40.8          40.5          38.6         43.2        39.5
b. Hospital services                   11.2          13.5          13.6         14.5        12.9
c. Family welfarc                      22.3          21            22.4         17          18.8
d. Communicable discase                19.9          19.6          21.3         18.6       22.9
c. NCDs and others                      5.9           5.4           4.1          6.7         5.9
10.    In each year, a significant share of public resources is being absorbed by unrecovered current
expcnditures spent on providing curative care in urban tertiary hospitals, nearly twice that allocated to
secondary health. Expenditures in the range of 11 - 15 percent for the secondary level is about the same
sharc as in Andhra Pradesh. Primary health care received the bulk of budgetary resources, over 50 percent.
The total health budget is distributed across six main items of expenditure: salaries, materials, Grants-in-Aid
(GIA), civil works, and contingencies. Close to 60 percent of the budget has been devoted to salaries
throughout the 1990s, and with materials, is the only other item with a positive rate of growth in nominal
terms for the entire period. Minimum needs has clearly been the priority program of the public health sector,
receiving about 40 percent of the public health budget. There has been a switch between family welfare and
communicable disease for second place in the last two years, but together, these three items have accounted
for over 75 percent of budget allocations throughout the period.
Cost Effectiveness
11.    The challenge has been to encourage a shift in a number of services which are currently provided at
the tertiary level to the secondary level. Recent analysis has indicated that substantial cost savings can result
if health care services are provided at the lower tiers of the health care system. This is particularly true
between the tertiary and secondary levels where the range of services provided is similar. It is estimated that
between 25-40 percent of costs could be saved by treating patients at secondary facilities rather than at
tertiary hospitals. Such cost comparisons between the secondary and primary levels are more difficult since
the services offered at these two levels have greater divergence.
44



Annex 5
Page 5 of 6
12.    Table 6 is a summary of costs for specific interventions at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels
in Andhra Pradesh, a neighboring state which is comparable to Maharashtra in many ways. The results from
the Andhra Pradesh Burden of Disease and Cost Effectiveness Study' are sunmmarized here. These estimates
are achieved by comparing the overall unit costs related to specific inputs for in-patients and out-patients at
secondary versus tertiary hospitals and by giving cost and efficiency comparisons of secondary versus
tertiary level hospitals in terms of costs per case equivalent. While the data, specific issues and examples
presented are specific to the situation in Andhra Pradesh, with a few modifications the results would be
applicable to Maharashtra as well.
Table 6. Costs at the PHC, Secondary and Tertiary Levels (Rs.)
PHC              Secondary               Tertiary
Bed Day                    73.18               69.52                  52.70
OP Contact                   9.65                2.45                  14.24
Level I Test2               12.88                11.95                  27.21
Level II Test                                   24.86                   38.28
X-Ray                     48.45               55.45                  76.66
Major OT                                       55.67                  125.00
Project Financial Sustainability.
13.    The financial sustainability of the project is dependent on the ability and commitment of the state
govemment to allocate resources for the continuation of project activities at the end of the project period and
to support adequately those non-project activities upon which projecl: implementation depends. The level of
recurring costs and the level, composition and trends in health expenditure will have an important bearing on
financial sustainability; the effectiveness of the health care system clepends on the availability of recurrent
inputs and adequate maintenance.
14.    To measure the burden this would impose on public finances, trend growth rates have been used to
extrapolate state domestic product and revenue expenditure on health to the last year of the project. Total
recurrent expenditure incurred during the last year of the project, which is estimated to be Rs. 328 million,
will not be a significant proportion of estimated SDP (less than 0.01 percent), and only 1.3 percent of the
estimated revenue expenditure on health.
15.    This recurrent expenditure would be equivalent to about 10 percent of the addition to revenue
expenditure on health arising out of an annual trend increase in the first year after project closure. Thus, trend
analysis clearly indicates that project related incremental costs are sustainable based on past rates of growth
alone. In practice, of course, incremental costs are likely to be met only partly through trend increases;
changes in sectoral allocations favoring health are expected.
' Administrative Staff College of India. "Andhra Pradesh Burden of Disease and Cost-Effectiveness of Health
Interventions". Report Volume II, 1966. Centre for Social Services, Hyderabad.
2 Level I refers to blood picture, urine exam, and sputures for TB, while Level II refers to blood sugar, blood urea,
electrolyte, and urine and blood culture and sensitivity.
45



Annex 5
Page 6 of 6
16.    Further, increased expenditure resultant from the project would not significantly alter the distribution
of the health budget itself. Given that a majority of project related spending is directed at the secondary level,
assigning the bulk of incremental costs to this system would not imply a shift in emphasis vis-a-vis other
levels of health sector activities. Assuming no other changes in the composition of health expenditures, the
share of secondary health in the public health budget wvould increase by about two percent at the end of this
project. Alternatively, the trend increase in the absolute share of the secondary system in the first year after
project closure would cover recurrent cost arising from the project in that year.
17.    Finally, the financial implications of the project for the state government would also include service
charges for the loan. Including contingencies, estimated project cost is Rs. 7,475 million, amounting to less
than 4 percent of current outstanding debt. For 1997-98, public debt is estimated at 9 percent of SDP, and
interest payments on debt at 13.5 percent of revenue expenditure. These figures on average are 25 and 18,
respectively, across other major states, and would support a strong case for effective debt management in
Maharashtra for the future as well.
Conclusion
18.    The incremental recurrent costs are not substantial additions to the health budget. The increased
private sector participation in Maharashtra that will be gcnerated due to the project and the commitment of
the government to the development of the health sector imply that this addition would be sustainable.
However, as the rate of growth of health expenditures in rccent years has been below the growth rate of
overall expenditure, it is necessary, at a minimum, to alter the composition of expenditure so that contribution
to the hcalth sector is increased. In addition, it is necessary that increased resources be allocated to the
primary and secondary level of health care.
46



Annex 6
Page I of 7
Maharashtra Health Systems Developmenit Project
User Charges
Introduction
I .    This annex addresses issues related to cost recovery and user charges. Existing user charge
policy is reviewed, and the potential for enhancing resources by implementing fees more
rigorously, strengthening collection mechanisms and through periodic enhancement of fees for
selected medical services is explored. The annex also discusses issues of retention of funds at the
facility level and targeting of beneficiaries for exemption from fees. A limited number of scenarios
for possible cost recovery schemes are presented for illustrative purposes.
2.     Revenue collection reports at public facilities in India indicate that the level of cost
recovery in medical and public health services is generally low. This does not, however, take into
account services such as private nursing and diet support that families provide to patients during
their hospital stay. Although it is difficult to estimate how much higher actual cost recovery is
compared to reported revenue data, evidence still suggest that cost recovery is relatively low in
India.
3.     A study of cost recovery between 1975 and 1989 indicates that Maharashtra's collection
rate was similar to the average collection rate of other major states in India. Of the 15 states, the
average level of cost recovery in the health sector was the highest in Punjab at 7.7 percent, while
cost recovery in Maharashtra was 5 percent. The average for India was about 3.8 percent (India:
New Directions in Health Sector Development).
4.     User fees have been set quite low in Maharashtra ancl cover only a narrow range of
services. Mechanisms for collecting user fees have been inadequate. In addition, there are many
exemptionis, some of which are clearly justified, including exemptions for the poor for promotive
health. Others are less clear, including exemptions or reduced rates for Government employees.
Collection rates are also low because patients are reluctant to pay service charges, or in some cases
even attend public health facilities, when the quality of those facilities are poor or drugs not
available. Moreover, there has been little incentive to collect user charges because the hospitals
have been unable to retain even a part of the revenues collected; the funds generated have reverted
to the Government treasury whiere they have become part of general revenues.
Existing Practices
5.     Three-quarters of total health expenditures in India are mnade directly by patients to private
doctors and hospitals.  In the case of public health facilities, given that the poor are
disproportionately represented among users of such facilities, full cost recovery is neither feasible,
nor desirable. However, user charges are important to supplement public health expenditure, and
given the equity issue, need to be administered through a systemt that effectively combines service
fees with targeted exemptions.
6.     Maharashtra already has in place a system of user charges. In keepiing with the State's
policy to promote both public health and equity, all social safety net services are provided free of
charge -- these include the basic public health package and essential clinical services, primarily
comprising the national health program (disease control, FW/MCH and nutrition). In addition,
47



Annex 6
Page 2 of 7
state representatives and employees, or those in official custody are provided free medical services,
along with disaster victims, STD and AIDS patients, and mental and drug rehabilitation inmates.
Outpatient charges
7.     For sections of the population not exempt from user charges, an outpatient registration fee
of Rs. 2 per week is applicable. Further charges ranging between Rs. 5 and Rs. 50, are levied for
laboratory investigations, and other special investigations. The last revision to these charges was
done in 1988. None of the outpatient revenue may be retained by the collecting facility, all
revenues accrue to the government. In 1996, outpatient user charges amounted to Rs. 2.7 million.
Inpatient charges
8.     In-patient charges, too, were last revised in 1988, with indoor charges being Rs. 5 per day,
and additional diet charges of Rs. 3 per meal. Operations range between Rs. 10-120, deliveries are
free of charge for up to two, and Rs. 10 charged for any further cases. Special investigations range
from Rs. 5 to Rs. 60. In-patient collections totaled Rs. 9.7 million in 1996.
9.     Client surveys indicate a willingness to pay user charges at all levels of health care,
provided satisfactory quality is achieved and maintained in both clinical services and support
facilities/amenities throughout the system. However, performance in terms of cost recovery has
been limited mainly because of (i) difficulties in assessing income levels to implement the poverty
based exemption criteria; and (ii) staff being both insufficient for, and indifferent to, the actual
execution of the policy.
New Proposal for Cost Recovery
10.    A new proposal for increased user charges has been drawn up for Maharashtra, and this is
detailed in Table 1. Further, some specific measures to tackle the problems of targeting and
inefficient administration have been developed. Measures for effectively implementing an income-
pegged exemption criterion include:
*  using cards to identify beneficiaries below the poverty line - these cards could be specifically
designed to classify targeted populations, or existing need-based cards may be used, e.g. ration
cards. This classification would be reviewed periodically to capture any changes in poverty
status;
*  geographical targeting of an entire region  where the majority of the population  is
disadvantaged;
*  patient selection may be allowed between free or paid facilities, with the latter merely having
more amenities without any difference in quality of care; and
*  in a limited number of cases (not to exceeded 15%) staff of an institution may make rulings on
cases for exemption.
I1.    It is proposed that 100 per cent of total revenue raised is to be retained at the point of
collection, and used locally as non-salary expenditure for improving the quality of services -- e.g.
infrastructure and equipment maintenance, and supply of drugs. Underutilized facilities may be
made available at subsidized rates for private practice, providing additional earnings, and at the
same time, ensuring operation at full capacity. Also, to stay abreast with general price increases,
48



Annex 6
Page 3 of 7
charges levied for various services would be reviewed every two years.
12.    The policy of plowing back revenue at its source would improve the work environment,
and uplift staff morale. Other measures to promote staff performance have also been suggested
within the process of cost recovery: a system of awards and incentives to improve individual
performance, and transparency in finance and accounting to enhance confidence in the institutional
structure. To facilitate the latter, implementation of the scheme wvould be monitored regularly at all
levels -- each institute would have a single collection point for user charges. Thlis would prevent
leakage and would also be convenient for patients. These accoulits would be scrutinized daily by
an AO, weekly by a RMO; montlily by a Civil Surgeon, and finally, reviewed at Hospital Visiting
Committee meetings. Managerial decentralization is, in fact, to be carried out througlhout the health
system, along with extensive augmentation of techniical skills through a comprehensive training
component, quality assurance program (including clinical and referral protocols), IEC and effective
social marketing, and MIS. All these should further support enhancement of staff morale and
performance, and improve overall quality of health services.
Table 1. Proposed Revision of User C'harges
Services         Existing                                 Proposed changes
Charges    CHC       50 bed        100 bed SDH           DH
for DH               SDH   Cat. A    Cat. B     Cat. A    Cat. B
OPD registration (week)     2         2         2          2         2         2        2
In-door charges (daily)     5         5         5         10         5        10        5
Diet charges (per meal)     3                             30        10        30        10
Operations:
(a)major (w/anaesthesia)   120                            25C       150       250      150
(b)minor (w/anaesthesia)    50                            10C       75        100       75
(c)minor (w/o anaesthe.)    10                            25        20        25        20
Deliveries:
(a) up to two                                      fully subsidized
l(b) 3+                     20                            100       50        100       50
Nursing home charges:
(a) general wards           15                            40        30        50        40
(b) private room           80                             100       80        100       80
Ambulance charges:
(a) return/km               2         2         2          2         2         2        2
(b) waiting/hr             20         20        20        20        20        20        20
Investigations:
(a) blood                   5                             1C         5        10        5
(b) urine/stool             10                            15        10        15        10
(c) X-ray                  20                             50        25        50        25
(d) ECG                    30                             60        50        60        50
(e) ENT check-up            10                            25i       20        25        20
(f dental check-up          10                            2'i       20        25        20
Note:
CHC = Community health center             Cat A = rooms with "luxury amenities"
SDH = Sub-divisional hospital              Cat. B = rooms have fewer amenities
DH = District hospital
49



Annex 6
Page 4 of 7
13.    It is not expected that the above measures would lead to any strong adverse impact on
overall demand for health services. There is good evidence to suggest that there is still substantial
scope to increase certain charges before costs will approach those found in the private sector.
Potential Revenues from Revised User Charges
14.    An indicative example is developed of the potential revenue that could be generated
through the revision and enhancement of user charges.
Paying beds
15.    Two sets of projections are made here to illustrate the potentiality. Table 2 indicates
additional revenues that could be earned if the revised rates of user charges were to be implemented
rigorously for paying beds. Comparing current cost recovery with this in the last year of the project
indicates a five-fold increase in revenue, due to both higher user charges as well as additional
(paying) beds. Separating the two, if user charges where levied at old rates, with full collections,
revenue would be about Rs. 4 million annually; an increase in the number of paying beds adds
another one million.
Table 2. Project Revenue from Paying Beds*
Type of                Current                                 Project end
facility   No. of beds  Paying beds  Revenue (Rs) Additional beds Paying beds Revenue
(Rs)
SDH 50 beds       1590         0            0           1060          530       821500
SDH 100 beds       690          0            0           1610          230      713000
(Category A)                                                                           l
SDH lO0 beds       690          0            0           1610          345      534750
(Category B)                                                                           l
Dti 100 beds      7035        175        271250           0           500      1550000
(Category A)                                      ____l
DH 100 beds       7035        325        504000           0           1000     1550000
(Category B)             IlI_I_ I
Total                      500        775250                      2605      5169250
* calcuilated iusing average annutal occupancy of310 days
Surgeries
16.    Table 3 calculates revenue from surgeries. The total average number of outpatients in
Maharashtra is 962,550 annually. If the poverty criterion were applied, approximately 30 per cent
would be exempt from user charges. The remaining 673,785 are divided up using the proportion of
paying beds at various levels--subdivisional and district (for both categories of beds). Assuming
then that one fourth of total surgeries are major, column six then calculates cost recovery from
surgery at the revised rates of service charges. Column five uses the old rates, as well as the old
classification, i.e. there is a single charge for each type of operation (see Table 1). Estimates
indicate about a 60 percent increase in revenue at the revised fees compared with earnings at
existing levels of user charges.
50



Annex 6
Page 5 of 7
Table 3. Potential Revenue from Surgeries
Type of facility  Total patients  Major surgeries Minor surgeries; Current revenue Potential
(Rs.)          revenue (Rs)
SDH 100 (cat A)      74685          18671          56013          5041211       10269133
SDH 100 (cat B)      112027         28007          84020          7561816       10502522
DH OO(cat A)         162358         40589          121768         10959154     223242 02
DH 100 (cat B)      324716          81179          243537        21918307      30442093
Total               673785          168446         505339        45480488      73537950
The private sector
1 7.    The interface between the public and the private sector provides another logical area of
improving healthi outcomes while simultaneously generatinig some measure of cost recovery. This
is particularly the case in India where private sector expenditure oii health is already large, about 78
percent of total spending on healtlh. In Maharashtra, considerinig the strength of the private sector
in the urban areas, new ideas for collaboration are being explored. Innovative arranigements could,
for example, include the contracting out of expensive capital and diagnostic equipment to private
doctors at public facilities in the evening hours when outpatient services are closed at public
facilities. If, for example, Rs. 50,000 per facility was raised annually by leasing out the use of
pathology testing equipment to private doctors and their outpatients in the State's approximately
330 existing secondary facilities, about Rs. 17 million could be generated. Such an arrangement
would assist in improving health outcomes, maximize use of expensive capital equipment, help
defray costs and strengthen a perception of quality in the public hospital system.
1 8.    A clear, fair and simple exemptions policy is required to protect the poor, promote good
healthi and to ensure overall community acceptance of user charges. None of the above illustrative
revisions and additions would apply to promotive or preventive interventions, such  as
immuniizationis, or to any services at the primary health level. In all cases, however, the poor are
exempted or heavily subsidized.
Summary
19.    Wages absorb the bulk of costs, and with limited cost recovery, budgets for maintenance
and consumables are squeezed, unidermining quality and credibility of the systern. Reasonable cost
recovery charges can contribute to the maintenance of essential supplies, equipment, and quality
within the health system, thereby improving overall health outcomes, financial sustainability and
overall credibility. For this to be effective, user charges should not be a substitute for adequate
budget support from the Government, but should supplement it. In addition, for user charges to be
acceptable, there should be clear and simple exemptions for the poor, and a clear link between
charges and quality improvements. The best way for that to occur is for the  charges to be
collected, and utilized, at the source. Experience in other states iniplementing State Health Systems
Development Projects shows that retention of funds at the facility level is resulting in substantial
improvement in operations and maintenance functions.
20.    Various options are available that will help defray costs and put the health system on a
sustainable and viable basis. The simple measures canvassed above are included in the table
below.
51



Annex 6
Page 6 of 7
Table 3. Summary of Potential Revenue from Cost Recovery
Type of charge                            Annual cost recovery
(Rs. Million)
Paying beds                                                  5.1
Surgery charges                                              73.5
Leasing out to private sector                                17.0
Total                                                       95.6
21.    The revised plan drawn up for user charges in Maharaslitra has all the principle features of
an effective system of cost recovery. It essentially mixes increased user charges with a more
detailed, amenities-based categorization of services. This is depicted by the higher costs of
surgery, with the raise linked to type of hospital room occupied by the patient. Thus the focus of
user charge is on services witlh low cost-effectiveness, and partial in-patient cost recovery rooted in
an ability-to-pay criterion that protects the poor. Charging a nominal fee across the board for
outpatient services, besides contributing to income, will help improve record keeping. Leasing
facilities to the private sector would allow additional resources to be spent on quality
improvements. If administered to full potential, additional user charges from paying beds, surgery
and leasing to the private sector could potentially generate about Rs. 95 million per year; this would
amount to almost 30 percent of required funds to cover recurrent costs at project closure.
Importantly, in addition to supplementing public resources available for health, the plan for cost
recovery also addresses service quality and staff performance by promoting transparency in the
collection system, establishing a link between revenue collection and retention/distribution, and
earmarking these for non-salary expenditures.
Conclusions
22.    User charges should supplement, and not substitute for, an adequate level of funding from
the healtlh budget. Revenues are fungible, i.e. can be used for many purposes and there is no
benefit to public health outcomes if increased revenue collection is simply followed by reductions
in proper funding.
*  Substantial cost recovery is not possible, nor even desirable, because of the high percentage of
poor who use the public health system in Maharashtra; approximately 30 - 35% of the
population lives below the poverty line, and 9% of the state belong to SC or ST.
*  Cost recovery rates should not be pitched at such a level that they induce overservicing by
suppliers and they should not result in reduction in demand for beneficial health services by
clients. Implementation of user charges should concentrate on voluntary services such as
upgraded rooms or wards and on medical services with relatively low cost effectiveness. Rates
should recover a part of the costs of inpatient hospital services from those patients who can
afford to pay, while protecting the poorest sections of society. Furthermore, rates should not
normally exceed rates that are applicable in the private sector.
*  Cost recovery measures should be carefully targeted, including to visible items that the public
clearly recognize as promoting their own health outcomes (for example, drugs) or which are
less cost effective interventions (for example, private hospital rooms).
52



Annex 6
Page 7 of 7
#  Exemptions policy should be clearly stated so as to protect the poor and encourage health
promotive activities. Clarity and simplicity in an exemptions policy also eases costs of
administration and reduces opportunities for corruption.
*  Cost recovery rates must be linked to genuine differences in quality. Raising quality involves
its own costs, for example increasing the nurse to patient ratio, which should be borne in mind
when setting rates. Consideration should also be given to the timing and phasing of cost
recovery measures as clients will be more prepared to make a contribution for services if they
see that service norms, and quality in general, have improved first.
* Payment, and collection, of cost recovery fees should be designed in such a way that they are
simple and not burdensome for patients and administrators alike.
*  There are innovative ways for the public health system to interact with the lprivate sector (e.g.
sharing of facilities) and this has the potential for cost recovery measures. In the longer term,
health insurance is an area worth examining.
*  Revenues obtained, or at least a substantial portion of them, should be retained at the collection
point and then used to directly improve or maintain facilities. Supplementing non-salary
recurrent expenditures (e.g. drugs, consumables, basic maintenance) improves health outcomes
and restores credibility to the public health system. Reviewing collection rates and their
application should be institutionalized.
53



Annex 7
Page 1 of 8
Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement Arrangements
The procurement arrangements to be undertaken by the project will be the responsibility of the
implementing agency, the Public Health Department of the Government of Maharashtra, and in particular
the Project Management Cell (PMC). The PMC will be responsible for all procurement activities either
directly or through the hiring of procurement agents or consultants to assist it. The PMC is being
strengthened through the setting up of a Design and Engineering Unit as a key functional area which will
be responsible for the procurement of civil works. For civil works, procurement will be supervised by a
Superintending Engineer with assistance from a Senior Architect, two Executive Engineers, two Junior
Architects and other supporting staff at the PMC level as well a an engineering wing in each district
deputed to the project from the Public Works Department. This would help to get the procurement of civil
works off to a good start. For the procurement of equipment, instrument and furniture, an Additional
Director Health Systems in charge of the Technical and Biomedical Wing of the PMC will supervise
procurement activities with the support of adequate technical and clerical staff. For all other procurement,
such as medicines, MIS/IEC materials, other supplies, vehicles, consultants and services, the PMC will
directly manage the procurement activities with the assistance of dedicated staff working on procurement
matters.
A. Civil Works. The construction program encompasses the renovation/extension works for
existing 25 District Hospitals, 23 Sub-Divisional Hospitals with 100 beds, 53 Subdivisional Hospitals with
50 beds, 35 existing Community Health Centers which are scattered throughout the state. Also, the
program will cover the renovation/extension works for existing staff quarters and the construction of new
staff quarters, a new building housing the staff of the Public Health Department, 6 equipment maintenance
workshops at the Divisional level and an IEC bureau. The average base cost of civil works, excluding staff
quarters, is US$ 0.64 million for a District Hospital (DH), US$ 0.58 million for each Subdivisional
Hospital (SDH) with 100 beds, US$0.35 million for each Subdivisional hospital (SDH) with 50 beds, US$
0.07 million for a Community Health Center (CHC); US$0.23 million for equipment workshop and IEC
bureau and US$ 2.8 million for the Headquarters building of the PHD.
The scattered number of institutions and the low cost of renovation/extension works will not
attract foreign bidders to participate. Therefore, ICB will not be suitable and NCB will be the appropriate
procedure to be used as it may attract national firms to participate. However, the remote location of some
institutions and the low cost of works of some call for allowing such works to be procured under Force
Account, direct contracting and comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three qualified
contractors eligible under the guidelines. However, Force Account and direct contracting will be limited to
5% and 2% of the civil works costs respectively. Past experience has shown the need in certain cases to
support the NCB with such procedures as indicated above. It is anticipated that most of the DH, SDH with
100 beds and some of the SDH with 50 beds will require prior review estimated to cost Rs 2,000 million or
US$ 43 million representing 27% of total project costs.
B. Equipment. Procurement of equipment would be phased on an annual basis in accordance
with the requirement of the project activities. Phasing of the procurement of equipment will be closely
sequenced with the civil works program. Procurement of large and more expensive equipment that would
be bulked together would be purchased through ICB procedures. These include items such as x-ray
machines, ultra-sound scanners, endoscopes, anesthetic equipment, blood-gas analyzer, etc. Procurement
of other minor equipment expected to be below the US$ 200,000 threshold will be undertaken through
NCB procedures. These include such items as computers, lab supply, glassware, etc. About 21% by value
of all procurement of equipment is expected to be below US$ 30,000, which will be procured through other
methods of procurement.
54



Annex 7
Page 2 of 8
C. Vehicles.  The main types of vehicles to be procured will be jeeps and ambulances.
Procurement methods for vehicles will be ICB, when bulk purchased for packages over US$ 100,000
equivalent. This would comprise about 75% of all vehicles. The remaining vehicles will be procured over
the length of the project period in packages equivalent to US$ 100,000 or less for which the method of
procurement will be national shopping (DGS&D rate contracts are accepitable under national shopping).
Procurement Methods (Table A)
IDA financed works, goods and services will be procured using Bank guidelines of January 1995,
and revised September 1997. The procurement methods applicable to the various expenditure categories
are summarized in the Table A below. For procurement under the project, the Bank's standard bid
documents shall be used.
*  Contracts for civil works estimated to cost over US$ 45,000 equivalent will be carried out
following National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures.
*  Contracts for civil works estimated to cost equivalent of US$ 45,000 or less will be procured
following procedures acceptable to the Association:
(a)    under quotations solicited from at least three qualified contractors;
(b)    by direct contracting; or
(c)    through Force Account as a last resort.
G Contracts for the purchase of goods valued at more than US$ 200,000 equivalent each would be
procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
Contracts valued more than US$ 30,000 but less than US$ 200,000 may be awarded on the basis
of NCB procedures acceptable to IDA. Other items or groups of items valued US$ 30,000
equivalent or less per contract may be procured on the basis of national shopping procedures.
Other items or small groups of items such as supply of furniture, instruments, medicines and
MIS/IEC materials valued at less than US$ 5,000 equivalent per contract may be procured through
direct contracting or national shopping procedures.
*  Contracts for maintenance of buildings and equipment may be awarded througlh:
(a)    Direct Contracting; or
(b)    Force Account.
Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
*  All contracts for goods with an estimated value of more than US$ 200,000I equivalent.
*  All contracts for works with an estimated value of more than US$ 300,000 equivalent.
*  The first two NCB contracts each for goods and works regardless of the value.
*  Consultants' contracts with an estimated value of US$ 100,000 or more for firms and US$
50,000 or more for individuals.
55



Annex 7
Page 3 of 8
Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ Million equivalent*)
Procurement Mlethod
International        National          Other **          rotal
Competitive Bidding    Competitive
Bidding
CIVIL WORKS                                                          63.3               7.0             70.4
Civil Works                                                          (57.0)            (6.3)           (63.3)
GOODS
Furniture                                                             3.1               0.9             4.0
(2.8)            (0.8)            (3.6)
Equipment & Instruments                           10.5                3.9               3.4             17.8
(9.4)              (3.5)             (3.1)           (16.0)
Vehicles                                          2.5                                   0.7             3.2
(2.2)                                (0.6)           (2.8)
Medicines                                                             2.1              (0 5             2.6
(1.8)            (0.5)           (2.3)
Other Supplics                                                        2.7               0.7             3.4
(2.4)            (0.6)           (3.0))
MIS/IEC Materials                                                     1.2               0.3             1.5
0. I)            (0.3)            (1I4)
CONStILTANTS AND SERVICES
Project Preparation and                                                                 9.8             9.8
Implementation                                                                         (9.8)           (9.8)
(including Training, Fellowships
and Workshops)
Institutional Development                                                              11.3             11.3
(including Consultants. Studics.                                                      (11.3)           (11.3)
Professional Services and NOOs)
MIISCELLANEOtIS
Salaries of Additional Staff                                                           16.8             16.8
(10.1)          (10.1)
Operational Expenditures                                                               12.5             12.5
(7.5)           (7.5)
Building Maintenance                                                                    2.0             2.0
(1.2)           (1.2)
Equipment Maintenance                                                                   2.8             2.8
(1.7)           (1.7)
TOTAL                                             13.0               76.3              68.8            158.1
(11.6)             (68.6)            (53.8)          (134.0)
*   Amounts may not add up due to rounding
** "Other" includes Direct Contracting. comparison of price quotations and Force Account.
56



Annex 7
Page 4 of 8
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category    Contract Value (Threshold)    Procurement Method   Contracts Subject to Prior
Review
WORKS                                                                 _
Civil Works       Civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$45,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate
not exceeding US$7.03 million
may be executed by:
(i) direct contracting up to an    Direct Contracting  Post review only
aggregate not exceeding
US$1.40 million; or
(ii) on the basis of comparison    Solicitation of Three    Post review only
of price quotations obtained  Bids
from at least three qualified
contractors eligible under the
guidelines; or
(iii) by Force Account as a last   Force Account   Post review only
resort up to an aggregate not
exceeding US$3.50 million in a
manner satisfactory to the
Association.
Civil works estimated to cost the  National Competitive   First two works contracts
equivalent of over US$45,000  Bidding              and all contracts above
per contract up to an aggregate                    US$300,000 by prior
not exceeding US$63.32 million.                    review in accordance with
paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. All others by
post review.
2.  GOODS
(a) Furniture,    US$30,000 or less per contract,   National Shopping  Post review only
equipment,        up to an aggregate not        Procedures (includes
instruments,      exceeding US$5.54 million     DGS&D Rate
medicines, MIS &   equivalent.                  Contracts)
IEC materials and
other supplies                                  National Competitive   First two contracts valued
More than US$30,000 per      Bidding               at more than US$ 30, 000
contract, up to an aggregate not                   but upto US$200,000
exceeding US$13.01 million                         eqluivalent each and
equivalent.                                        contracts valued at more
than US$ 200,000 each by
prior review in
accordance with
paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. All others by
_ ost review.
57



Annex 7
Page 5 of 8
Expenditure Category    Contract Value (Threshold)    Procurement Method   Contracts Subject to Prior
Review
Over US$200,000 equivalent per  International       Contracts valued at more
contract.                     Competitive Bidding   than US$200,000
equivalent each by prior
review in accordance with
paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix I to the
Guidelines.
Less than US$5,000 per contract  Direct contracting or   Post review only.
up to an aggregate not        national shopping
exceeding US$0.28 million.    procedures
(b) Vehicles      US$ 100,000 equivalent or less    National shopping  Post review only.
per contract up to an aggregate  procedures (includes
not exceeding US$0.70 million.   DGS&D rate contracts
also)
More than US$100,000
equivalent per contract up to an  International     Prior review in
aggregate not exceeding       Competitive Bidding    accordance with Paras. 2
US$2.47 million.                                    & 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines.
3.  SERVICES
(a) Contracts     Up to an aggregate not        Quality and Cost       Prior review of all
estimated to cost   exceeding                    based Selection       consultant contracts shall
more than         US$2.12 million.              (QCBS)                 be governed by the
US$200,000                                                            provisions of paragraphs
(i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) below:
(b) Studies,      US$200,000 or less per contract,  QCBS with Short List  (i) With respect to each
Training &        up to an aggregate not        (could comprise of    contract for the
Workshop,         exceeding                     domestic firms only if  employment of consulting
Fellowship,       US$6.34 million.              foreign consultants are  firms estimated to cost the
Consultants,                                    not interested.)      equivalent of US$200,000
Procurement                                                           or more, the procedures
Agents,                                                               set forth in paragraphs 1,2
Professional                                                          lother than the third sub-
Services Contracts                                                    paragraph of paragraph
or other contracts                                                    2(a)] and 5 of Appendix I
equivalent of                                                         to the Consultant
US$100,000 or                                                         Guidelines shall apply.
more up to
US$200,000
equivalent
58



Annex 7
Page 6 of 8
Expenditure Category    Contract Value (Threshold)   Procurement Method       Contracts Subject to
Prior Review
(c) NGO Services   US$l 00,000 or less per     (i) QCBS with Short    (ii) With respect to each
and other          contract, up to an aggregate   List (could comprise of  contract for the
consultancy        not exceeding US$12.68      domestic firms only if   employment of consulting
contracts          million.                    foreign constiltants are   firms estimated to cost
not interested.)       the equivalent of
US$100,000 or more, but
(ii) Single Source      less than the equivalent of
Selection - (acceptable    US$200,000, the
for tasks repiresenting a  procedures set forth in
natural continuation of  paragraphs 1,2 lother
assignment, when rapid  than the second sub-
selection essential, for    paragraph of paragraph
very small assignments,  2(a)] and 5 of Appendix I
or when only one firm    to the Consultant
is qualified.           Guidelines shall apply.
(iiii) With respect to each
contract for the
employment of individual
consultants estimated to
cost the equivalent of
US$50,000 or more, the
qualifications, experience,
terms of reference and
terms of employment of
thie consultants shall be
furnished to the
Association for its prior
review and approval.
The contract shall be
awarded only after the
said approval shall have
been given.
All other cases: Post
Review
Disbursement Arrangemnents
Allocation of loan proceeds
The allocation of loan proceeds is shown in Table C, Annex 7. Table A, Annex 7 summarizes the
project items, their related cost estimates and proposed methods of procurement. Table B, Annex 7
summarizes the threshold for procurement methods and prior review. Project-related procurement of
goods and works would follow procedures acceptable to IDA using International Competitive Bidding
(ICB), National Competitive Bidding (NCB) documents and National Shopping (NS) procedures
acceptable to the Association. Project-financed consultants would be recruiited according to Guidelines on
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers. Procurement of equipment, vehicles, and goods would
be bulked to the extent possible and would generally be procured as follows: (a) individual contracts
59



Annex 7
Page 7 of 8
estimated to exceed US$ 200,000 would be procured using ICB (although there are no plans at present for
individual purchases greater than US$ 200,000); (b) individual contracts with an estimated value between
US$ 30,000 and US$ 200,000 would be procured using NCB; and (c) individual purchases of off-the-shelf
items through rate contracts or prudent shopping procedures would be acceptable in packages of less than
US$ 30,000 up to the aggregate limits as outlined in the procurement tables.
Disbursements on the basis of statements of expenditure are: (a) incremental operating costs; (b)
consultants' services under contracts not exceeding US$ 100,000 equivalent in the case of firms and US$
50,000 equivalent in the case of individuals; (c) contracts for goods not exceeding US$ 200,000 equivalent
each; (d) contracts for vehicles not exceeding US$ 100,000 equivalent each. Given the large size of the
Credit and the disbursement period (72 months), a special account of US$ 8 million equivalent will be
used; and (e) contracts for works not exceeding US$ 300,000 equivalent each.
Retroactive Financing
Retroactive financing, effective after March 31, 1998, would be provided for expenditures whichi
follow the standard features of eligibility. This would include eligible project related expenditures;
procurement following standard Bank guidelines; and activities accepted as consistent with appraised
standards. The government identified the following items for which they would claim retroactive financing
amounting to about US$1.36 million equivalent (1% of the proposed Credit): preparation activities
including facilities and equipment surveys, preparation of procurement documents and model plans,
studies, information technology equipment, vehicles and related operational expenditures.
Financial Management System and Auditing Arrangements
The current financial management reporting system is weak and not well developed, and focuses
more on book-keeping and expenditure control. Staff are not trained in the area of a management
accounting system that produces costing and management accounting information in a timely manner for
sound managerial decision making. A Finance and Audit Wing has been set up under the project, and as a
Condition of Negotiations the head of this Wing has been designated to pay early attention to these issues.
Initially, because of the need to develop institutional capacity, the project will use existing disbursement
mechanisms until it achieves the Loan Administration and Change Initiative (LACI) compliance capability.
Understanding was reached withi GOM that it would develop and implement a financial system
not later than December 3 1, 1999. After the development and implementation of the financial
management system, GOM would take the necessary steps to enable conversion of the
disbursements to the new Project Management Report (PMR) based disbursements as soon as
possible. The PMC will design, develop and maintain a computerized Project Financial Management
System capable of providing timely and reliable information to PHD and project management staff to
monitor the project's progress towards it agreed objectives based on the following guidelines: (a) a separate
budget head with appropriate sub-heads would be created under the Annual Budget document of GOM to
capture all project related expenditures; (b) the accounting system would reflect component-wise and
category-wise expenditures, produce financial reports that show actual versus budgeted expenditures for
the current period and to date, and provide costing information. It would also capture information
regarding the method of procurement so that the limits of procurement laid down in the Procurement
Schedule in the Project Agreement are properly monitored; and (c) the Project Financial Management
System will map the financial data with the physical data for measuring the performance of the project.
PMC will prepare and furnish to the Bank a project financial report on a quarterly basis.
Project Financial Statements so compiled would be audited annually in accordance with standards
of auditing acceptable to the Bank by an independent auditor The audit of project accounts would include
an assessment of the adequacy of accounting and internal control systems, ability to maintain adequate
documentation for transactions, and eligibility of expenditures for Bank financing. The audited Project
Financial Statements including a summary of Statement of Expenditure disbursements together with
60



Annex 7
Page 8 of 8
auditor's opinion on it would be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the close of each
fiscal year. The audit report on Special Account (SA) maintained by the Department of Economic Affairs
would include a summary of SA transactions and the closing balance held by the Reserve Bank of India.
The audit report on SA would be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the close of each
fiscal year.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category             Amount in UIS$      IDA Financing Percentage
Million
Civil Works                                    63.32                    90%
Furniture, Equipment, Vehicles and             29.17         100% of foreign expenditures,
Supplies                                                     100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost); 80% of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Includes:
US$2.29 Medicines
US$3.60 Furniture
USS16.02 Medical and Otlher Equipment
US$3.03 Otlier Supplies
US$2.84 Velhicles
US$1.39 MIS/IEC Materials
Training, Workshops (IDA funded),              21.14                    100%
Studies,
Consultants and Professional Services
Includes:
USS11.32 Professional Services, Studies,
Consultants
US$9.82 Training, Fellowslhips, Workshops
Incremental Operating and Maintenance          20.21
Costs                                                        80% of locall expenditures
incurred until March 31, 2001;
Includes:                                                    55% of expenditures incurred
US$10.08 Salaries of Incremental Staff                       from April 1, 2001 until March
USS7.24 OperationalExpenses                                 31, 2003; and 25% of
US$1.15 Building Maintenance                                 expenditures incurred
US$1.74 Equipment Maintenance                                thereafter.
TOTAL         134.0
61



Annex 8
Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned              Actual
Pre-appraisal                                     100.8                100.8
Appraisal                                         177.1                177.1
Negotiations                                       10.6                 10.6
B. Project Schedule                              Planned              Actual
Time taken to prepare the project                  26                   26
First Bank mission (identification)              2/28/97              2/28/97
Appraisal mission departure                      6/12/98              7/15/98
Negotiations                                     10/19/98             10/26/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  March 1999
Prepared by: Public Health Department, Government of Maharashtra
Preparation assistance: Consultants funded by project preparation funds were David Porter
(Health Systems and Equipment Specialist); Christine Giles (Health Care Management
Specialist); Alaka Singh (Economist), Subash Chakravarty (Architect); and Roger Willey and
Sanjeev Aggarval (Health Care Waste Management Specialists).
Bank staff who worked on the project included: Tawhid Nawaz (Senior Economist, Team
Leader); Shreelata Rao-Seshadri (Social Development Specialist); Salim Habayeb (Principal
Public Health Specialist); Ian Anderson (Senior Economist); Maj-Lis Voss (Economist); Raj
Kumar, Preeti Kudesia (Public Health Specialists); Hiroko Imamura (Senior Counsel); Mam
Chand (Procurement Specialist); Sanjay Vani, Krishnaswami Radhakrishnan, Rajat Narula
(Financial Analysts); and Lydia Maningas and Nina Anand (Staff Assistants). Peer Reviewers
were Robert Hecht and Eva Jarawan. The Sector Manager for Health, Nutrition and Population
Unit in the South Asia Region is Richard Skolnik.
62



Annex 9
Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
Directorate of Health Services and Public Health.Department, Government of Maharaslhtra, April
1998. Maharashtra Health System Development Project. Muilbai.
July 1998. Maharashtra Health System Developmenit Project. Mumbai.
, July 28, 1998. Maharaslitra Health System Development Project. Mumbai.
, October 12, 1998. Maharashtra Health System Development Project. Mumbai.
Public Health Department, Government of Maharashtra, 1996. Health Status: Maharaslhtra State.
Mumbai.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
IDA: Third State Health Systems Development Project. Project Concept Document. February
1997.
IDA Idenitification/Preparation Mission: Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project.
Aide-Memoire, July 1997.
IDA: Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project. Project Information Document.
November 1997.
IDA Preparation/Appraisal Mission: Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project. Aide-
Memoire, June 1998.
IDA Appraisal Mission: Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project. Aide-Memoire,
July 1998.
Nawaz T., Rao-Seshadri, S., and Hinchliffe, K, May 1995. India: Policy and Finance Strategies
for Strengthening Primary Health Care Services. World Bank, Washington
Nawaz T., Rao-Seshadri, S., and Hinchliffe, K, February 199 J. New Directions in Health Sector
Development at the State Level: An Operational Perspective. World Bank, Washington.
C. Other
Deutsche Geselischaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ), June 1998. ]Plan of Operations
for the Basic Health Programme, Maharashtra. Pune.
63



Annex 10
Page I of 4
STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS
Status of Bank Group Operations in India
Operations Portfolio
(As of October 29, 1998)
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions          and actual
Fiscal                                                                                         dcisbursements a/
Project ID    Year            Borrower                Purpose
IBRD      IDA    Cancel-  Undis-  Original  Form
lations  bursed               Revised
Number of Closed Projects: 322
Active Projects
IN-PE-10496     1998   GOI                      ORISSA HEALTH SYS          0.00    76.40      0.00    77.81        0.00     0.00
IN-PE-10561     1998   GOI                      NATL AGR TECHNOLOGY       96.80   100.00      0.00   197.90        0.00     0.00
IN-PE-35160     1998   GOI                      HARYANA POWER APL-I       60.00      0.00     0.00    53.01        5.00     0.00
IN-PE-35169    1998   GOVERNMENT OF INDIA   U.P. FORESTRY                  0.00    52.94      0.00    48.75        -.33     0.00
IN-PE-35824     1998   GOVERNMENT OF INDIA   UP DIV AGRC SUPPORT          79.90    50.00      0.00   130.86        0.00     0.00
IN-PE-35827     1998   GOI                      WOMEN & CHILD              0.00   300.00      0.00   304.80        0.00     0.00
DEVLPM
IN-PE-38021     1998   GOI                      OPEP III (BIHAR)           S.00   152.00      0.00   147.31        7.78     0.00
IN-PE-49385     1998   GOVERNMENT OF INDIA   AP ECON                     301.30   241.90      0.00   547.06        0.00     0.00
RESTRUCTURIN
IN-PE-49477     1998   GOVERNHENT OF INDIA   KERALA FORESTRY               0.00    39.00      0.00    39.45        0.00     0.00
IN-PE-50638     1998                            UP BASIC ED II             0.00    59.40      0.00    46.97       -2.13     0.00
IN-PE-9979      1998   CIL                      COAL SECTOR REHAB        530.00      2.00     0.00   515.00       15,88     0.00
IN-PE-10473    1997                             TUBERCULOSIS               0.00   142.40      0.00   129.88       32.69     0.00
CONTROL
IN-PE-10511     1997   GOI                      MALARIA CONTROL            0.00   164.80      0.00   157.29        9.93     0.00
IN-PE-10531     1997   GOI                      REPRODUCTIVE               0,00   248.30      0.00   238.82       27.48     0.00
HEALTH1
IN-PE-35158     1997   GOI                      AP IRRIGATION III        175.00   150.00      0.00   262.02       11.20     0.00
IN-PE-36062    1997   GOI                       ECODEVELOPMENT             0.00    28.00      0.00    23.34         .81     0.00
IN-PE-43728     1997   GOI                      ENV CAPACITY BLDG          0.00    50.00      0.00    44.45        5.84     0.00
TA
IN-PE-44449    1997                             RURAL WOMEN'S DEV          0.00    19.50      0.00    18.49        5.36     0.00
IN-PE-45600     1997   GOI                      TA ST'S RD INFRA          51.50      0.00     0.00    40.27       13.77     0.00
DEV
IN-PE-49301     1997   GOI                      A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE       50.00   100.00      0.00   137.55       31.20     0.00
IN-PE-9995      1997   GOI                      STATE HIGHWAYS           350.00     0.00      0.00   335.31       13.31     0.00
I(AP)
IN-PE-10480     1996   GOVT OF INDIA            B SEWAGE DISPOSAL        167.00    25.00      0.00   130.02       72.26     0.00
IN-PE-10484     1996   GOI                      UP RURAL WATER            59.60     0.00      0.00    53.79        5.38     0.00
IN-PE-10485    1996   GOVT OF INDIA             HYDROLOGY PROJECT          0.00   142.00      0.00   106.37       39.64     0.00
IN-PE-10529     1996   GOI                      ORISSA WRCP                0.00   290.90      0.00   181.25       -8.26     0.00
IN-PE-35170     1996   GOI                      ORISSA POWER SECTOR   350.00        0.00      0.00   332.67       50.17     0.00
IN-PE-35821    1996   GOI                       DISTRICT PRIM EDUC         0.00   425.20      0.00   355.32       23.09     0.00
2
IN-PE-35825    1996   GOI                       STATE HEALTH SYS II        0.00   350.00      0.00   290.75       71.11     0.00
IN-PE-39935     1996   IL4FS                    ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE    200.00        5.00     0.00   179.66       71.00     0.00
IN-PE-43310     1996   GO                       COAL ENV&SOCIAL           0.00    63.00      0.00    52.00       10.20     0.00
MIT.
IN-PE-10461     1995   GOI                      MADRAS WATER SUP II   275.80         0.00   189.30    64.87      127.13     5.79
IN-PE-10463    1995   GOI                       INDUS POLLUTION          143.00    25.00      0.00   147.14       63.70     0.00
PREV
IN-PE-10464     1995   GOI                      DISTRICT PRIMARY ED        0.00   260.30      0.00   146.25       27.44     0.00
IN-PE-10476     1995   GOI                      TAMIL NADU WRCP            0.00   282.90      0.00   232.86       99.13     0.00
IN-PE-10489     1995   GOVERNMENT OF INDIA   AP 1ST REF. HEALTH            0.00   133.00      0.00    86.21       18.08     0.00
S
IN-PE-10503     1995                            AGRIC HUMAN RES            0.00    59.50      0.00    38.85       26.70     0.00
DEVT
IN-PE-10506     1995   GOI                      H  FORESTRY                0.00    58.00      0.00    28.03        7.12     0.00
IN-PE-10522     1995   GOI.                     ASSAM RURAL INFRA          0,00   126.00      0.00   105.47       37.24     0.00
IN-PE-10563     1995   GOVT OF INDIA            FINANCIAL SECTOR         700.00     0.00   200.00   326.80    -173.20       0.00
DEV
IN-PE-10448     1994   GOT                      FORESTRY RESEARCH          0.00    47.00      0.00    25.98       36.52     1.66
ED
IN-PE-10449    1994   GOI                       ANDHRA PRADESH             0.00    77.40      0.00    35.21       14.02     0.00
FORESTRY
IN-PE-10455     1994   GOI                      BLINDNESS CONTROL          0.00   117.80      0.00    90.66       34.79     0.00
IN-PE-10457    1994   GO                       POPULATION IX              0.00    88.60      0.00    55.92       14.74     0.00
IN-PE-34162     1994                            MAHARASHTRA                0.00   246.00    29.19    13.66        38.98     9.65
EARTIQUA
64



Annex 10
Pagc 2 of 4
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in USS Millions           and actual
Fiscal                                                                                            disbursements a/
Project ID    Year            Borrower                 Purpose
IBRD      IDk    Cancel-   Undis-  Original  Form
lations   bursed              Revised
IN-PE-9870       1994   GOVT. OF INDIA           CONTAINER TRANSPORT        94.00     0.00      0.00    81.02       71.03      0.00
IN-PE-9964       1994   GOI                      WATER RES CONSOLID          0.00   258 00      0.00   160.66       70.86      0.00
H
IN-PE-10407      1993   GOI                      ADP - RAJASTHAN             0.00   106.00      0.00    34.52       28.12      0.00
IN-PE-10408      1993   GOI                       BIHAR PLATEAU              0.00   117.00      0.00    71.59       77.19      0.00
IN-PS-10410      1993   GOI                       RENEWABLE RESOURCES       75.00   115. 00     0.00    76.18       98.46      0.00
IN-PE-10416      1993                             PGC POWER SYSTEM         350.00     0 00      0.00   120.00      102.06      0.00
IN-PE-10418      1993   GOI                      KARNATAKA WS 4              0.00    92.00      0.00    515.98      51.44      0.00
ENV/S
IN-PE-10423      1993   NTPC                      NTPC POWER               400.00     0.00      0.00    75.81       72.55      0.00
GENERATIO
IN-PE-10424      1993   GOI                      NATL LEPROSY                0.00    85.00      9.07    35.69       38.49      5.38
ELIMINA
IN-PE-9955       1993   GOI                      UTTAR PRADESH BASIC         0.00   165.00      0.00    3!9.08      -1.71         -
125. 23
IN-PE-9959       1993   GOI                      RUBBER                      0.00    92.00    36.58    27.39        56.02      6.82
IN-PE-9961       1993   GOI                      UP SODIC LANDS              0.00    54.70      0.00    21.98       12.57      0.00
RECLA
IN-PE-9977       1993   GOI                       ICDS II (BIHAR C           0.00   194.00      0.00   14:3.05      90.99    97.46
MPp)
IN-PE-10390      1992                            MAHARASHTRA                 0.00   124.00    16.18    47.14        62.03    41.36
FORESTRY _
IN-PE-10393      1992   GOVT OF INDIA            AIDS PREVENTION AND         0.00    84.00      0.00    13.11       13.46      0.00
IN-PE-9921       1992   GOI C STATES              SHRIMP & FISH              0.00    85.00    48.51    113.39       65.12    13.81
CULTUR
IN-PE-9946       1992   GOI                      NAT. HIGHWAYS II         153.00   153.00       0.00   177.39       83.26      0.00
IN-PE-9963       1992   GOI                      POPULATION VIII             0.00    79.00      0.00    6:1.63      51.07      0.00
IN-PE-9877       1991   GOI                      DAM SAFETY                23.00   130.00    50.03    50.01         98.05    10.02
IN-PE-9906       1991   GOI                       IND POLLUTION           124.00    31.60       0.00    20.03       10.72      0.00
CONTRO
IN-PE-9958       1991      GOVT OF TAMIL NADU  AGR.DEV.I (TN)              20.00    92.80       0.00    25.68       24.90      0.00
IN-PE-9988       1991   GOI                      TECH EDUC II                0.00   307.10    51.37    94.96       144.89    49.25
IN-PE-9860       1990   GOI                      WTRSH PLAINS                7.00    55.00      7.00     8.59       10.34      3.34
IN-PE-9882       1990   GOI                      WTRSH HILLS                13.00    75.00    13.00    2:1.36       29.60    16.60
IN-PE-9982       1990   GOI                      NOR REG TRANSM           485.00      0.00      0.00   194.40      194.39      0.00
IN-PE-9869       1989   GOI                      NATHPA JHAKRI HYDRO    485.00        0.00      0.00   140.34      140.33      0.00
IN-PE-9941       1989   GOI                      MAHARASHTRA POWER        400.00      0.00    62.67    36.66        99.34    24.87
IN-PE-9990       1989   GOVT OF INDIA            VOCATIONAL TRAINING       30.00   250.00   146.15    11;.86       157.70      6.70
Total                                                                    6,248.9  7,544.    859.05  8,446.    2,838.04   167.48
0       44                 58
Active Prolects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                4,320.96           31,693.54           36,014.50
of which has been repaid:                 202.63            9,919.63            10,122.26
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               12,731.61           21,147.21           331,878.82
Amount sold                                        0.00              133.77               133.77
Of which repaid               :                 0.00              133.77              133.77
Total Undisbursed                :             8,446.58               80.28            E,526.86
a. Intended disbursements to date manus actual dlisbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
65



Annex 10
Page 3 of 4
India
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Sep-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1964/75/79/90          MUSCO                   0.00    1.08    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.08    0.00    0.00
1978/87/91/93          HDFC                   40.00    2.29    0.00    0.00   40.00    2.29    0.00    0.00
1981                  Nagarjuna Steel          0.00     .07    0.00    0.00    0.00     .07    0.00    0.00
1981/86/81/91/93/96   ITW Signode              0.00    1.55    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.55    0.00    0.00
1981/86/89/94/92       TISCO                   3.47   15.37    0.00    0.00    3.47   15.37    0.00    0.00
1981/90/93             M&M                     .50    6.49    0.00    2.00      .50    6.49    0.00    2.00
1984/90/94            India Lease              .66      .86    0.00    0.00     .66     .86    0.00    0.00
1984/91               Bihar Sponge            13.39     .68    0.00    0.00   13.39     .68    0.00    0.00
1986                  EXB-Citv Mills           .48    0.00    0.00    0.00      .48    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986                  EXB-CECL              -  .01    0.00    0.00    0.00      .01    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986                  EXB-NB Footwear          .19    0.00    0.00    0.00      .19    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986                  EXB-STG                   .37    0.00    0.00    0.00     .37    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986                  EXB-TAN                  .03    0.00    0.00    0.00      .03    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986/92/93/94         GESCO                    0.00   11.80    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.80    0.00    0.00
1986/93/94/95         India Equipment          .43      .77    0.00    1.07     .43     .77    0.00    1.07
1987                  Hindustan                5.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.23    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/88/90/93         Titan Watches            .96    1.03    0.00    0.00      .96    1.03    0.00    0.00
1988/90/92            Tata Telecom            0.00      .10    0.00    0.00    0.00     .10    0.00    0.00
1988/94               GKN Invel               0.00    1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.40    0.00    0.00
1989                  AEC                     11.82    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.82    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  UCAL                     0.00     .63    0.00    0.00    0.00     .63    0.00    0.00
1989/90/94            Tata Electric           29.64    0.00    0.00    0.00   29.64    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/91               Gujarat State           6.94    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.94    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/95               JSB India               0.00    1.21    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.21    0.00    0.00
1990                  HOEL                     0.00     .28    0.00    0.00    0.00     .28    0.00    0.00
1990                  TDICI-VECAUS 11          0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00
1990/92               CESC                   43.36    0.00    0.00   60.30   43.36    0.00    0.00   60.30
1990/93/94            IL&FS                  21.00    3.11    1.81    7.00   21.00    3.11    1.81    7.00
1990/94               ICICI-IFGL               0.00     .30    0.00    0.00    0.00     .30    0.00    0.00
1990/95               ICICI-SPIC Fine         0.00    1.88    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.88    0.00    0.00
1991                  BSES                    17.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   17.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991/93               Triveni                 0.00    1.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.11    0.00    0.00
1991/96               VARUN                   0.00    1.35    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.35    0.00    0.00
1992                  Indus VC Mgt Co         0.00      .01    0.00    0.00    0.00     .01    0.00    0.00
1992                  Indus VCF               0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
1992                  Info Tech Fund           0.00     .64    0.00    0.00    0.00     .64    0.00    0.00
1992                  SKF Bearings            3.82    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.82    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/93               Arvind Mills             0.00   17.10    0.00    0.00    0.00   17.10    0.00    0.00
1992/94/97            Ispat Industries        78.31    5.77    0.00   85.00   38.45    5.77    0.00    0.00
1992/95               IL&FS Venture           0.00    1.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.05    0.00    0.00
1992/96/97            NICCO-UCO               6.50      .50    0.00    0.00    2.50     .50    0.00    0.00
1993/94/96            Indo Rarna              19.68   11.98    0.00    7.87   19.68   11.98    0.00    7.87
1993/97               20TH Century            14.47     .80    0.00    2.13   14.47     .80    0.00    2.13
1994                  Centurion Growth        0.00    2.39    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.39    0.00    0.00
1994                  Chowgule                13.42    4.58    0.00   21.09   13.42    4.58    0.00   21.09
1994                  Crdcap Asset Mgt        0.00      .32    0.00    0.00    0.00     .32    0.00    0.00
1994                  DLF Cement              8.80    4.94    0.00   12.75    8.80    4.94    0.00   12.75
66



Annex 10
Page 4 of 4
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval            Company         Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1994                  Gujarat Ambuja         0.00    8.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.23    0.00    0.00
1994                  Taurus Starshare       0.00    7.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.17    0.00    0.00
1994/97               GVK                   39.17    8.30    0.00   37.26   29. 17    7.45    0.00   37.26
1994/98               Global Trust            5.00    3.19    5.00    0.00    0.00    3.19    0.00    0.00
1995                  Centurion Bank         0.00    3.87    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.87    0.00    0.00
1995                  EXIMBANK               20.46    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.46    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  GE Capital             11.25    5.00    0.00    0.00   11.25    4.39    0.00    0.00
1995                  Prism Cement           15.00    5.02    0.00   13.50   15.00    5.02    0.00   13.50
1995                  Rain Calcining         19.25    5.47    0.00    0.00   19.25    5.46    0.00    0.00
1995                  Sara Fund               0.00    6.12    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.60    0.00    0.00
1995/98               RPG Communicatns        0.00   11.25    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.25    0.00    0.00
1996                  CVF Oil Gas-AL          8.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  India Direct Fnd       0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.39    0.00    0.00
1996                  Indus II               0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  Indus Mauritius        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  Moser Baer           - 5.70      .60    0.00    0.00    5.70    .60    0.00    0.00
1996                  United Riceland        10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  Asian Electronic       0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00
1997                  CEAT                  20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  Duncan Hospital        7.00      .84    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  EEPL                   0.00      .03    0.00    0.00    0.00    .03    0.00    0.00
1997                  Owens Coming          25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  SAPL                   0.00     .07    0.00    0.00    0.00    .07    0.00    0.00
1997                  SR.EI                  15.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    3.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  Walden-Mgt India       0.00      .01    0.00    0.00    0.00    .01    0.00    0.00
1997                  WIV                    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    .88    0.00    0.00
1998                  IDFC                   0.00   15.46    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.46    0.00    0.00
1998                  TCW/ICICI              0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                 541.81  230.48    6.81  249.97  438.95  197.42    1.81  164.97
Approvals Pending Comrnitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1996                  CESC II -BLINC         0.00    0.00    0.00   37.00
1998                  IL&FS (III)-RI         0.00    0.00    3.11    0.00
1998                  IVCAAF                 0.00    5.74    0.00    0.00
1995                  SPIC-RGHTS ISSUE       0.00     .86    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00    6.60    3.11   37.00
67



Annex I I
Page I of 2
India at a glance                                                               9115/98
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              South      Low-   i
India      Asia  income        Development diamond
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                       960.9     1,289     2,048                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                     390        390       350
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                       375        502       722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                         1.7       1.9        2.1
Labor force (%)                                         2.0       2.2        2.3     GNP                              Gross
per                  -         primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                                capita                       enrolrment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)   36
Urban population (% of total population)                27         27        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        62         62        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                63         71        78
Child malnutrition (I% of children under 5)             66         63        61                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (I% of population)                 81         77        71
Illiteracy (I% of population age 15+)                   48         51        47
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   _    100   99        91         -India  -      Low-incomegroup
Male                                                 110        109       100
Female                                                90         89        81    .
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986       1996      1997
Economic ratios'
GOP (US$ billions)                           95 0    229.1      359.7      380.5
Gross domestic investmentlGOP                20.9      23.2      25.2       24.0                    T
Exports of goods and services/GOP             7.2      6.0       11.8       11.5                     rade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   21.7      20.4      21.9       20.2
Gross nabonal savings/GOP                    22.2      20.8      23.9       22.3
Current account balance/GDP                   1.4      -2.6      -1.4       -1.8     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                         0.3       0.7       1.1        0.9     Dmsti    _             -    Investment
Total debt/GOP                               15.2      21.0      26.0       24.8
Total debt servicelexpons                    15.3      32.0      24.3       20.6
Present value of debt/GDP                                        19.6
Present value of debttexpons                    -               135.6
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97     1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  4.4      5.7       7.4       4.9                    -          
GNP per capita                       2.1      3.8       5.7       3.5                       Ind/a       Low-icome group
Exports of goods and services        3.4     11.8      10.1       3.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996       1997      Growth rates of output and investment(%)
(% of GOP)
Agriculture                                  38.5      31.7      27.0       25.3    4 -
Industry                                     25.0     28.4       30.0      30.1    20 -
Manufacturing                               17.1     17. S      19.4      19.5     10 -
Services                                     36.5     39.9       43 0      44 6       0
-15    9    93  9w95    96   97
Pnvate consumption                           68.6     67.8       67.8      69,8    -20
General government consumption                9.7      11.8      10.3       10.0
Imports of goods and services                 6.4       8.7      15.1       15.2                    GD         *  GDP
197646  1987-97       1996       1997     Growth rates of exports and imports Ih)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   2.6       3.1       7.9       -1 5     0 T
Industry                                      5.3      6.7        6.4        5 5    30 -
Manufacturing                                5.5      7.0        7.4       5.8    20
Services                                      5.4      7.2        8.1        8.9    10
Private consumption                           4.7       5.1       8.2        8.5     0       E /             59
General govemment consumption                 6.9       3.5       5.1        0.3            92   9
Gross domestic investment                     4.2       7.3      -0.6       -0.7   -20 -
Imports of goods and services                 8.7       7.4      -5.4        9.0                  Expons          lmponrs
Gross national product                        4.3       5.7       7.5        5.2
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.                                          68



Annex I I
Page 2 of 2
India
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              '1976     1986       1996      1997      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                            20
Consumer prices                                  ..      8.7        9.3       6 8     l5<
Implicit GDP deflator                          5 9       6.5       6 3        5.6     0                       _
Govemment finance                                                                     5
('/ of GOP, includes currenf grants)                                                  D
Current revenue                                 ..    25.2        23 4      24.0             92   33   94   95   9s   97
Current budget balance                                   1 7        0.6       0.7             -GOP deflator 7CI
Overall surplus/deficit                           .     13.3       9.3        9.9                   GDP defla_ __r  CP       _
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1976     1986       1996      1997      Export and import levels (IJSS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                   9.738     33,469    34.700      s0.0co .
Tea                                             .     451        279       405      50 C 
Iron                                           ..     428        483       474                                       * 0
Manufactures                                    .   6,458     25,490    26,168
Total bmports (cif)                          5,390 _ 17,740     48,063    30,240      0 .0.  
Food                                            ,    1,068      1.477     1,567     2            *         1    * d
Fuel and energy                                 .   2,187     10,036     7,595       000   S    92  93
Capital goods                                  ..   5,074      7,735     6,743
.1  92  93  94  95  95  97
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..      95         97        92
Import price index (1995=100)                    .       75        112       110                aExports      *Imocrs
Terms of trade (1995=100)                               127         87        84         _
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ mifions)                                1976     1986       1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio I%)
Exports of goods and services                6.800   13,637     41.732    44,102      0-
Imports of goods and services                6,080   19,962     55,696    59,236
Resource balance                               720   -6,325    -13,964   -15,134
Net income                                     -98   -2.045     -3.584    -3,389
Net current transfers                          692    2.327     12,367    11.830
Current account balance                      1.314   -6,043     -5,181    -6,693     -2
Financing items (net)                       .1,314    5,971        -46     3.097
Changes in net reserves                          0       72      5,227     3,596     -3-
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)           .   7,200      26,718    29,651
Conversion rate (DEC, locat/USS)               8 9      12.8      35.5      37.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS                                                              ________
1976     1986       1996      1997
(USS millions)                                                                        Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        14,471   48,124     93,431    94,404
IBRD                                        456    3,475       8,768     8,138                 G.6,977   A 8t138
IDA                                        3,333   10,529     17,616    17,912
Total debt service                           1,178    5,273     12,669    11,257
IBRD                                         88       469      1,514     1.410                                     6 17912
IDA                                          30       152       365       381
Composition of net resource flows                                                    F 31.503
Official grants                               ..      403       410        351              .            _           C 684
Official creditors                         1,058    1,404       -200     3,395                         _6
Private creditors                            -14    2,793      -558    -2,042                                      D 3 .60
Foreign direct investment                      ..     208      2,696     3,197
Portfolio equity                              .,        0      3,312     1,828
E 25 450
World Bank program
Commitments                                 315    1,790       1.725     2.094     A . IBRO                      6- Blateral
Disbursements                               610    1,297       1,592     1,337     8 -IDA    D- Other multilateral   F- Prwate
Principal repayments                         66       235      1,074     1.071     C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Netflows                                    544    1.062        518       267       _-
Interest payments                            52       388        804      721
Net transfers                               492       676       -287      -455
Development Economics                                                                                                   9115/98
69



