Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3149 IN
Project Agreement
(Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
Dated January 14, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3149 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 14, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and STATE OF MAHARASHTRA, acting by its Governor (Maharashtra).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated October 17, 1998 from 
Maharashtra, describing a program of objectives, policies and actions to improve the 
primary and secondary levels of health care (the Maharashtra Health Sector Development 
Program) and declaring its commitment to carry out such Program;
(B)
by the agreement of even date herewith between India (the Borrower) and 
the Association (the Development Credit Agreement), the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to ninety-seven 
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 97,900,000) on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
Maharashtra agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set 
forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS Maharashtra, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Maharashtra declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and health 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Maharashtra shall otherwise agree, Maharashtra shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Maharashtra shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Maharashtra shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of 
the Credit.
(b)
Maharashtra shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Maharashtra of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, Maharashtra shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and 
Maharashtra, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Maharashtra on said plan.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Maharashtra shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
Maharashtra shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Page  3
Section for 
each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such Fiscal 
Year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts as well as the audit thereof, as the Association 
shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Maharashtra thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify Maharashtra of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Maharashtra:
Chief Secretary to the
  Government of Maharashtra
Page  4
Mumbai, India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Maharashtra 
may be taken or executed by its Health Secretary or such other person or persons as 
Maharashtra shall designate in writing, and Maharashtra shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
By /s/ N. B. Patil
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and 
September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section 
I.  
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and "member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and "Participating Country.”
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, (i) contracts for goods (except vehicles) shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each and\0b(ii) 
Page  5
contracts for vehicles shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 
equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Civil Works
(a)
Civil works estimated to cost $45,000 equivalent or more per contract 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Civil works estimated to cost less than $45,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $7,000,000 equivalent, may:
(i)
with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, up to 
an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $1,400,000 equivalent;
(ii)
be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response 
to a written invitation.  The invitation shall 
include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a 
basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, 
where 
applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and 
resources to complete the contract successfully; or
(iii)
as a last resort, be carried out by force account in a manner 
satisfactory to 
the Association, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $3,500,000 
equivalent.
2.
Goods (Except Vehicles)
(a)
Goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $13,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,500,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost less than $5,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Vehicles
Vehicles estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Maintenance of Buildings and Equipment
Services for maintenance of buildings and equipment, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $4,800,000 equivalent:
(a)
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
Page  6
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines if they are estimated to cost 
$25,000 equivalent or more per contract; and
(b)
may, if they are estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per 
contract:
(i)
with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines if they 
meet the requirements of 
said paragraph; or
(ii)
as a last resort, be carried out by force account in a manner 
satisfactory to 
the Association if they meet the requirements of 
paragraph 3.8 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to (a) each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $300,000 or more, (b) the first two contracts for civil works estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $45,000 or more but less than the equivalent of $300,000, 
(c) each contract for goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, (d) the first two contracts for goods (except vehicles) estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more but less than the equivalent of $200,000 and 
(e) each contract for vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section II.  
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country.”
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
Page  7
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Single Source Selection
Services provided by consultants which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.9 of 
the Consultant Guidelines and are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $12,700,000 equivalent, may, with 
the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
Project Implementation Plan 
1.
Maharashtra shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Plan. Strategic Planning Cell 
2.
Maharashtra shall, by June 30, 1999, strengthen the Strategic Planning Cell with 
Page  8
adequate powers, functions, staff and resources satisfactory to the Association and 
maintain such Cell during the implementation of the Project. Project Management Cell 
3.
Maharashtra shall complete, by June 30, 1999, the recruitment of, and thereafter 
maintain, personnel in the Project Management Cell with adequate skills, 
qualifications and experience. 
4.
Maharashtra shall take all such measures as may be necessary or advisable in 
order to provide to the Project Management Cell, and thereafter maintain, authority to 
manage the activities to be carried out under the Project, including civil works, 
construction and maintenance.
Project Governing Board and Steering Committee 
5.
Maharashtra shall maintain the Project Governing Board and the Steering 
Committee during the implementation of the Project with composition, powers, functions 
and resources as set forth in the Project Implementation Plan.
Allocation of Resources
6.
Maharashtra shall:
(a)
ensure that within the resources (plan and non-plan) allocated to the 
health sector in each Fiscal Year during the implementation of the Project, the share 
of resources for the Primary and Secondary Levels of Health Care shall be increased in 
each such Fiscal Year from the immediately preceding Fiscal Year through FY 2003-04; 
and 
(b)
allocate in each such Fiscal Year at district and sub-divisional 
hospitals and community health centers covered under the Project adequate resources 
for drugs in accordance with norms set forth in Chapter 5, Table 4 of the Project 
Implementation Plan and essential supplies and maintenance of equipment and buildings 
in accordance with norms set forth in Annexures I, II and III of the Project 
Implementation Plan. 
Hospital Staffing and Technical Norms 
7.
Maharashtra shall adopt, within six months after completion of the renovation 
and extension of each hospital under the Project, and thereafter maintain and 
implement, staffing and technical norms for improving the quality of health care 
services provided at such hospital as set forth in Chapter 7 of the Project 
Implementation Plan.
User Charges
8.
Maharashtra shall: (i) continue to implement a program for collecting user 
charges at district and sub-divisional hospitals, such program to focus, inter alia, 
on strengthening collection of existing user charges and management arrangements and 
implementing revised user charges in a phased manner within six months after 
completion of the renovation and extension of each hospital and adoption of staffing 
and technical norms at such hospital; and (ii) by June 30, 1999, establish a mechanism 
for permitting the revenues collected from user charges to be retained at the hospital 
level and targeting beneficiaries below the poverty line for exemption from user 
charges. 
Referral Protocols and Guidelines 
9.
Maharashtra shall establish by June 30, 1999, and thereafter maintain and 
implement, referral protocols and guidelines satisfactory to the Association. 
Tribal Strategy 
10.
Maharashtra shall implement the Tribal Strategy in tribal areas (as designated 
by Maharashtra in accordance with applicable law) in accordance with the objectives, 
policies, procedures, time schedule and other provisions set out therein.
Environmental Action Plan 
Page  9
11.
Maharashtra shall implement the Environmental Action Plan in accordance with the 
objectives, policies, procedures, time schedule and other provisions set out therein. 
Resettlement and Rehabilitation 
12.
Maharashtra shall ensure that no civil works which may result in the involuntary 
resettlement of people will be undertaken under the Project. 
Annual Review and Work Plan; Budgetary Allocations
13.
Maharashtra shall:
(a)
by April 30 of each year during the implementation of the Project 
beginning with April 30, 1999:
(i)
provide to the Association an annual work plan, acceptable to the 
Association, 
setting forth the activities under the Project to be carried 
out during the 
prevailing Fiscal Year including the budgetary 
allocations to be made 
available for such purpose, as well as 
the performance benchmarks and 
development objectives to be 
achieved and drawn from the overall framework 
agreed to be 
achieved under the Project including, inter alia, hospital 
activity indicators, hospital efficiency indicators, and quality, access and 
effectiveness indicators to be measured in accordance with methodology 
satisfactory to the Association; and
(ii)
review with the Association the progress achieved in implementing 
the Project 
under the annual work plan for the previous Fiscal Year with 
special reference 
to the achievement of the performance benchmarks and 
development objectives 
incorporated therein; and
(b)
implement each annual work plan in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association. 
14.
Maharashtra shall ensure that sufficient budgetary allocations for the annual 
work plans referred to in paragraph 13 of this Schedule are made available on a timely 
basis to meet the resource requirements under such plans. 
Development of Superspecialty Hospital
15.
Maharashtra shall: (i) by October 31, 1999, submit to the Association the report 
and the implementation plan referred to in paragraph 3(b) of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement; and (ii) thereafter implement such implementation plan 
in accordance with the provisions thereof. 
Financial Management System 
16.
Maharashtra shall successfully develop by December 31, 1999, and thereafter 
maintain, a financial management system for the Project comprising preparation and 
adoption of a financial management manual, and development, installation and operation 
of a computerized financial management system, satisfactory to the Association. 
Monitoring and Evaluation; Mid-term Review
17.
Maharashtra shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, by May 31, 2002, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
Page  10
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
