Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3149 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Maharashtra Health Systems Development Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 14, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3149 IN 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated  January 14, 1999, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated October 17, 1998 from 
the State of Maharashtra, describing a program of objectives, policies and actions to 
improve the primary and secondary levels of health care (the Maharashtra Health Sector 
Development Program) and declaring its commitment to carry out such Program; 
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(C)
the Project will be carried out by the State of Maharashtra with the 
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the 
proceeds of the credit provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Credit) 
available to the State of Maharashtra, as set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the 
State of Maharashtra (the Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on\0bJune 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read as follows:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“District Management Committee” means the District Management Committee 
established in each district of Maharashtra (as hereinafter defined), which will be 
responsible for, inter alia, monitoring and supervision activities to be carried out 
under the Project at the district level, including facilitation of the functioning of 
the referral system, collection and distribution of user charges, maintenance of 
equipment, waste management, training of technical staff, quality assurance and 
surveillance of major communicable diseases; 
(b)
“Environmental Action Plan” means the action plan for the management of 
health care waste, including actions to be taken within hospital premises and actions 
to be taken regarding ultimate disposal outside hospital premises, set forth in 
Chapter 9 of the Project Implementation Plan (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the fiscal year of the Borrower and 
Maharashtra, which begins on April 1 of a calendar year and ends on March 31 of the 
following calendar year;
(d)
“Hospital Visiting Committee” means the Hospital Visiting Committee 
established for each hospital, which will be responsible for, inter alia, monitoring 
and supervision activities at the hospital level, including maintenance of equipment, 
waste management, training of technical staff, quality assurance and surveillance of 
major communicable diseases;
(e)
“Integrated Tribal Development Agency” means the Tribal Development 
Agency of Maharashtra; 
(f)
“Maharashtra” means the Borrower’s State of Maharashtra, or any successor 
thereto; 
(g)
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization; 
(h)
“PHD” means the Public Health Department of Maharashtra; 
Page  3
(i)
“Primary and Secondary Levels of Health Care” means preventive and 
curative health care provided by sub-centers, primary health centers, community health 
centers and sub-divisional and district hospitals in Maharashtra;
(j)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
Maharashtra of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(k)
“Project Governing Board” means the Project Governing Board established 
by Maharashtra, which will be responsible for, inter alia, making major policy 
decisions and developing the broad policy outline for the Project, approving the 
annual budget, authorizing major Project revisions as necessary, ratifying decisions 
of the Steering Committee (as hereinafter defined), undertaking an annual review of 
Project implementation and monitoring overall Project progress;  
(l)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementation Plan of 
Maharashtra for the carrying out of the Project, dated October 12, 1998 and approved 
by the Association, as the same may be updated from time to time with the agreement of 
the Association; 
(m)
“Project Management Cell” means the Project Management Cell established 
within PHD, which will be responsible for, inter alia, performing routine Project 
management, monitoring progress, maintaining the flow of funds and project accounts, 
providing technical guidance and general administration, and preparing progress 
reports;
(n)
“Scheduled Tribes” means the population groups specified as “Scheduled 
Tribes” pursuant to Article 342 of the Constitution of India; 
(o)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement; 
(p)
“Steering Committee” means the Steering Committee established by 
Maharashtra and reporting to the Project Governing Board, which will be responsible 
for, inter alia, overseeing and monitoring Project implementation and facilitating 
Project management; 
(q)
“Strategic Planning Cell” means the Strategic Planning Cell established 
within PHD, which will be responsible for, inter alia, developing and reviewing health 
sector policy issues for Maharashtra; and 
(r)
“Tribal Strategy” means the strategy for increasing the utilization of 
the Primary and Secondary Levels of Health Care by the Scheduled Tribes in 
Maharashtra, as set forth in Chapter 14 of the Project Implementation Plan. 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed to be a reference to Maharashtra.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to ninety-seven million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 97,900,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Page  4
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 1 and December 1 commencing June 1, 2009 and ending December 1, 2033. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on December 1, 2018 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
Page  5
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall cause Maharashtra to perform in accordance 
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Maharashtra 
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision 
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
Maharashtra to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to 
Maharashtra in accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for developmental 
assistance to the States of India.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
Maharashtra pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall participate in the carrying out of the mid-term 
review of the Project referred to in paragraph 17 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the Fiscal Year 
in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal Year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
Page  6
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such Fiscal 
Year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Maharashtra shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Maharashtra will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
An event shall have occurred which shall make it improbable that the 
Maharashtra Health Sector Development Program or a significant part of such Program 
will be carried out.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by Maharashtra, and is legally binding upon 
Maharashtra in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
Page  7
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
Telex:
ECOFAIRS
953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ V. Govindarajan 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim 
Country Director, India
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
90% 
(a)
For Parts A, B and C
of the Project
36,200,000
(b)
For Part D
of the Project
 1,200,000
(2)
Equipment, furniture,
100% of foreign
instruments, medicines,
expenditures;
Page  8
vehicles, supplies and
100% of local
materials
expenditures
(ex-factory cost);
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(a)
For Parts A, B and C
of the Project
16,400,000
(b)
For Part D
of the Project
 3,100,000
(3)
Consultants’ services,
12,900,000
100%
professional services,
training, fellowships,
workshops and studies
(4)
Incremental operating
80% of expenditures
and maintenance costs
incurred through
March 31, 2001; 55% 
of expenditures incurred
from April 1, 2001 
through March 31, 2003;
and 25% of expenditures
incurred thereafter
(a)
For Parts A, B and C
of the Project
 9,100,000
(b)
For Part D
of the Project
 2,600,000
(5)
Unallocated
16,400,000
__________
TOTAL
97,900,000
==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating and maintenance costs” means the 
following additional costs incurred in carrying out the Project: (i) salaries of 
additional staff; and (ii) operation and maintenance of vehicles, equipment, buildings 
and offices.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of \0bSDR 
1,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1)(a), (2)(a), (3) and (4)(a) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after March 31, 1998; and 
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category (1)(b), (2)(b) or (4)(b) 
unless and until Maharashtra has submitted to the Association (i) a report of a 
feasibility study for developing a superspecialty hospital under Part D of the Project 
and (ii) an implementation plan, including a time schedule, for carrying out Part D of 
Page  9
the Project, all satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works under contracts 
costing less than $300,000 equivalent each; (b) goods (except vehicles) under 
contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (c) vehicles under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (d) consultants’ services under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, in the case of firms, and $50,000 
equivalent each, in the case of individuals; and (e) incremental operating and 
maintenance costs; all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist Maharashtra in: (i) improving 
efficiency in the allocation and use of health resources through policy and 
institutional development; and (ii) improving the performance of the health care 
system through systemic enhancements in the quality, effectiveness and coverage of 
health services at the first referral level and selective coverage at the community 
health center level, so as to improve the health status of the people, especially the 
poor, by reducing mortality, morbidity and disability.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Management Development and Institutional Strengthening 
1.
Improving the institutional framework for policy development through the 
Strategic Planning Cell to develop and review state level health sector policy issues, 
including public and private health care, the burden of disease and cost-effectiveness 
of public health interventions, medical manpower, cost recovery mechanisms, the 
targeting of beneficiaries for exemption and resource allocation patterns within the 
health sector.
2.
Strengthening management and implementation capacity through: (i) maintaining 
the Project Governing Board, the Steering Committee and the Project Management Cell at 
Headquarters of PHD; (ii) maintaining District Management Committees and Hospital 
Visiting Committees at the district and divisional levels; (iii) providing additional 
staff at Headquarters of PHD; (iv) enhancing the computerized system of information 
collection and management through the provision of hardware and software, and 
consultancy support, training management staff in appropriate record keeping and 
introducing a revised medical reporting system for in-patients and diagnostic services 
at the hospital level; (v) establishing well equipped information cells at 
Headquarters of PHD and at the district level with adequately trained personnel; and 
(vi) developing a computerized Project financial management system for use and 
operation by the Project Management Cell.
3.
Developing surveillance capacity for major communicable diseases by: (i) 
strengthening the existing surveillance system to cover the identification of cases, 
indexing of cases or isolation of cases and treatment and tracing of contacts for 
monitoring and evaluation; (ii) establishing an Epidemiological Cell at Headquarters 
of PHD to coordinate surveillance activities in Maharashtra and district surveillance 
units to coordinate surveillance activities at the district level; and (iii) 
strengthening capacity for data collection at the district level.
Part B:
Improving Service Quality and Effectiveness at District and 
Sub-divisional Hospitals 
1.
Renovation and extension of existing district and sub-divisional hospitals and 
construction of staff quarters.
2.
Improving the effectiveness of clinical, management and support services at 
district and sub-divisional hospitals through: (i) improving the system for the 
procurement and distribution of drugs; (ii) applying streamlined norms and standards 
Page  10
for clinical and support services; (iii) adopting staffing and technical norms 
conforming to services provided at each type of facility; (iv) establishing a system 
for monitoring improvements in the quality of clinical care through the adoption of a 
quality assurance program; (v) expanding the capacity of support services; (vi) 
enhancing staff skills in clinical and technical areas through the provision of 
training to improve the quality and range of services; (vii) strengthening hospital 
management training for professional staff and ongoing clinical and in-service 
training for clinical and technical staff to facilitate the implementation of the 
quality improvement strategy of the Project; and (viii) improving the management of 
health care waste.
3.
Strengthening the management system for information collected under different 
health programs to improve program performance and ensure effective monitoring, 
regular information flows and timely feedback mechanisms through: (i) developing 
standard formats for hospital record keeping, improving storage facilities for medical 
records, and providing training for medical records personnel; (ii) providing training 
to district and state level staff in data analysis and computer use; and (iii) 
providing appropriate equipment and supplies.
Part C:
Improving Access to Basic Health Services 
1.
Strengthening community health centers through renovation and extension, 
construction of staff quarters, additional manpower, the provision of equipment, drugs 
and other supplies and outreach functions including NGO activities.
2.
Promoting basic health services for the Scheduled Tribes in Maharashtra through: 
(i) improving the quality of services; (ii) providing effective information, education 
and communication regarding benefits of using government health services;\0b(iii) 
strengthening linkages between primary and secondary health care services;\0b(iv) 
strengthening linkages between PHD and the Integrated Tribal Development Agency; (v) 
increasing access to health care services through the provision of mobile health 
clinics and annual health camps; and (vi) addressing the high infant and child 
mortality among the Scheduled Tribes by providing enhanced training to staff in 
primary health centers and community health centers in the management of the 
critically ill child.
3.
Improving the referral system and strengthening linkages between different tiers 
of the health care system through: (i) strengthening the management of the referral 
system; (ii) implementing referral protocols; (iii) implementing clinical management 
protocols; and (iv) establishing an incentive system for using the referral system.
Part D:
Developing a Superspecialty Hospital 
1.
Developing a superspecialty hospital as an innovative scheme for closer 
cooperation between the public and private sectors through the adoption of modern 
management practices.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $8,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
Page  11
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $3,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 32,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
Page  12
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
