Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LAX 2g7-AlA
Report No. 7344-MA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAYSIA
SECOND PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION
SECTOR PROJECT
(TENTH EDUCATION LOAN)
June 24, 1988
Population and Human Resources Operations Unit
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document baso a restricted disrbution and way be used by recipienls only in the performance of 
|their official duties. Its contents may n ot ohenvse be disclosed without World Bank aulhorization.|



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             Ringgit (M$)
Average 1987              January 1988
US$1.00 = M$2.52      -   US$1.00 = M$2.50
M$1.00  = US$0.40     =    $1.00  = US$0.40
MALAYSIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB     -    Asian Development Bank
DC      -    Development Committee (Ministry of Education)
DEO     -    District Education Office
DSD     -    Development and Supplies Division (Ministry of Education)
EPC     -    Educational Planning Committee (Ministry of Education)
EPRD    -    Educational Planning and Research Division (Ministry of
Education)
EPU     -    Economic Planning Unit (Prime Minister's Department)
ICB     -    International Competitive Bidding
JS      -    Joint Secretariat of the Project Implementation Committee
(PIC)
KBSM    -    Kurikulum Bersepadu Sekolah Menengah (Integrated Secondary
School Curriculum)
KBSR    -    Kurikulum Baru Sekolah Rendah (New Primary School
Curric-ulum)
LCB     -    Local Competitive Bidding
MOE     -    Ministry of Education
NIEM    -    National Institute of Educational Management (recently
renamed Aminuddin Baki Institute)
PIC     -    Project Implementation Committee (Ministry of Education)
PWD     -    Public Works Departvient
RC      -    Resource Center
SED     -    State Education Department
SOE     -    Statement of Expenditure
TTC     -    Teacher Training College
UNDP    -    United Nations Development Program



N XiL. iAAL l  a.L.
MALAYSIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
(TENTH EDUCATION LOAN)
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY.....................................          i
1.*  INTRODUCTION ................................................................  1
Socio-economic Background....................................          1
Development Objectives and Economic Perfor qnce...............         1
Implications for Education ... .........    ......................     2
2.   THE SECTOR..................................................           3
Overvie. ......................... ....... ................ ..........  3
3
Enrollment Expansion   .................................             4
Female Participation...... .............. . .....e.*** ....*         4
Teacher Training...........................................          4
Educational Finance........................................          4
External Assistance for Education..........................          5
Educational  anagemen............. ..............o ...............   6
Educational Development and Support Services......... ......         6
Resource Centers       ..............                    .           7
Major Issues in the Sectorooo...o.. o. ..... .......... oo..ooo        7
Quality of Educationo...u. c       a    t    i     on.......... . ..............  7
Efficiency of Educational Management....o.oo...o.ooo....o..          9
Access to Quality Education ...oe.. ............. e. .oos.e         10
Government's Objectives and Strategy                                  11
Quality of Edu               c     a    t    i     on....................... .. ............  11
Efficiency of Educational Management..e..e.oo..oo.....oe..          13
Access to Quality   ucation .................ooo.......... oe       14
Government's Program..                                o               14
Assessment of the  P.o..r                            a    m           16
Experience with Past Bank Lending to Education and
Bank Objectives........e........e.. ... ........e ...e...           18
Rationale for Bank Lending to Primary and
Secondary Education....ti.. ........ ...e.. on.........e...         19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in
January/February 1988 comprising A. Salmon (senior general edutcator, mission
leader), R. Montague (architect), M.C. Chang (general educator/educational
planner) and J. Laya (economist, consultant).
This docutment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dudes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
3.   THE PROJECT.................................. ..........               20
Project Objectives and Description ...........................         20
Improving the Quality of Educationo.............o.............         21
Increasing the Efficiency of Educational Management..........          22
Expanding Access to Better Education .........................         23
Status of Project Preparation................................          24
4.   INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND FINANCING ...o. o0* .............o.....         25
Costs and ......................................... .........          25
Procurementoo o.oo....o.... oo, ooo*oooooooo**oooooooooooopoo          28
Disbursement .. .       ...........t..........e........... ......o. e.o.o. s  30
Accounts and Audit........... ....................... .....            31
S.   MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION. .......*.... 00000000ee0000000@0        31
Government's Project Implementation Capacity.................          31
The Sector Approach........................................*.          32
Organization, Monitoring and Evaluation .....................          33
Implementation Procedureso.........................e*o*o*****          34
Reporting o......... ....o.oooooo.***eoe...o.  ^oooo                   34
60   BENEFITS AND RISKS. .................. ..........eo.*o*****o**o*       34
7.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .........o ...............       36
Tables in the Text
1.   Development Budget for Primary and General Secondary
Education, 1986-90o........................ ..,.........* o ..         15
2.   Bank-Financed Education Sector Projects......................          16
3.   Investment Program Costs by Category of Expenditure..........          26
4.  Financing Plan ............ o*00000000000000000#0                       27
5.   Procurement Arrangementse............ ..    e    .....o.......         29
Annexes
1. Comparative Education Indicators
2. Teacher Supply and Demand Projections, 1986-95
3. Classroom:Claus and Student:Classroom Ratios by State
4. Classroom:Class and Student:Classroom Ratios by District
5. Plan of Action on Policy and Institutional Develcpment
6. Projections of Student Enrollment, 1986-95
7. Estimated Recurrent Cost of Education in 1991
8. Responsibilities for Program Management and Implementation
9. Investment Costs by Program Component
10. Investment Costs by Objective
11. Socio-economic Indicators by State
12. Investment Costs by Implementation Year and Program Component



- iii -
13. Estimated Unit Areas and Construction Costs for Project Institutions
14. Estimated Economic Costs ef Education in 1991
15. Disbursement Forecast
16.  Appraise. Operations Carried out by the MOE Appraisal Committee
17. General Eligibility Criteria for Approval of Programs and Subprojects
18. Specific Criteria for the Identification and Appraisal of Programs and
Subprojects
19. Guidelines and Criteria for Allocation of Loan Funds under Programs
and Subprojects
20. Implementation Schedule
21. Critical Implementation Dates
22. Key Performance Indicators
23.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the :roject File
Charts
1. Structure of the Education System, 1987
2. Education Pyramid, 1986
3. Ministry of Education, Organization Chart, 1987
4. Operational Chart of Educational Planning
5. State Education Department, Organization Chart, 1987
6. District Education Office, Organization Chart, 1987
7. Procedure for Generating and Processing Programs and Subprojects
8. Ministry of Education, Development and Supplies Division, Organization
Chart, 1987
9. Ministry of Education, Educational Planning and Research Division,
Organization Chart, 1987
10. Managemer"t of Subsector Investment Program, Organization and
Responsibilities
Malaysia - Second Primary and Secondary Education Sector Project
Primary Education:    Peninsular Malaysia (IBRD No. 20259)
East Malaysia        (IBRD No. 21031)
Secondary Education:  Peninsular Malaysia (IBRD No. 19948)
East Malaysia       (IBRD No. 21032)



MALAYSIA
SECOID PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
(TENTH EDUCATION LOAN)
Basic Data (1986)
Total population          :  16.1 million
Growth rate per annum    : 2.5%
GNP per capita (estimate): US$1,860
Education level          Age Group    Grade   Enrollment    X Girls    Enrollment Ratio (Z)
Primary                     6-11         1-6   2,233,Oq0  /a    49                 98
Secondary                  12-16       7-11   1,271,000 /a    49                   72
Lower                    12-14        7-9      935,000        -                  87
Upper                    15-16      10-11      336,000        -                  48
Post Secondary             17-18      12-13       82,000 /b    54                  12
Hither                     i9-22      14-17       75,400 /c    43                   4
Enrollments    Teachers  Schools  Classrooms  Classes  Boarders  Staff Housing
Primary     2,233,000      101,000    6,664      55,700    66,500    49,000        7,400
Secondary   1,319,000/b    60,700    1,216       24,900    35,800   136,700        3,900
Student:   Student:   Student:   Teacher:   Classroom:   Boarders:   Housing:
Ratios     Teacher     Class      Classroom   Class        Class      Enroll't    Teachers
Primary      22           34         40         1.5         842           2%           7%
Secondary    22           37         53         1.7/d       69X          10%           62
Expenditure on Education
As Z of GNP                     :  6.7
As Z of total recurrent budget :  18.4
As X of total investment budget:  11.0
As % of total government budget:  16.3
/a  Excludes private enrollments in private schools, namely 5,600 in primary and 116,000
in secondary education.
/b Includes 48,000 Form VI students enrolled in secondary schools.
7-c Excludes an estimated 34,000 students overseas.
7-d Includes teachers with special functions.



- i -
HALAYSIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
(TENTH EDUCATION LOAN)
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Malaysia
Amount:         US$58.8 million equivalent
Terms:          Repayable in 15 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable rate
Project
Description:  This project would be a follow-up to the first Primary and
Secondary Education Sector Project (Loan 2685-MA). It would
constitute the second sector investment loan within a ten-year
program (1986-95) to develop and improve the p-imary and
secondary education subsector under the Fifth Malaysia Plan
(1986-90). The main objective is to assist the Government to
accelerate policy reforms and institutional changes to improve
the quality of elucation and the efficiency of educational
management, and increase access to better education. The
policy framework is in place and agreeable to the Bank which
was closely associated with its development. Progress with
policy implementation is satisfactory, and the project would
help address outstanding issues and assist with the
implementation of the new curricula which focus in particular
on Humanity's responsibility in the physical, social and
technological environment.
The proposed project woule include: (a) the provision of 295
educational resource centers which are crucial for the
delivery of the new primary school curriculum; (b) the
provision of about 4,400 primary and secondary classrooms, and
related boarding and staff housing facilities in the most
disadvantaged and overcrowded districts; and (c) a staff
development program for about 7,400 key educators, trainers,
advisors and managers, including fellowships abroad and local
training.
Benefits:       The proposed project would benefit about 192,000 students,
particularly in areas of greatest need. Upon completion of
the project, which would complement the first Primary and
Secondary Education Sector Project during the Fifth Malaysia
Plan period (1986-90), the key educators and managers required



- ii -
by 1990 would be trained; the new curricula would be imple-
mented in primary education and initiate4 in secondary educa-
tion; resource centers would provide support to about two-
thirds of aA primary schools; teacher training capacity would
be adequate; sectoral studies would oe completed; more board-
ing facilities would provide access to able students from the
poorest segments of the population and would help consolidate
small uneconomical schools; more staff housing would help
attract and retain qualified teachers in underprivileged
areas; and excessive double-shifting and overcrowding would be
reduced. The high rate of female participation would be
maintained. More cost-efficient school construction standards
and practices would be expanded. Significant educational
outcomes would also result from the new curricula with their
emphasis on students' mastery of basic skills and
environmental responsibility.
Risks:          No risk is anticipated for the project itself as the ground-
work has been laid and successfully tested under the First
Sector Project, and the project cost has been tailored to
available budgetary resources under the revised Fifth Malaysia
Plan. However, in the event of continuing financing
constraints, the implementation of the Government's 10-year
development program and its demanding reform of curricula
would be slowed down and might may have to be extended to the
year 2000. The priority placed on the subsector by the
Government ensures alleviation of the most critical needs, and
recurrent cost projections remain within reasonable limits.
Moreover, cost-efficiency measures, implemented systematic-
ally, would reduce the growth rate of recurrent expendi-
tures. No problem is anticipated with regard to the staffing
of the schools, which is well within the training capacity of
Malaysia's teacher training colleges and universities.



- iii -
Project Cosé:                                     Local     Foran        Total
US$ million
National Level Program
Staff development                2.0         0.8        2.8
State Level Programs
Primary schools                 31.1        17.5       48.6
Secondary schools               42.0        25.3       67.3
Boarding                         4.4         2.6        7.0
Staff housing                    2.4         1.3        3.7
Education resource centers      11.1         5.9       17.0
Subtotal                      91.0       52.6       143.6
Baseline Cost                     93.0        53.4      146.4
Contingencies
Physical                         4.6         2.7        7.3
Price                            3.4         2.7        6.1
Subtotal                       8.0        5.4        13.4
Total Project Cost           101.0 /a    58.8       159.8
Financing Plan:                                   Local     Forein      Total
6--- -  U$mil-lion=-
Government                       101.0          -       101.0
Bank                                -         58.8       58.8
Total                         101.0 /a    58.8       159.8
Estimated Dis,ursements:
Bank FY               1989   1990   1991   ))92   1993
------- US$ millio        Ö ----Ö---
Annual                10.9   35.8   11.6    0.4    0.1
Cumulative            10.9   46.7   53.3   58.7   58.8
gate of Return:   N.A.
/a   Including duties and taxes estimated at US$3.7 million.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAYSIA
SECOND PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
(TENTH EDUCATION LOAN)
I. INTRODUCTION
Socio-economic Background
1.1       Malaysia, a country of about 16.1 million people, is separated by
the South China Sea into Peninsular Mablaysia and the East Malaysia states of
Sabah and Sarawak. About 83% of the populationi reside in Peninsular Malaysia
while approximately 8Z are in Sabah and 9% in Sarawak. Malaysia is a
predominantly rural country with 601 of the population of Peninsular Malaysia
and 80Z of the population of Sabah and Sarawak living in rural areas. Malays
constitute the largest ethnic group (48Z of the population), followed by the
Chinese (31Z), the indigenous ethnic groups (121), the Indians (8Z), and
others (1%). Within Peninsular Malaynia, ethnicity differs significantly
between urban and rural areas with 731 of the Malays residing in rural areas,
compared with 412 of the Chinese and 551 of the Indians.
1.2       Administratively, Malaysia is divided into 13 states and the Federal
Territory of Kuala Lumpur and Labuan, and 12' districts. In Sabah and
Sarawak, where the population is widely dispersed, the "Division" is a third
administrative level between the State and the District. Malaysia's resources
and the benefits of its economic growth have not yet been equally shared among
all people and regions. Although the overall incidence of poverty has
decreased substantially since 1970, there are still wide variations in poverty
among regions. In 1984 approximately 25Z of rural households were in poverty,
as compared with only 81 in urban areas.
Development Objectives and Economic Performance
1.3       The New Economic Policy articulated in 1971 sets forth the develop-
ment goals for the next twenty years as being the eradication of poverty, by
raising income levels and increasing employment opportunities for all
Malaysians irrespective of race, and the restructuring of society so as to
reduce racial imbalance in economic functions. This policy has been implemen-
ted through economic growth and increased participation of the poorest
segments of the populatiLon in the benefits of development through selective
programs.
1.4       The problem of regional inequalities has also been addressed through
greater r:egional decentralization of economic activity, with priority given to
disadvancaged areas. These economic programs to eliminate poverty and
inequality have been combined with political and social programs to encourage



national integration and social change. Education has been accorded a crucial
role in this process.
1.5       The Government has adopted a policy to reach a larger population
target of 70 million by the year 2100. This is to be achieved by slowing down
the decline ia the fertility rate and increasing life expectancy. Among other
measures, income tax deductions are being allowed for up to five children.
This would increase pressure on the school system to provid(t more resources to
accommodate increased enrollment.
1.6       The 1970s was a period of economic progress as a result of strong
external demand for Malaysia's commodity exports. The growth rate of GDP
reached 7.8Z per annum for the period 1971-80. This, combined with the
Government's policies, led to substantial improvements in welfare, as measured
by the lower incidence of poverty and improved access to public services,
including education. The growth rate of employment reached a peak of 4.42 in
1981; the unemployment rate was 4.72 in 1982. This period of rapid growth in
the 1970s slowed down in the early 1980s. The recession in industrialized
nations reduced exports and GDP annual growth eeclined from 8.6X in the period
1975-80 to 3.52 in 1982-86; it was -1.02 in 1945 and was 1.2Z in 1986. As a
consequence of these developments, unemployment in 1986 was estimated to be
8.5Z of the labor force.
1.7       The Government initially attempted to maintain growth by maintaining
its spending and assuming more responatibility for expansion. However, as the
recession continued and deficits grew, the Government cut the federal budget
in 1983, 1984 and again in 1987. The cits were more severe in the investment
rather than in the recurrent budget. In 1988, due to improving economic
conditions, operating and capital expenditures are budgeted to grow by 7.12
and 22.92, respectively.
Implications for Education
1.8       Malaysia's economic circumstances and development goals have a
substantial impact on both the need for educational expansion and improvement,
and the ability of the economy to provide resources for these tasks. The
diversification of the economy out of primary production requires that the
labor force have an ability to acquire new skills. Education is essential to
such a labor force. In addition, primary and secondary education have high
rates of economic return in Malaysia:  the private returns to 1econdary
education were estimated at about 332 according to one study,' and a study on
paddy farmers in the Muda River Valley indicated that primary schooling was
instrumental in helping farmers obtain higher yields. Each additional year of
primary schooling was reported to yield about a 222 rate of return net of
schooling costs. This rate of return to primary schooling is similar to that
1/  C. Psacharopoulos, "Returns to Education:  A Further International Update
and Implications," Journal of Human Resources, 1985.



- 3 -
observed in Thailand and substantially above that found in Korea.21 In
general, it has been estimated that in Asian developing countries the social
rate of return (net of the cost of education to society) is 27% for primary,
15% for secondary and 13% for higher edu.ation. The crucial issue is che
ability of Malaysia to afford increased iLvestment in schooling to the extent
it would like, given the related recurrent cost and the recent constraints on
resources.
II. THE SECTOR
Overview
2.1       General.  Since independence in 1957, the Government's effort to
develop the education syst%,m has been an integral part of a wider national
policy. The Government has regarded education as a key to national identity
and integration, socio-economic development and increased employment. Educa-
tion is also considered a major instrument of social and economic mobility, a
means of providing productive skills, raising the standard of living, and
reducing the difference in earnings among ethnic groups. It is, therefore, a
major vehicle to achieve the New Economic Policy goals of eradicating poverty
and reducing racial imbalance in economic functions.
2.2       The establishmei  of a federal Ministry of Education (MOE) with a
unified education system,_ the introduction of a common curriculum for all
schools, the progressive implementation of Bahasa Malaysia (the standardized
Malay language) at all levels of the national education system, and the
inculcation of national values have helped to integrate the various ethnic
communities, while preserving their specific cultural values through the use
of their own languages as media of instruction in primary education.4
2.3       The Government has concentrated its effort on providing universal
basic edueation to children of the 6-14 age group for at least nine years.
This is coasidered by the Government as the minimum general education
2/   D.T. Jamison and L. J. Lau, Farmer Education and Farm Efficiency,
Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins University Press, 1982.
3/   The education system comt, -ises six years of primary education, three
years of lower secondary and two years of upper secondary education,
followed by two years of pre-university courses, or two to three years of
post-secondary vocational and teacher training, and three to six years of
higher education (Chart 1).
4/   At the primary level, Bahasa Malaysia is taught in all schools, but the
main language of instruction in some schools is Chinese or Tamil. One
extra year (remove class) following primary education in Chinese and
Tamil is provided to non-Malays to upgrade their Bahasa Malaysia to the
proficiency level required for secondary education where Bahasa Malaysia
is the sole language of instruction.



- 4 -
requirement for further training and productive life. The Government's policy
is to provide free primary education and virtually automatic promotiLon from
Grade 1 to Grade 9. Universal access to the full five-year secondary
education, the ultimate goal, cannot yet be achieved due to financial
constraints.
2.4       Enrollment Expansion.  The above policy has resulted in a
significant expansion of education. Between 1980 and 1986, enrollment in
government educational institutions grew at an average annual rate of 3.5X.
In 1986, enrollment in pri  ry education was virtually universal (98%) and
secondary education (72x) _  had one of the highest ratios in the region.
Post-secondary education was at 12% and higher education at 4Z (Chart 2).
Annex 1 shows recent comparative data.
2.5       Female Participation.  The participation of girls in education
remains high with 491 of the enrollment in primary and secondary, arnd about
54% in post-secondary education. In higher education, female enrollment had
reached 43X in 1986. Even in technical/vocational education, girls are sub-
stantially represented with 35% in secondary technical schools, 25% in
vocational schools, and 22X in polytechnics. Female enrollment has particu-
larly increased in teacher training, reaching 62% in 1985. Forty-nine percent
of all teachers in primary and secondary education, including technical
schools, are women. However, the proportion of women in administrative
positions is much lower.
2.6       Teacher Training.  The teacher training system provides a
diversified range of programs. Primary, lower secondary and vocational
teachers are trained in 28 teacher training colleges (TTCs), and upper
secondary teachers in five universities. In addition, a number of long- and
short-term upgrading courses and induction courses about new teaching programs
and methods, and educational management are provided to inservice teachers and
education officers on a permanent basis.
2.7       The annual output of TTCs fluctuates between 5,000 and 6,000
teachers, while that of universities has reached about 2,000 graduates.
Despite these efforts, the total shortfall of qualified teachers in 1986 was
still about 15,000 in primary education and 9,000 in secondary education. In
order to meet the urgent demand, the TTCs have doubled their intake to
increase their output to about 9,100 in 1988. Three additional TTCs being
built under the ongoing Primary and Secondary Education Seczor Project (Loan
2685-MA)-referred to as the "First Sector Project" in this report--will
provide sufficient capacity to ease the present overcrowding by 1990 and
completely eliminate teacher shortfall by 1995 (Annex 2).
2.8       Educational Finance.  The improvements in educational quality -iid
opportunities have required that a relatively high share of GNP be speat on
education. In 1986, this share was 6.72, as compared with 2.1% in !ndonesia,
5/   Enrollment ratios for lower and upper secondary education were 87% and
48%, respectively.



- 5 -
2.81 in the Philippines and 3.41 in Thailand. In the region, it was exceeded
only by Korea (7.71). High expenditures are due both to the wide coverage of
the education system and to higher student unit costs mainly resulting from a
modest st;iuent:teacher ratio (22:1 in primary and secondary education) due to
the dieTierssd population and the new curriculum which requires more
individualized instruction.
2.9       Education is a federal responsibility in Malaysia, and the cost of
education is borne mainly by the Federal Government. Only about 51 of the
cost is met from fees and private contributions. Typically, the MOE bears
about 751 of all expenditures on education and training. The remaining 20Z is
borne largely by other ministries and by private agencies. Private schools
enroll a negligible proportion of primary students (0.3Z) and only 9Z of
secondary students.
2.10      The MOE's share of the national recurrent expenditure budget
declined from 1981, when it was 19.21, to 17.51 in 1985. It rose to 19.51 in
1987, but has declined again to 19.01, or US$1,614.8 million equivalent, in
1988. The distribution of the 1988 federal recurrent budget over the three
major levels of education is about 431, 371, and 201 for primary, secondary
and higher education, respectively, including the respective shares of general
administration and miscellaneous expenditures. Capital investment in
education will be US$343.5 million equivalent in 1988, representing 12.51 of
the total government development budget. Over the period 1980-88, the MOE's
high share of the development budget (8.11) was due to the Government's policy
of safeguarding education from the full impact of general fiscal measures and
of continuing the policy to increase educational opportunities even in the
most remote areas. This is still reflected in the revised Fifth Malaysia Plan
(November 1987), which provides a total of US$1,550 million equivalent for
education projects under the MOE, specifically US$304 million for primary
education, US$591 million for secondary general and vocational education,
US$520 million for higher education, US$92 million for teacher training, US$21
million for staff housing, and US$22 million for boarding facilities. Within
the social services sector, which has a share of about 15Z of the total
budget, education and training have been given the highest priority with an
allocation representing two-thirds of this share, or about 101 of the total
budget, for the plan period.
2.11      External Assistance for Education.  Malaysia receives external aid
for education and training in the form of technical assistance and investment
programs. The United Nations Development Program (UNDP) constitutes the major
source of multilateral technical assistance. UNICEF and UNESCO also provide
support in smaller amounts. UNDP's contribution, under its Fourth Country
Program (1987-91), focuses on education management and planning, training and
manpower planning. The other principal sources of bilateral assistance are
Australia, Canada, Japan and the United Kingdom. This assistance focuses on
industrial and vocational training, human resources planning and research, and
higher education. As for capital investment, the ongoing education and
training projects, which concentrate on skill training, higher education and
teacher training, are financed by the Asian Development Bank, the Islamic
Development Bank, the Saudi Fund for Development, and the World Bank which
remains the major source of external assistance (para. 2.37).



- 6 -
2.12      Educational Management.  Educational administration in Malaysia is
the responsibility of the MOE.  It has a four-tiered line of authority
including federal, state, district and school levels. The MOE operates
through its 13 professional and 12 administrative divisions and serJices
(Chart 3). Decisions are made by the Minister of Education who chairs the
Educational Planning Committee (EPC), the highest policy-making and planning
body for education (Chart 4). EPC coordinates the work of six Specialized
Comfittees, for curricula, textbooks, scholarships and training, higher
education, finance, and development. The secretariat of EPC is the the
Educational Planning and Research Division (EPRD) of the MOE. It
(a) coordinates all inputs from MOE divisions and State Education Departments
(SED), universities, and other statutory bodies and agencies relating to
education; and (b) presents the MOE's plan to the Economic Planning Unit (EPU)
of the Prime Minister's Department. The EPU is responsible to the highest
policy-making and planning authority in the country, namely the National Deve-
lopment Planning Committee, chaired by the Chief Secretary to the Government.
2.13      Downstream, in each of the 13 states of the Federation, an SED
(Chart 5) is responsible for the implementation of the government educational
policy while providing the MOE with feedback on the issues specific to each
state. SED directors are directly responsible to the Director General of
Education in the MOE.
2.14      The rapid expansion of the education system resulted in the need for
an additional tier of decentralized management and quality-control, between
SEDs and schools, to monitor and evaluate educational programs and school
activities, and upgrade teachers locally. To meet this need, 57 District
Education Offices (DEOs) were established in Peninsular Malaysia in 1982
(Chart 6). In Sabah and Sarawak, 13 Division Education Offices and 50 DEOs
already existed. A DEO is headed by a District Education Officer, directly
responsible to the SED director, except for Sabah and Sarawak where he reports
to the Divisional Education Officer (para. 1.2).
2.15      Educational Development and Support Services.  The MOE provides the
education system with a diversified educational development and support net-
work including: (a) the Federal Inspectorate, in charge of assessing
teachers' and school managers' efficiency as well as major educational issues;
(b) the Curriculum Development Center responsible for the curricula and
related educational media programs and textbooks;,Wc) the Examinations
Syndicate in charge of (i) national examinations 6 as well as external
examinations, administered on behalf of over 30 foreign examination bodies;
and (ii) cooperating with the University of Cambridge Local Examination
Syndicate to fix standards and awards; (d) the Textbooks Bureau in charge of
textbooks, and managing rth  Textbook Loan Scheme of about US$16 million p.a.,
which provides free textbooks, workbooks and readers to over 80% of the school
population (about three million students); and (e) the Educational Technology
6/   The primary Grade 5 assessment test, the lower secondary Grade 9
examination and the upper secondary general, commercial and vocational
examinations completing Grade 11.



Divirion, responsible for developing, broadcasting and monitoring over 100
series of radio and TV programs covering most of the primary and secondary
grades, and distributing radio and TV sets. The School Library Unit also
comes under this Division and is responsible for library books and training of
librarians. All the above bodies are adequately staffed and efficient.
2.16      Resource Centers.  A network of Resource Centers (RCs) has been
established to provide the necessary back-up support in the field to teachers
and administrators in charge of improving the quality and efficiency of educa-
tion. The network includes: four state RCs in Peninsular Malaysia (estab-
lished under the Fourth Education Project, Loan 1329-MA), 15 ivision RCs in
Sabah and Sarawak and 365 district RCs in the whole country.7r  Standard
school designs also include RCs at the grassroot level. These RCs, at four
levels of responsibility and sophistication, provide the inputs required for
improved educational management and proper delivery of the new curricula
emphasizing active teaching/learning methods and practical orientations. They
ensure availability for students and staff of library books, equipment and
materials; maintenance and repair of equipment; and managerial and teaching
skills upgrading, through presentation of managerial practices, model lessons,
teaching materials development and production, and introduction to the use of
management and teaching technology and distance education media. RCs also
greatly contribute to alleviating school staffs' isolation in rural areas.
Major Issues in the Sector
2.17      Although education in Malaysia has greatly improved over recent
years, several problems still affect the quality of education, the efficiency
of educational management, and access to quality education at both primary and
secondary levels.
2.18      Quality of Education.  The 1986 primary Grade 5 Assessment Test
demonstrated that a high percentage (36Z) of primary students, who were not
yet taught the new curriculum, were below standards and needed remedial
instruction in reading and writing. The difference in students' achievements
between the urban areas and rural districts were substantial, with a gap of
21Z. In secondary education, 33X and 31Z of the students who sat for the 1986
Grades 9 and 11 examinations, respectively, did not pass. This was due to a
combination of factors such as inadequate facilities and instructional
quality.
2.19      Four main sources of problems inhibiting active teaching/learning
processez snd advrz.aly affecting the quality of education were identified:
(a) unsuitab:e curriculum components in the context of the changing socio-
cultural and technological needs of Malaysia; (b) inadequate teacher training;
(c) shortage of educational resources; and (d) shortage of facilities.
7/   Of the latter, 350 are based in schools, 14 in SEDs and one in the
Educational Technology Division of the MOE.



-8-
(a) Curriculum. Before the introduction of the new primary school
curricu!umi (KBSR) in 1983, primary education focussed on the
acquisition of academic knowledge and overloaded students' minds
with uncoordinated subjects and topics. Insufficient emphasis wis
given to the acquisition of basic skills, practical knov-how and
active teaching/learning methods in the classroom and homework. The
curriculum was mostly unrelated to the local environment, modern
life and economy, and the surrounding communities. Also, the shift
in the medium of instruction to Bahasa Malaysia resulted in a
general lack of interest in English and a deterioration in English
proficiency among students, teacher and parents, particularly in
rural areas. Many students in primary schools, where Chinese or
Tamil are the media of instruction and Bahasa Malaysia is taught as
a second language, have difficulty in transferring to secondary
schools where Bahasa Malaysia is the only medium of instruction.
The Government has provided an extra year of language training after
grade 6 in "Transition Classes" for non-native-Malay s;eakers.
However, their linguistic difficulties can be definitely alleviated
only in subsequent grades.
(b) Teacher Training. In order to implement the KBSR, which requires
more preparation and correction time, the MOE has increased the
primary teacher:class ratio from 1.2:1 in 1983 to 1.5:1. While the
demand for teachers is expected to be largely met by 1995 (para.
2.7), the quality of teachers still needs further improvement.
Unlike the former curriculum, the KBSR encourages teachers to be
innovative, instead of following a prescribed set of textbooks,
prepare resource materials to encourage active learning, and teach
students grouped according to abilities. Although the TTCs have
started incorporating pedagogy courses required for teaching the
KBSR, such as subject integration, instructional technology,
resource materials production, and multigroup and multigrade
teaching, some teachers presently on the job are not fully familiar
with the new teaching techniques and do not yet make full use of the
RCs (para. 2.16). Fewer than half of the teachers in small,
underenrolled schools in Peninsular Malaysia and Sabah are using
multigrade teaching techniques. These techniques are still taught
only as a theoretical adjunct to training programs in TTCs. They
are not utilized in Sarawak although this State has a particularly
large number of underenrolled schools. A survey has also shown that
teachers who visit RCs do not make full use of the more
sophisticated equipment with which they are not familiar. However,
it is expected that all teachers will be adequately qualified by
1995 through the improved training and upgrading programs presently
being implemented. In secondary education, the academic level of
instruction needs to be raised through a larger proportion of
graduate teachers, particularly in lower secondary education. Only
about one-third of all secondary teachers are university graduates,
with an estimated 76X in upper secondary, and 6X in lower secondary
education.



-9-
(c) Educational Resources. The shortage of resources is being progress-
ively alleviated under the First Sector Project by provision of
students' library books, teaching and learning materials and equip-
ment to receive radio and TV programs from the Educational Technolo-
gy Division (para. 2.15). To make full use of the equipment, many
schools have converted existing classrooms into Resource Centers and
TV rooms resulting in fewer ordinary classrooms.
(d) Facilities. The rapid expansion of education (para. 2.4) has been
achieved through the intensive utilization of scbiols resulting in a
large number of oversized classes and double shi.i.ng. Contrary to
government policy, the number of oversized classes (above 40
students) has increased over the last two years from 19,000 to
22,200 (32% of the total) in primary schools and from 7,000 to 8,400
(23X) in secondary schools. This problem is particularly acute in
urban areas. Double shifting has been gradually reduced through the
provision of additional classrooms in districts below the national
average in terms of schooling facilities. Howevers on average,
about one-third and 60% of primary and secondary classes,
respectively, Es compared with 55% and 80% in 1985, have still to
double shift.-   This results in a reduction of instruction time by
10%; precludes extracurricular activities which are an integral part
of the regular school programs; and generates commuting hardships to
students living far from school. This detrimentally affects active
teaching/learning processes which require more time and space to
allow for small group instruction and greater student-teacher
interaction.
2.20      Efficiency of Educational Management.  While the major ongoing
research and evaluation studies under the First Sector Project will help
improve monitoring and control of the major sectoral issues, the management of
the education system is still affected by two major issues, namely staff
constraints and inefficient utilization of school facilities.
(a) Staff Constraints. The rapid growth of the school population is
presenting new problems for planning and administration of the
education sector. Consequently, the qualifications of MOE staff
need to be upgraded to ensure cost-efficient fozmulation,
implementation, management and evaluation of educational policies
and programs. Through the First Sector Project, approximately 500
key education officers and managers are expected to be trained
through long- and short-term fellowships.  In addition, the National
Institute of Educational Management (NIEM), recently renamed
Aminuddin Baki Institute, provides upgrading and induction courses
to about 9,000 educational and manageria. staff annually.  However,
a number of specializations are still insufficiently developed to
8/   Double shifting affects only the use of facilities.  It does not affect
teachers' workloads, as different teachers are assigned to morning and
afternoon shifts.



- 10 -
ensure efficient educational management and teaching methodology in
critical subjects.
(b)  Inefficient Utilization of School Facilities.  Contrary to
government policy, the number of small underenrolled schools -
(2,561) has not yet been reduced nor has the class size in these
schools been increased from a low average of 16, because of the
large number of dispersed rural communities. The ongoing school
mapping exercise under the First Sector Project, in Sabah and
Sarawak, where the majority of small dispersed schools are located,
is expected to alleviate the situation. Furthermore, the MOE has
started implementing a Bank recommendation to develop a more cost-
efficient classroom size. The resulting savings will be used to
build more schools and to improve the quality of construction and
the classroom environment.
2.21      Access to Quality Education.  The issues relating to access to
quality education are imbalance in the distribution of adequate academic
facilities, and insufficient provision of student and staff accommodation.
(a) Dittribution of Academic Facilities. As of 1987, the Government's
efferts, supported by successful Bank projects (para. 2.37), have
resulted in a dramatic improvement in availability of educational
facilities. Average student:classroom ratios improved from 46:1 to
40:1 in primary and from 61:1 to 53:1 in secondary schools between
1983 and 1987. However, in some districts the student:classroom
ratio may still reach up to 85:1, which is beyond the critical level
of overcrowding. There also has been an improvement in classroom:
class ratios from 73Z to 84% in primary and from 60Z to 69% in
secondary education. This means, however, that the proportion of
double-shift classes is still high (para. 2.19(d)). Moreover,the
differences in classroom:class ratios among states are wide. These
ratios range from 100Z to 16X in primary and from 92X to 67Z in
secondary education (Annex 3, Tables 1 and 2). Differences are
still more acute at the district level (Annex 4, Tables 1 and 2).
(b) Student and Staff Accommodation. A minimal 2Z of primary students
and about 1OZ of secondary students are accommodated at school.
Although the cost of boarding is high, it is required to (i) ensure
universal primary education, (ii) enroll in secondary education able
students from the poorest segments of the population, who otherwise
could not have access, and (iii) recruit teacher trainees on a
national basis according to government policy. Staff housing is
presently provided to about 91 of primary and 71 of secondary
teachers, most of whom serve in rural schools. Shortage of staff
housing in disadvantaged areas results in a high turnover of
9i   Schools with an enrollment below 150 students.  In such schools, the
teacher:class ratio is 1:1 plus one headmaster with a partial teaching
assignment.



- 11 -
qualified teachers. While provision of teachers' quarters places an
additional burden on the investment budget, the benefits are
increased commitment and efficiency of teachers in the most remote
areas of Malaysia where communications and living conditions are
extremely poor. Although the First Sector Project will add a
sizeable number of students' hostels and staff quarters, this would
be insufficient to implement government policy in view of enrollment
increases and the subsequent additional demand for teachers
(para. 2.19(b)).
Government's Objectives and Strategy
2.22      As a basis for the First Sector Project, the Bank agreed to a letter
of policy for primary and secondary education development, dated March 5,
1986, stating the Government's objectives and strategy, together with a plan
of action on policy and institutional development for the 10-year period 1986-
95 (Annex 5). The policy aims at improving the quality of education and sub-
sequently students' achievement; increasing managerial efficiency at all
levels of educational administration; and expanding access to improved
education equitably throughout the country.
2.23      Quality of Education.  To address qualitative issues (para. 2.19),
the Government's strategy calls for improvements in curricula, teacher
training, educational resources and facilities.
(a) Curricula. The KBSR was introduced in Standard One in 1983 and will
be taught in all primary grades by 1988. The KBSR aias at the
overall growth of an individual, and emphasizes mastery of reading,
writing and arithmetic, and the acquisition of knowledge and skills
through attractive and meaningful activities which are relevant and
useful to the students.  To avoid the previous subject dispersion
(para. 2.19(a)), the KBSR is based on subject integration under
broad headings, namely basic skills, Humanity and environment, moral
and spiritual values and citizenship, art and recreation, manual
skills, and extracurricular activities to improve students'
responsibility towards their schools, environment and communities.
To improve continuity between levels of education, a new secondary
school curriculum (KBSM), to follow upon the KBSR lines, is being
introduced in 1988.  The KBSM will be oriented towards general
education and teaching/learning strategies focusing on citizenship
qualities and national unity as well as relevant knowledge,
creativity, moral and religious values, and integrated skills s-ited
to modern living, including manual and business skills, social and
general sciences, and computer education.
(b)  Teachers.  Primary and secondary teacher training programs are being
reoriented to the requirements of the new curricula, namely:
integrated subjects, multigroup teaching based on students'
aptitudes, remedial instruction, specialized training to teach
Bahasa Malaysia as a first language and English as a second
language, act.'vity-oriented teaching methods, student achievement
evaluation tecaniques, and teaching/learning materials development



- 12 -
and production. The objective is to supply primary and secondary
schools with a better qualified and creative teaching force by
1995. The current teacher:class ratio (para. 2.19(b)) allows
teachers sufficient time to prepare their courses, correct students'
assignments, lead extracurricular activities, and provide remedial
instruction under the new curricula. A number of studies indicate
that more time spent by teachers on class preparation and close
evaluation of students' assignments result in improved quality of
instruction and students' achievements.-07 It is intended that all
schools will be staffed by teachers with special functions such as
remedial instruction, guidance and counseling, library servicer,
sports and media (Annex 5, section 1.05). The main objective of
these teachers is to take care of students' needs outside academic
instruction. With regard to the improvement of academic standards
in secondary education, the academic qualifications of the teaching
force are progressively upgraded through the provision of an
increasing number of university graduate teachers so that eventually
90Z of upper secondary teachers ant gX0 of lower secondary teachers
will be university degree holders- LI   Studies conducted in several
countries, and in Malaysia in particular, indicate that teachers'
total years of schooling and teacher training will raise verbal
skills and tem2ing effectiveness, leading to higher students'
achievements.
(c) Educational Resources. As the new curricula, based on teachers' and
students' creativity, require the availability of teaching/learning
materials, the Government's policy is to provide all primary schools
with resource facilities by 1995, including a library, audiovisual
equipment and media facilities (para. 2.19(c)). District RCs
(para. 2.16) would also be adequately equipped to provide
educational technology and staff upgrading support to individual
schools. It is generally recognized that availability of texts,
reading materials and instructional media, the active use of
libraries, and better physical facilities provide more motivating
conditions for learning and therefore raise students' achievements.
(d) Facilities. The Government's policy is to adjust class size to the
educational requirements of the new curricula, and to alleviate
double shifting, particularly in secondary education, whenever it is
10/ B. Fuller, "Raising School Quality in Developing Countries: What
Investments Boost Learning?," Discussion Paper, Education and Training
Series, World Bank, 1985, pages 51, 52 and 79.
11/ The intermediate target for 1990 is that 85X of upper secondary teachers
and 10 of lower secondary teachers should be university graduates.
12/ B. Fuller, pages 44 and 45.



- 13 -
detrimental to instruction or students' achievements.131 With
regard to class size, the two prongs of the government strategy for
1995 are: (i) to reduce class size eventually to 40, considered as
a maximum for efficient class management using multigroup teaching
methods under the new activity-oriented curricula (para. 2.19(d));
and (ii) to consolidate underenrolled schools (para. 2.20(b)) :o the
extent possible into more economical units with a minimum enrollment
of 150 students each, and an average class size of about 24 instead
of the current 16. The intermediate objectives for 1990 are to
reduce the size of the 10,000 classes, currently averaging 48
students each, to 45, and to increase the 'verage class size in
underenrolled schools to about 18. The Government plans virtually
to eliminate double shifting from primary education and reduce it
considerably in secondary education, with respective classroom:class
ratios reaching 95% and 85% by 1995. In a first step, the
Government is concentrating on expanding facilities in those schools
where double shifting prevents normal delivery of the curricula and
causes hardships for commuting students, detrimental to their
learning process (para. 2.31).
2.24      Efficiency of Educational Management.  To address managerial issues
(para. 2.20), the Government has initiated a comprehensive staff development
program; cost efficiency measures; and better coordination of monitoring and
evaluation activities.
(a) Staff Development Program. So far about 20,500 education officers
and headmasters have been trained at N,EM (para. 2.20(a)) which has
also been instrumental in launching quality control circles at all
levels of the educational management structure. NIEM has also
established linkages with a network of foreign universities which
arrange for fellowship placement and provision of specialist
services for local training. The Government has expanded these
activities into a comprehensive program to improve the quality of
educational development, management and evaluation in MOE divisions,
SEDs, DEOs, RCs and schools. Key officers are being enrolled in a
variety of training programs ranging from master's degree to short
courses abroad and locally. During the 1986-95 period, a staff
development program will fill key positions at NIEM, and in
ministerial divisions, SEDs, DEOs and RCs, and will address the
13/ In "The Production Surface for Academic Achievement: An Economic Study
of the Malaysian Secondary Education," University of Wisconsin, 1972,
H. Beebout's findings are that (a) fewer students per teacher will
improve the quality of interaction and raise students' achievement, and
(b) more than one shift of classes per day will strain the effectiveness
of resources and lower achievement. Bridge, Judd and Moock (1979) also
indicate that more total hours spent in school on instructional activi-
ties will boost achievement. In many Malaysian schools, the instruction
time normally required to deliver the curricula has to be reduced due to
double shifting. See also B. Fuller, pp. 36, 76 and 79.



- 14 -
needs of some 116,000 education officers and clerks, of whom 12,000
will be headmasters.
(b)  Cost-Efficiency Measures.  The Government aims at red._cing the
number of underenrolled primary schools; implementing more cost-
efficient school construction designs and standards without lowering
school quality or increasing maintenance costs; increasing the
utilization rates of secondary school facilities to no less than 802
for classrooms, and 752 for workshops and laboratories; and improv-
ing multigrade teaching to increase class size (para. 2.23(d)).
(c)  Monitoring and Evaluation.  EPRD (para. 2.12) has established an
efficient data gathering and analysis system which has enabled it to
produce complete education statistics for the period 1980-85 and a
statistical yearbook for 1986. These statistics, based on gender,
enable the MOE to monitor progress in female participation in the
education development process (para. 2.5). EPRD will continue to
produce statistical yearbooks and annual evaluation reports for the
annual Government-Bank project implementation review ir. March.
EPRD, through its Monitoring Unit, is also responsible for
coordinating the evaluation and research studies carried out by
universities under the First Sector Project on teachers' attributes
and effectiveness; the utilization of facilities; progress in the
distribution of facilities and rez:urces, particularly .n Sabah and
Sarawak; the relationships between educational inputs, socio-
economic factors, and the quality and efficiency of education;
national integration through education; and the evaluation of
educational me'ia, textbooks, examinations and testing, and
students' employment following ski'll training.
2.25      Access to Quality Education.  To alleviate the present imbalance in
educational opportunities (para. 2.21), the Government plans to: (a) provide
adequate school and educational resource facilities with priority given to the
districts where their number and adequacy are below the national average, and
raise this average gradually, as equitably as possible throughout the country;
(b) achieve nine years of universal schooling (para. 2.3), and reach a second-
ary enrollment ratio of 772 by 1990 and over 802 by 1995, as compared with 722
in 1986 (Annex 6); (c) provide boarding to able secondary students from the
poorest segments of the population, who otherwise could not have access to
secondary education, and also to primary students in rural areas, wherever it
is the only feasible means to maintain universal education and consolidate
uneconomically small schools; and (d) provide staff housing to teachers in
rural areas to improve their living conditions and thereby slow down the
rotation of qualified and experienced teachers in these areas.
Government's Program
2.26      To carry out the above strategies, the Government formulated a 10-
year education development program covering the period 1986-95 and including
two five-year budgetary phases. The first pnase coincides with the Fifth
Malaysia Plan (1986-90) during which primary and secondary education develop-
ment will be mostly financed by the First Sector Project to be complemented by



- 15 -
the proposed project. The second phase will coincide with the next develop-
ment ;lan under preparation. The original 10-year program amounted to
US$3.5 billion equivalent, of which US$1.7 billion was proposed for the Fifth
Malaysia Plan (1986-90). Fiscal constraints (paras. 1.6 and 1.7) have
compelled the Government to scale down its original program to US$1.55
billion. However, priority is still being given to primary and general
secondary education. The Fifth Malaysia Plan budget, revised as of November
1987, provides an investment program for primary and general secondary
education amounting to US$769.5 million equivalent, as shown in Table 1 below,
which aims at alleviating the most serious deficiencies in line with available
resources.
2.27      The program is distributed into amounts earmarked for externally-
assisted projects and for locally-financed projects, as follows:
Table 1: DEVELOPMENT BUDGET FOR PRiMARY AND GENERAL
SECONDARY EDUCATION (1986-90)
(US$ million equivalent)
External         Local
assistance     financing      Total
Primary education                    214.4            89.7        304.1
Secondary education                   187.5          143.0        330.5
Teacher training                       71.2           20.4         91.6
Boarding facilities                    19.7            2.8         22.5
Staff housing                          12.0            8.8         20.8
Total                            504.8           264.7        769.5
2.28      The externally-assisted component is in turn distributed over donors
as follows: (a) the ongoing Bank-financed First Sector Project: US$310.7
million equivalent; (b) the proposed Second Primary and Secondary Education
Sector Project: US$159.8 million; (c) the Saudi Fund for Development, focuss-
ing on religious secondary education: US$15.8 million; and (d) the Islamic
Development Bank, concentrating on teacher training: US$18.5 million. The
two Bank-financed sector projects, totalling US$470.5 million, would account
for 93% of the externally assisted component o4 the MOE's 1986-90 development
budget for primary and secondary education, and 61% of the entire MOE
subsectoral development budget for the period.
2.29      The support extended by the Bank to the various project components,
summarized in Table 2 below, reflects the emphasis rightly placed by the
Government on the priority needs of the subsector.



- 16 -
Table 2: DANK-FINANCED EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECTS
(US$ million)
Proposed
First Project    Second Project       Total
Amount     Z      Amount       z   Amount
I
Primary education            92.6      30       52.9       33    145.5      31
Secondary education          94.8      31       73.6       46    168.4      36
Teacher training             52.6      17         -         -     52.6      11
Boarding facilities          12.9       4        7.7        5     20.6       4
Staff housing                 8.2       3        3.9        2     12.1       3
Resource centers             42.1      13       18.6       12     60.7      13
Staff development             6.8       2        3.1        2      9.9       2
Research studies              0.7    (0.2)        -         -      0.7   (0.1)
Total              310.7 /a  100      159.8       100    470.5    100
/a   The difference between the cost of the First Sector Project at appraisal
(US$312.8 million equivalent), and the lower figure given in Table 2
arises from the difference in the fereign exchange rate at appraisal
(K$2.46=US$1.00) and the present rate (H$2.50=US$1.00), as well as the
exchange rate actually prevailing during project implementation.
Assessment of the Program
2.30      The Government's policy and plan of action, as embodied in the
revised Fifth Malaysia Plan, are educationally sound. They have been
carefully devised to attain specific and feasible goals. The scaled-down
investment program (para. 2.26) remains substantial and sets the right
priorities in the MOE's objectives for 1986-90. The First Sector Project
includes: (a) implementation of a new primary curriculum (para. 2.23(a));
(b) provision of three teacher training colleges enabling the MOE to train a
sufficient number of teachers in appropriate facilities for the foreseeable
future (para. 2.7); (c) provision of library books and teaching/learning
equipment and materials for most primary schools and district RCs, as required
by the practical orientation of the new curriculum cn which the whole qualita-
tive reform of education is based (para. 2.23(c)); (d) training of over 500
key education managera and specialists (para. 2.24(a)); (e) research, evalua-
tion and tracer studies on the major issues affecting the sector (para.
2.24(c)); and (f) provision of about 4,500 classrooms and related boarding and
staff-housing facilities, to be added to the 5,500 classrooms under separate
local financing. These school facilities will enable the MOE to enroll a
total of 2.32 milliou primary students and 1.37 million secondary students,
allowing for virtual universalization of primary education, and 90Z and 28Z
enrollment ratios in lower and upper secondary education, respectively, by



- 17 -
i988 (para. 2.25). This program would also increase the classroom:class
ratios from 842 in 1986, when the project started, to 862 in 1988 for primary
education, and from 69Z to 74Z for secondary education. The average numbers
of students per classroom would be reduced from 40 to 39 in primary education
and in secondary education from 53 to 49 (pare. 2.23(d)).
2.31      The proposed project would complement the First Sector Project
through: (a) implementation of a new junior secondary curriculum
(para. 2.30(a)); (b) construction of RCs to accommodate the resource equipment
and materials provided under the First Sector Project and presently utilized
*.n temporary premises (para. 2.30(c)); (c) training of about 7,400 additional
key educators, trainers, advisors and managers, as required by 1990
(para. 2.30(d)); and (d) provision of about 4,400 additional classrooms to
anable the MOE to enroll a total of 2.42 million primary students and 1.45
million secondary students. This would maintain universal primary education
and would raise lower and upper secondary education enrollment ratios to 92X
and 301, respectively.  This would expand school facilities in districts where
shortages of facilities are most acute.  The average classroom:class ratio in
primary education would be maintained at 85Z with an acceptable 39 students
per classroom despite a school population growth by about 100,000 between 1988
and 1990.  In secondary education, the classroom:class ratio would reach 76X
and the average number of students per classroom would be further reduced to
48, despite an enrollment increase of about 80,000 over the same two-year
period. However, the limitation of investment funds would not permit an
increase in classroom:class ratios to the desirable 902 and 80%, as originally
expected by 1990 (para. 2.30 (f)).
2.32      By 1995, the government 10-year plan of action would be completed
through: (a) implementation of the complete new secondary curriculum;
(b) provision of state and district RCs to cover the whole country, which
would require nine new state RCs and about 100 additional district RCs;
(c) further training of key educators and managers (para. 2.24(a)); and
(d) provision of classrooms and related facilities to enroll a total of 2.71
million primary students and 1.63 million secondary students in order to
universalize a nine-year basic education cycle (including primary and lower
secondary education) and enroll over one-third of the relevant age-group in
upper secondary education. To reach this objective and the planned 952 and
852 classroom:class ratios in primary and secondary education, respectively
(para. 2.23(d)), would require an additional 18,000 classrooms.  If current
financial constraints persist, reaching the above target is doubtful.  The
respective 90% and 80% ratios, the original 1990 targets (para. 2.31(d)),
would require 12,000 additional classrooms, which would be more feasible.
2.33      The difficult budgetary situation has also affected recurrent
budgetary support to the development program. The stated policy of an overall
salary review and upgrading every five years has not been implemented, the
most recent adjustment being a 10-15% basic pay increase for all civil
servants in 1980.  An adjustment was given in 1985 in small amounts for the
lowest paid employees. Teaching posts constitute one of the few exceptions to
the policy of not creating or filling posts, and teachers were among those who
benefited most from the limited 1985 adjustment.



- 18 -
2.34      It is clear that the present situation cannot continue indefinitely
and it is necessary to consider possibilities for increasing recurrent
budgetary support to attract the best college students to the teaching
profession, and to provide schools with an optimum learning environment.
Teachers, who constitute the largest single group of government employees,
receive relatively low salaries. Their salary structure and career
advancement also need to be reviewed to raise the level of competence. As
possibilities for advancement are limited due to the large number of regular
teachers and the relatively few senior-level posts, qualified teachers who
reach the maximum of their salary range will often take early retirement. The
ongoing study on teachers' attributes and effectiveness under the First Sector
Project will provide recommendations on this issue.
2.35      The budget for maintenance and other non-salary recurrent expenses
has not kept pace with inflation and is not sufficient to keep schools in
optimum operating conditions.  In the 1988 budget, while the allocation to
staff compensation has continued to increase, the allocations to services and
supplies, and grants and fixed charges, have even been reduced for the first
time in recent years. Therefore, reasonable budgetary increases are necessary
as early as possible to maintain facilities -nd to obtain the maximum benefits
from the new development outlays (para. 4.8).
2.36      Taking the abave conditions into consideration, the MOE recurrent
budget would represent an estimated 20.41 of the total federal recurrent
budget in 1991, when the Fifth Malaysia Plan programs are completed (Annex 7),
as compared with 192 in 1988. This increased share is within the historic
budgetary limits (262 in 1972). In addition, the Government considers the
proposed development of the primary and secondary education subsector as one
of the top priorities and is prepared to meet its recurrent budgetary implica-
tions.
Experience with Past Bank Lending to Education and Bank Objectives
..37      The Government's present overall education policy and strategies are
the result of a long-term continuing prucess which the Bank his already sup-
ported through nine educatioL loans since 1969 for a total amount of US$405.4
million. This lending program has aimed at expanding and improving basic
education, and providing trained manpower for socio-economic development
through support to primary, secondary and higher education, teacher training,
and technical/vocational training at secondary and postsecondary levels. The
proposed project follows more specifically upon the Third, Fourth, Fifth and
Eighth Education Projects (Loans 974-MA, 1329-MA, 1657-MA and 2685-MA) which
aimed at: (a) improving the quality and efficiency of primary and secondary
education through the development of the curricula which are being implemented
presently; teacher and managerial staff training; and expansion of educational
resources and media; and (b) achieving a more balanced distribution of
educational opportunities through the provision of 1,150 primary and 170
secondary schools, including boarding and staff housing.
2.38      Significant Bank support has also been given to institution build-
ing.  The manpower, authority and management skills of MOE's Development and
Supplies Division (DSD), which has been in charge of planning and implementing



- 19 -
the nine education loans, was strengthened. The improvement of DSD has been
reflected in the implementation of the newer projects which are largely on, or
ahead of, schedule. Also, the establishment of NIEM has improved efficiency
in the management of the education system (para. 2.24 (a)). The capability of
universities to produce high caliber evaluations of completed Bank projects
has been instrumental in improving the design of new projects. The Bank has
also assisted the MOE's Curriculum Development Center and Educational
Technology Division which are now among the best in the region.
2.39      The Bank's Operatj4s Evaluation Department's audit report and
project completion reports,-  prepared for the first four education projects,
concluded that these projects were successfully implemented overall and their
educational objectives were achieved. Other significant points were the need
for: (a) strengthening the staff and authority of the project implementation
unit; and (b) acquiring sites at an early stage in project processing. These
lessons were incorporated into the design of the following education
projects. Review of progress with the implementation of recent projects has
also shown that the MOE's administrative and technical capacity for managing
the development of the education sector is excellent. However, difficulties
in timely acquisition of suitable land persist, especially in Sabah and
Sarawak. Also, current financial constraints and the high foreign exchange
cost of overseas fellowships have resulted in the Government's action to
expand and improve domestic higher education, which is partly supported by the
University Development Project (Loan 2887-MA), and to limit the number of
overseas fellowships in favor of local training.
Rationale for Bank Lending to Primary and Secondary Education
2.40      The proposed project would continue Bank assistance to the primary
and secondary education subsector being supported by the First Sector Project,
under Lnan No. 2685-MA signed in May 1986, which assists the Government in
initiating the implementation of its policy durirg the first half of the Fifth
Malaysia Plan period. Overall progress with policy implementation is
satisfactory and the proposed project would assist in addressing outstanding
issues. Its size and the respective weights of its inputs are consistent with
the most urgent needs and government priorities in the education sector. The
Bank loan would fill the resource gap in the subsector for the remainder of
the Fifth Malaysia Plan period.
2.41      The project would also build upon the long-standing cooperation
between the Government and the Bank, which has -ontributed to effective
educational development. The project would encourage the Government to
continue its long-term constructive cooperation and dialogue with the Bank on
future institutional changes for the education sector, which would address the
14/ Project Performance Audit Report No. Sec M79-408 of June 1, 1979 (First
Education Project), Project Completion Report No. 4471 of October 1981,
revised March 1983 (Second Education Project), and draft Project
Completion Reports of September 24, 1984 and October 1985 (Third and
Fourth Education Projects, respectively).



- 20 -
need for expansion and improvement of education, related fiscal implications,
and efficient implementation. The realistic and balanced scaling down of the
original 1986-90 education development program, in particular, constitutes a
positive outcome of this dialogue.
2.42      Primary and secondary education are the subsectors where the need
for improvement in quality and efficiency is the greatest: they involve the
majority of students (97? of total enrollments) and education costs (71% of
the MOE budget, including related teacher training), and they are the
foundation on which the effectiveness of the whole education structure
depends. In addition, the Government has embarked on a major program to
industrialize the country, looking to Korea, Japan and other developed
countries where higher enrollment ratios and quality of education were
instrumental in making technology transfer highly effective and in reaching
higher levels of industrial growth and diversification. In Malaysia,
comparable education development might result in some unemployment among
secondary school graduates and educational cost overruns. However, this risk
is offset by Malaysia's economic orientation which provides a strong rationale
to strengthen the education base.
2.43      The MOE's increasing efficiency has been demonstrated by the
implementation of the First Sector Project, which is well ahead of schedule,
and the expeditious preparation of the proposed project. This augurs well for
the success of the project, the scope of which is well within the MOE's
implementation capacity. The timing of the proposed project is appropriate:
as most of the ongoing First Sector Project will taper off towards completion
in 1988, the proposed project would maintaia the MOE's implementation capacity
at an optimum level and would sustain the momentum of the program.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Description
3.1       The proposed project is designed to help accelerate the policy and
institutional changes described in the Government's letter of policy
(para. 2.22) which sets out the Government's perception of the issues
affecting primary and secondary education, and states its objectives in
alleviating the deficiencies. These objectives are to: (a) improve the
quality of education, (b) increase the efficiency of educational management,
and (c) expand access to better primary and secondary education, with priority
given to areas of greatest need in terms of schooling facilities.
3.2       The proposed project would constitute the second sector investment
loan within the Government's 10-year development program (para. 2.26) for
primary and secondary education and would include: (a) a national-level
program for staff development, addressing the needs of the whole Federation of
Malaysia, to be carried out by central education authorities; and (b) five
state-level programs to be implemented by state agencies, addressing the
specific needs of the various states for primary schools, secondary schools,
boarding, staff housing and RCs, respectively. In both cases, federal, state
and district authorities would operate in close cooperation. Their respective
responsibilities are given in Annex 8.



- 21 -
3.3       The national-level staff development program would include two
subprojects: (a) fellowships abroad, and (b) local training programs. The
five state-level programs would include a total of 61 subprojects, namely:
(i) 14 subprojects for construction, furnishing and equipping of primary
schools; (ii) 14 subprojects for construction, furnishing and equipping of
secondary schools; (iii) 10 subprojects for constraction, furnishing and
equipping of boarding facilities; (iv) 9 subprojects for construction of staff
housing; and (v) 14 subprojects to construct and furnish RCs. Total project
funds, including contingencies, would be allocated by program as follows:
US$ mln   As Z of total
National-Level Program
Staff Development                               3.1             2
State-Level Programs:
Primary education                              52.9            33
Secondary education                            73.6            46
Boarding facilities                             7.7             5
Staff housing                                   3.9             2
Education resource centers                     18.6            12
Subtotal                                   156.7            98
Total                                      159.8           100
A detailed breakdown is given in Annex 9.
3.4       The following paragraphs describe these programs in relation to how
they would contribute to the Government's objectives of improving the quality
of education, increasing the efficiency of educational management and
expanding access to better education. In general, the national staff
development program aims to improve the efficiency of educational management,
whereas the state-level programs emphasize expansion and quality enhancement
of primary and secondary education, along with some cost efficiency
measures. About 68Z of total project costs would be allocated to expansion. of
this system and about 30Z to quality enhancement. Expenditures for efficiency
improvement through the staff development program would amount to only about
2Z of project costs. Annex 10 provides details of costs by subproject in
relation to project objectives.
Improving the Quality of Education
3.5       Resource Centers Program.  The program would include 14 state level
subprojects providing physical facilities for Resource Centers (RCs) to be
added to 295 of the 350 primary schools which have been selected to
accommodate RCs (para. 2.16). These schools are being provided with library
books, furniture, audio-visual and other educational materials, and
teaching/learning aid production equipment under the First Sector Project.
There are acceptable facilities for the use of resource materials and
equipment in 55 of the above schools. In the other 295, the conversion of



- 22 -
classrooms into resource and media facilities to accommodate equipment and
materials has resulted in constraints on school capacity, and subsequent
double shifting and overcrowding. The construction of RCs would release
converted classrooms which would be reverted to their original teaching
purpose. Two hundred RCs would be district centers serving about 20 satellite
schools each in the surrounding neighborhood, and 95 would be school RCs
primarily serving their own respective schools.
3.6       The program is expected to improve the standard and quality of
universal primAary education for about 2.4 million children by 1990. Since
major emphasis is placed on the use of educational resources and teachers'
permanent upgrading to promote active teaching and learning, the provision of
adequate facilities for RCs is crucial to implement the practical orientation
of the KBSR successfully.
3.7       Schools Programs.  The provision of adequate classrooms would reduce
double shifting and overcrowding, and thereby would contribute to improving
the quality of education. However, it would primarily serve the policy
objective of increasing access to better education, as described in para. 3.11
below.
3.8       Staff Housing Program.  The nine state subprojects within the
program would include a total of 290 staff housing units in 51 schools (32
primary and 19 secondary) in dispersed rural and semi-urban locations to
accommodate about 1,200 teachets. The provision of adequate accommodation is
expected to help recruit and retain qualified teachers to teach in hardship
areas and to provide an incentive resulting in greater motivation and better
teaching.
Increasing the Efficiency of Educational Management
3.9       Staff Development Program.  The two subprojects of the program would
include: (a) 34 staff-years of fellowships abroad for master's degree train-
ing in specific educational, technical and managerial fields which are not
available in Malaysia; and (b) local t .ning programs for 7,400 key educa-
tors, trainers, advisors and managers. _' The program would focus on speci-
fic, practical techniques in training, administration and management, such as
evaluation, educational planning, education finance, management system analy-
sis, supervision/leadership/advisory services, managerial techniques, educa-
tional technologies, distance education media, computer science and secondary
school curriculum development with particular regard to language instruction,
integrated sciences and manual skills. During negotiations, agreement was
reached on overseas and local training programs, and their terms of reference
and timetables for the related fellowships (para. 7.2(a)).
15/ About 800 school principals; 4,900 trainers; and 1,700 key teachers,
teacher training specialists, resource staff, DEO, SED and MOE officers
and managers, inspectors, examination officers, and senior clerks.



- 23 -
3.10      Cost-Efficiency Measures.  The project would help consolidate
underenrolled schools through extension of those with constantly increasing
enrollments, while those without future prospect of growth would not be
replaced. More cost-efficient classroom space standards would also be applied
to project schools. During negotiations, agreement was reached on such
standards for classes of 40 students or fewer under the project
(para. 7.2(b)). Moreover, multigrade teaching techniques would be expanded
and would systematically be introduced in underenrolled schools to increase
class size. During negotiations, the Government provided an assurance that
multigrade teaching techniques would be included as an integral part of the
teacher training college curriculum for primary teachers and would be applied
to the extent possible in schools where classes enroll fewer than 20 students
each (para. 7.1(a)).
Expanding Access to Better Education
3.11      Schools Programs.  The programs would finance the construction,
equipping and furnishing of primary and secondary schools, and related board-
ing and staff housing facilities in 13 states and the Federal Territory as
follows:
No. of     No. of      No. of    No. of         Enroll-    Teacher
projects   schools   classrooms  classes /a   ments /b   needs /c
Primary         14          240       2,090     2,460         82,100     3,700
Secondary       14          150       2,320     3,050        110,500     5,200
Total         28          390       4,410     5,510        192,600     8,900
/a   Taking partial double shifting into account on the basis of expected 1990
average primary and secondary classroom:class ratios of 85% and 76%,
respectively.
/b   On the basis of expected average primary and secondary student:class ratios of
33.4:1 and 36.2:1, respectively.
/c   On the basis of expected average primary and secondary teacher:class ratios of
1.5:1 and 1.7:1, respectively.
About 84% of the above construction program would be for new facilities and
the remainder (about 700 classrooms) would replace unsafe facilities. lbout
165,000 new students would enter the education system through the programs
which would accommodate 4X of the planned primary and secondary enrollments in
1990 and would alleviate the most critical shortages of school facilities.
Priority would be given to new schools and extensions :o existing schools in
districts where availability of educational facilities will still be below the
national average upon completion of the First Sector Project and locally-
financed programs in 1988. Particular attention would be paid to the poorer
states (Annex 11). Similar priority would be given for the use of any savings



- 24 -
from the construction programs during implementation. Sabah and Sarawak, in
particular, are still generally lagging behind the rest of Malaysia despite
substantial development efforts in the past, and will remain at a disadvantage
even when the proposed project, as presently appraised, is completed. Thare-
fore, during negotiations, the Government provided an assurance that any
savings from construction programs during implementation would be effectively
used to further expand school construction in the most underprivileged
districts (para. 7.1 (b)). New facilities would also be built in new
settlement areas; and availability of sites, expected population migration,
specific requests and absorptive capacity of districts have also been taken
into consideration by the MOE Appraisal Committee.
3.12      The major problem preventing a number of districts, particularly in
Sabah and Sarawak, from receiving the full benefits of the school construction
program within the project time frame is the difficulty in timely acquisition
of suitable land. Therefore, during nesotiations, agreement was reached on
the use of project funds to purchase suitable sites in advance and staggered
school construction programs on these sites, to be continued under subsequent
development programs (para. 7.2(c)).
3.13      One of the major objectives of the programs is to reduce double
shifting to improve curriculum delivery and teachers' efficiency through
"decompressing" daily instruction timetables.  Therefore, during negotiations.
the Government provided an assurance that in schools where a single shift
would be reinstated, curricular and extracurricular activities would be spread
over the entire working day to the extent possible (para. 7.1(c)).
3.14      Boarding Program.  The 10 subprojects would add boarding facilities
to 16 existing schools in which the shortage of such facilities keeps
potentially able students from poor rural and urban areas from benefitting
from secondary education. About 2,800 boarding places would be provided under
the program.
Status of Project Preparation
3.15      A country-wide survey of educational needs was completed in March
1987 for the preparation of the proposed project. It comprised a detailed
list of school facilities by district, in conformity with the appraisal
guidelines and requirements agreed with the Bank, including, above all,
availability of sites. The list was adjusted by the MOE Appraisal Committee
to the amount of funds allocated to the subsector. The MOE has already
appraised in detail virtually all subprojects in cooperation with SEDs and in
conformity with the procedure for generating and processing programs and
subprojects (Chart 7), and guidelines and criteria established by the
Government in cooperation with the Bank (para. 5.5).   Sites have already been
acquired for virtually all schools except for Sabah and Sarawak (para.
3.12). The designs for RCs are complete and decisions have been made regard-
ing the location of the 295 proposed centers. Standard school designs and
equipment lists, adjusted to the new curricula, are used for primary and
secondary schools. Bidding and contract documents for civil works are being
prepared. Agreed bidding documerts, utilized for previous Bank education
loans with similar project components, continue to be used. The fellowship



-25 -
program and advertising for prospective candidates are being prepared in
accordance with the Government's policy; and contacts with foreign educational
institutions for the fellowship program under the First Sector Project are
utilized for the proposed new program.
3.16      At the time of negotiations:  (a) tender documents were completed
for the school construction program; (b) construction had started for an
estimated 20% of the schools and the tendering process had started for the
remainder; (c) the bidding documents for primary and secondary school equip-
ment, furniture and materials were under preparation; and (d) overseas
fellowship programs were being prepared while local training programs were
being finalized.
IV. INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND FINANCING
Costs and Financing
4.1       The project is estimated to cost US$159.8 million equivalent,
including US$146.4 million baseline costs and US$13.4 million contingencies.
The bulk of the project would be implemented in 1988-90, the last three years
of the Fifth Malaysia Plan, as shown in Annex 12. The distribution of funds
by category of expenditure is shown in Table 3 below. Baseline costs have
been adjusted to the date of negotiations. Costs include duties and taxes on
building materials amounting to an estimated US$3.7 million equivalent,
representing about 2.61 of civil works costs. Equipment and teaching
materials imported under the project would be exempt from duties and taxes.



- 26 -
Table 3: INVESTMENT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Foreign
M$ million              US$ million        exchange as
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Z of total
Civil works and related
professional services  215.7   116.1   331.8   86.4    46.4   132.8         35
Furniture                  10.3     3.4    13.7    4.1       1.4     5.5       25
Equipment                   1.3    12.1    13.4    0.5      4.8      5.3       90
Technical assistance:
Fellowship abroad         0.0     2.0      2.0    0.0     0.8      0.8      95
Local training            5.1     0.0      5.1    2.0     0.0      2.0        0
Subtotal               5.1     2.0     7.1    2.0      0.8      2.8      29
Baseline Cost        232.4   133.6   366.0   93.0    53.4   146.4        36
contingencies:
Physical                 11.6     6.7    18.3    4.6      2.7      1.3      37
Price increase            8.6     6.7    15.3    3.4      2.7      6.1      44
Subtotal              20.2    13.4    33.6    8.3      5.4    13.4       40
Total Progra  Cost  252.6   147.0   399.6  101.0    58.8   159.8         37
4.2       The Bank loan of US$58.8 million equivalent would finance the
foreign exchange component of the project cost, excluding duties and taxes.
The Government would finance the remaining costs of US$101.0 million equiva-
lent. The financing plan is shown in Table 4 below.



-27-
Table 4:  FINANCING PLAN
Government     IBRD       Total         Z IBRD
---------- (US$ million) ----------   financing
Civil works and related
professional services         86.4         46.4       132.8            35
Furniture                        4.1          1.4         5.5            25
Equipment                         0.5         4.8         5.3            90
Technical assistance
Fellowships abroad             0.0          0.8         0.8           100
Local training                 2.0          0.0         2.0             0
Subtotal                       2.0          0.8         2.8            29
Baseline Cost              93.0         53.4       146.4            36
Contingencies
Physical                       4.6          2.7         7.3            37
Price increase                 3.4          2.7         6.1            44
Subtotal                       8.0          5.4        13.4            40
Total Program Cost        101.0         58.8       159.8            37
4.3       Basis of Cost Estimates.  Construction costs for the primary and
secondary schools have been estimated at M$322 (US$129) per square meter due
to favorable construction market prices expected to prevail in the foreseeable
future. Site works have been estimated to cost from 10% to 20X of building
costs. These estimates are consistent with the recent costs of similar
schools under the ongoing First Sector Project, and allow for construction
costs in Sarawak and Sabah which would be higher than in Peninsular Malaysia,
due to higher labor costs, more extensive site works, less competition in
bidding and, above all, costly transportation, Furniture and equi Ment costs
are estimated on the basis of standard MOE mas;ter-lists and the experience of
previous similar project components, adjusted to the new curricula.  Unit
costs for overseas fellowships are estimated at about US$2,000 per staff-
month, all inclusive, on the basis of recent experience.  Local training costs
are estimated at an average US$380 per staff-month.
4.4       The unit areas and construction costs are virtually similar to, or
lower than, Bank median values, reflecting prevailing favorable construction
prices and economical standards (Annex 13).  However, in primary schools, unit
areas are slightly higher t-han Bank median values because of the specialized
facilities (including resource centers) needed to implement the new activity-
oriented curricula. Utilization rates for classrooms (80X to 85Z in secondary
schools and over 90% in primary schools), and workshops and laboratories (70%
to 75%) are cost-efficient.



- 28 -
4.5       Foreirn Exchange.  The foreign exchange component of US$58.8 mil-
lion, tspresenting 371 of the total project cost, excluding duties and taxes,
has been computed on the basis of 352 for civil works (36Z excluding duties
and taxes); 252 for furniture; 90Z for equipment; and 952 for overseas
fellowships.
4.6       Contingency Allowances.  Physical contingencies of 52 are based on
experience under the First Sector Project. Price contingencies, totalling
about 42 of base costs plus physical contingencies, were calculated in
accordance with the following expected average annual price increases: 2.12
for 1988, 2.8Z for 1989 and 1990, and 3.5Z '`or 1991, for domestic costs, and
for foreign costs: 3.0X for 1988 and 1989; 3.52 for 1990; and 42 for i991.
4.7       Incremental Recurrent Cost.  The annual recurrent cost associated
with the project, when all schools are operating at full capacity in 1991,
would be about US$58 million equivalent, at 1991 prices (Annex 14). Of these
about US$52 million equivalent woulc be for new facilities, i.e. excluding
replacement classrooms. This would represent about 3% of the MOE operating
budget, assuming that this budget grows at about 6% p.a. between 1988 and
1991, including real growth and inflation (para. 2.36).
4.8       Maintenance.  The practice has been for maintenance and other
operating expenditures to be allocated to schools through grants depending on
the total number of students per school and enrollment in certain courses
(science, arts, etc.).  On average, these allocations have been about M$14
(US$6 equivalent) per primary student and about M$22 (US$9 equivalent) per
secondary student. Previous Bank-financed facilities have, with few
exceptions, been well maintained. However, inflation has eroded the
purchasing power of these per capita allotments which have not changed since
the mid-19709, leading to comp'laints about inadequate operating supplies and
disrepair of facilities (para. 2.35). Therefore, during negotiations, the
Government provided an assurance that, subject to the country's financial
situation, in its 1989 budget, per capita grants would be increased to make up
for past erosion in their real value, and, subsequently, in amounts sufficient
to offset inflation, consistent with government price increase indicators
(para. 7.1(d)).
Procurement
4.9       As primary and secondary education facilities are dispersed over 80
districts and no single civil works contract is expected to exceed US$3.0 mil-
lion, they are unlikely to draw interest from international firms. Therefore,
civil works contracts (estimated to cost a total of US$144.7 million,
including contingencies) would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally (LCB) in which foreign firms would be allowed to
participate in accordance with the government procurement procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank. Malaysia's construction industry is large and
efficient, and eager to compete for such contracts under present circumstances
in the sluggish construction sector; and all civil works in the first six
projects relating to primary and secondary education have been awarded to
local contractors even though foreign firms were allowed to tender. The
project procurement arrangements are shown in Table 5 below.



- 29 -
Table 5: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(in IrS$ million)
Category of                                                        Total cost
expenditure                                                        including
(Z FX)                                ICB      LCB       Other  contingencies
Civil works and related
professional services                 -     144.7         -        144.7
(35%)                                 -     (51.0)        -        (51.0)
Furniture                              0.3      5.1        0.6/a       6.0
(25%)                               (0.1)    (1.3)      (0.13F      (1.5)
Equipment                              3.9       1.2       0.9/a       6.0
(90Z)                               (3.5)    (1.1)      (0.8T       (5.4)
Fellowships                             -        -         3.1/b       3.1
(95Z)                                 -        -        (0.9Tr      (0.9)
Total                             4.2    151.0        4.6       159.8
(3.6)   (53.4)     (1.8)       (58.8)
/a  Miscellaneous items, instructional materials and books procured on the
basis of three price quotations or existing government contracts for bulk
procurement.
/b Negotiated contracts.
Note: Figures in parentheses refer to loan allocations.
4.10      Equipment and furniture would be grouped to the extent possible into
attractive bid packages to facilitate bulk procurement. Packages estimated to
cost US$200,000 equivalent or more would be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank gjidelines. In bid
comparison, goods manufactured domestically would be allowed a preferential
margin of 15% of the c.i.f. costs of competing imports or the actual customs
duties, whichever is lower. Below this threshold, equipment and furniture
packages which, because of content, are not expected to interest foreign
suppliers, would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with government procurement practices. The aggregate of
such packages would amount to US$6.3 million and would represent about 20% of
equipment and 85% of furniture costs. Miscellaneous items in packages not
exceeding US$35,000 in value and aggregating US$1.0 million, i.e. about 8.5Z
of furniture and equipment costs, would be purchased on the basis of at least
three price quotations or through existing government contracts for bulk
procurement. Instructional materials and books, estimated at a total of
US$0.5 million equivalent, would be procured in accordance with normal



- 30 -
government procedures. These procedures include the selection of a number of
suppliers, based on the comparison of their production with the list of
materials submitted to them, and competition among the selected suppliers,
based on price, quality and delivery conditions. Government contracts and
procedures used for this project are acceptable to the Bank and have already
been utilized for previous similar projects. All consultants would be
selected in accordance with Bank guidelines for the use of consultants, and
fellowships abroad would be arranged according to agreed criteria for fellow-
ship selection and through negotiated contracts acceptable to the Bank.
4.11      In view of the adequate capabilities of DSD (para. 2.38) and PWD,
responsible for survey, design, tendering and supervision of projects, the
Government would confirm that sketch plans, bidding documents and contract
awards would conform to agreed schedules of accommodation, construction
standards and guidelines, aithout submitting these documents. Contract awards
for furniture and equipment, valued at US$200,000 or more each, would be
subject to prior Bank review. This review would cover an estimated 15% of the
contracts and about 35X of their value, according to recent contract profiles
for similar project components.
Disbursement
4.12      The proposed sector investment loan of US$58.8 million would be
disbursed over a period of four-and-a-half years (July 1988-December 1992).
Disbursements would be made on the basis of: (a) 352 of the cost of civil
works and related professional services; (b) '00% of the c.i.f. cost of
imported equipment and furniture; (c) 1002 of the ex-factory cost of locally
manufactured equipment and furniture; (d) 701 of the cost of imported equip-
ment and furniture procured locally; and (e) 1002 of expenditures on overseas
fellowships. For disbursements relating to miscellaneous items such as
teaching materials, books, specialist services and overseas fellowships, and
for contracts for school construction, furniture and equipments costing below
US$200,000 equivalent, statements of expenditure (SOE) would be used. In this
case, supporting documents and contracts would be retained by DSD and made
available for review by visiting Bank missions. All other disbursements would
be made against full documentation.
4.13      The disbursement forecast (Annex 15) indicates that the proposed
loan would be disbursed at a faster pace than the Bankwide and regional aver-
ages for education projects.  This is feasible because of DSD' . improved
efficiency, PWb's design, bidding and monitoring system which is in place, the
advanced status of project preparstion (para. 3.15), the routine character of
most operations, and the fact that the total project works are well within the
MOE's improved implementation capacity (para. 5.1). This has been demon-
strated by the First Sector Project for which disbursements, at the end of the
first nine months of implementation, are three times as fast as estimated at
appraisal. As project implementation started in January 1988, independently
from the ongoing First Sector Project, it is estimated that US$10.9 million
equivalent in foreign exchange will be spent on project items eligible for
reimbursement under the proposed loan in CY1988 and will be disbursed in
FY1989.



- 31 -
4.14      Retroactive Financing.  On the basis of the above disbursement fore-
cast, expenditures incurred as from January 1, 1988 and eligible for
reimbursement under the proposed loan, would be financed retroactively up to a
total of US$5.5 million equivalent (para. 7.4). This amount represents the
estimated foreign exchange expenditures to be made between January 1, 1988 and
the signing of the Loan Agreement.
4.15      Special Account.  To ensure that funds for the project would be
available as soon as needed, a Special Account operated by the Accountant
General, would be established in a bank in Malaysia following loan signature.
The authorized allocation wculd amount to US$4.0 million equivalent,
representing the Bank's share of four months of estimated average expenditure
during the project disbursement period (para. 4.12). Applications for
replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted when the baiance of
the Speciai Account reaches about 50Z of the initial deposit, or quarterly,
whichever occurs earlier. These applications would be supported by the
Special Account Bank statement and documentary evidence or SOEs, whichever is
applicable, of payments made from the account for goods and services eligible
for Bank financing under the project. A matching revolving fund for
counterpart funds is not required as such funds are committed and readily
available within the Treasury under the approved budget.
Accounts and Audit
4.16      Separate accounts for all project activities would be maintained by
DSD in accordance with sound accounting practices satisfactory to the Bank.
DSD would submit to the Bank within nine months of the end of the Government's
fiscal year, i.e. by September 30 of each year, starting in 1989, statements
reflecting the financial performance and position of the project together with
independent auditors' reports, including separate audit accounts relating to
disbursement against SOEs and the Special Account. Six months after the
Closing Date, i.e. June 30, 1993, the Joint Secretariat of the MOE Project
Implementation Committee (para. 5.7) would send to the Bank for comments a
draft project completion report assessing attainment of project objectives,
project implementation and initial operation, its cost and the benefits
derived, the performance of the Government, the Bank and other agencies
involved, and the significant lessons learned. During nagotiations, agreement
was reached on the above requirements for annual expenditure audit reports and
a project completion report (para. 7.2(d)).
V. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Government's Project Implementation Capacity
5.1       The MOE would implement the proposed project, with selective review
of tIe national-level program and state-level programs by the Bank. The
project would be well within the implementation capacity of the MOE whose
construction program during the implementation period would comprise about
4,400 classrooms and related boarding, staff housing and educational resource
facilities under the proposed project; three TTCs under the First Sector
Project, of which two are already well underway; three polytechnics under the



- 32 -
Second Industrial Training Project (Seventh Education Project, Loan 2601-MA),
which are close to completion; and 20 ADB-financed secondary vocational
schools, of which nine are already at various stages of completion. This is
less than the successfully implemented program during the first two years of
the Fifth Malaysia Plan, when the MOE completed over 3,000 primary and
secondary classrooms, while simultaneously involved in the construction of
another 7,000 classrooms, expected to be completed by the end of 1988, and
nine secondary vocational schools and two polytechnics already close to
completion. The MOE output for the primary and secondary education subsector
during the Fifth Malaysia P.an period is likely to be about 14,500 class-
rooms. It h,g Icapacity to do more but has been limited by budgetary
constraints., .    Moreover, DSD, the MOE project implementation unit, has
increased in size and efficiency (para. 2.38). While the first four education
projects were completed two to three years behind appraisal schedules, the
Fifth Education Project (Loan 1657-MA) was closed on schedule and the First
Sector Project is being implemented well ahead of schedule.
The Sector Approach
5.2       The sector approach is based on three fundamental requirements:
(a) agreement on policy; (b) demonstration of the Government's capability to
manage comprehensive education sector development programs; and (c) agreement
on procedures, criteria and guidelines for project development, preparation
and implementation, to ensure relevance to sectoral needs, efficiency, and
equity in the distribution of project benefits.
5.3       The proposed project stems from the long-term dialogue and
cooperation with the Bank and follows the same lines as the First Sector
Project (para. 2.40). It is based on a general agreement on the Government's
letter of policy and plar of action for the period 1986-95, referred to in
paragraph 3.1.
5.4       The proposed project would continue and improve past educational
achievements (para. 2.4), assisted by successful Bank-financed projects
(para. 2.37), which have demonstrated the Government's ability to prepare,
monitor, implement and evaluate sectoral projects through its own institutions
(para. 2.38). This has been confirmed by the efficient preparation and
implementation of the First Sector Project and by the preparation and
appraisal of the proposed project (Annex 16). These have been carried out
expeditiously by the MOE Appraisal Committee, under the joint chairmanship of
a Deputy Director General and a Deputy Secretary General, with the assistance
of three specialized Subcommittees in charge of schools, resource centers and
staff development (para. 3.15).
5.5       The Government, in close cooperation with the Bank, has established
general eligibility criteria for approval of programs and subprojects
(Annex 17), and specific criteria for identification and appraisal of programs
16/ About 15,000 classrooms were completed under the Fourth Malaysia Plan
(1981-85).



- 33 -
and subprojects (Annex 18). These criteria, which have been applied by the
Covernment to the development and appraisal of the proposed project, have been
established on the basis of the following common considerations: relevance to
the priorities of the Fifth Malaysia Plan; the possibilities of timely land
acquisition; local implementation capability; technical feasibility within
approved norms and standards; efficiency in facility utilization rates and
unit costs; and availability of staff resources and recurrent budgetary allo-
cations. Guidelines and criteria for allocation of loan funds (Annex 19) have
also been established to ensure that these funds would be distributed between
programs and subprojects in a relevant, balanced and efficient manrner. During
negotiations, agreement on the above criteria, guidelines and procedures was
confirmed with the Government (para. 7.2(e)).
5.6       The sector approach has proved to be an efficient way to cope with
the diversity and wide coverage of programs and subprojects, which could not
all be appraised and supervised by Bank missions. In addition, this approach
has already permitted faster and more flexible financing based on overall pro-
gram expenditures and not on individual project items. It has also further
strengthened the program management capacity of government agencies. More-
over, the proposed project would be the second project in a sequence of sec-
toral operations in the next eight years, guided by the same agreed policy and
plan of action (Annex 5), with possible adjustments over the years.
Organization, Monitoring and Evaluation
5.7       The proposed project would be implemented by the Project Implementa-
tion Committee (PIC), jointly chaired by the Deputy Director General I and the
Deputy Secretary General I of the MOE (Chart 3). The PIC would be assisted in
its tasks by its Joint Secretariat (JS) including MOE staff from the Develop-
ment and Supply Division (Chart 8) and the Educational Planning and Research
Division (Chart 9). The JS cooperates with the Economic Planning Unit of the
Prime Minister's Department, which allocates investment budgets; the Ministry
of Finance (Treasury), which allocates recurrent budgets; the Public Works
Department (PWD), which is responsible for execution of works; and other
government agencies involved (Chart 10). The MOE Appraisal Subcommittees
(para. 5.4) would assist the JS in managing, monitoring and evaluating the
respective programs they had appraised. The JS liaises with the efficient
trouble-shooting State and District Action Committees, which include
representatives from all government agencies involved, and are in charge of
monitoring development programs at their respective levels, under the
chairmanship of the state Chief Ministers and the District Officers; and with
the Implementation Coordination Unit within the Prime Minister's Department,
in charge of monitoring physical and financial progress of national projects
at the central level. DSD is generally in charge of physical and financial
program implementation, including general supervision and procurement of
equipment, furniture and materials, while detailed supervision of civil works
is carried out by PWDs at the district and state levels in cooperation with
DEOs. The staff of the agencies in charge of project implementation are
sufficient and competent.
5.8       Progress in policy changes, institutional development and quality
improvement would continue to be assessed by EPRD in conjunction with appro-



- 34 -
priate universities, MOE divisions and specialized subcommittees. EPRD
established performance indicators for the First Sector Project, to monitor
and evaluate progress in: (a) the physical implementation and distribution of
education facilities by district; (b) improvement in education quality and
efficiency through the reform of curricula, teacher and managerial staff
training and upgrading, reduction of class size, expansion of multigrade
teaching, and utilization of educational resources; and (c) the level of
related capital and recurrent expenditures. These performance indicators were
prepared on the basis of key targets selected from the Government's letter of
policy and plan of action (para. 3.1) and were agreed with the Bank. These
indicators would also apply to the proposed project, after minor
modifications, and would be the basis for the joint Government-World Bank
annual implementation review of both combined projects (para. 5.10). During
negotiations, agreement was reached on these modified performance indicators
(para. 7.2(f)).
Implementation Procedures
5.9       Procedures for implementation of the civil works component, and for
equipment procurement and technical assistance, acceptable to the Bank for the
First Sector Project, would be applied to the proposed project. The project
would be implemented over four years starting in January 1, 1988. The
implementation schedule is given in Annex 20. The Completion Date would be
December 31, 1991, and the Closing Date December 31, 1992. The critical
implementation dates are given in Annex 21.
Reporting
5.10      Following district and state periodic reviews, the JS would report
progress on an annual basis to the PIC (para. 5.7). These reports would
assess quantitative physical progress as well as quality and cost efficiency
improvement, as compared with agreed key performance indicators (Annex 22).
They would be sent to the Bank for comments by February 15 of each year, and
would form the basis of annual project implementation review meetings to be
held between the Government and the Bank by March 31 of each year, during
which targets for the subsequent year would be established. Interim progress
reports focussing on physical and financial implementation would be prepared
for Bank review by September 15 of each year and would be discussed with Bank
missions reviewing progress with project implementation by October 31 of each
year. An in-depth mid-term review of progress towards the targets of the
proposed project would also take place with the Bank by March 31, 1990.
Durina negotiations, agreement was reached on the above annual and mid-term
review meetin&s and reports to be implemented according to the above schedules
(para. 7.2(g)).
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
6.1       Benefits.  The proposed project, following upon the First Sector
Project, would bring the development of the sector closer to the 1995 targets
in relation to improved instructional quality, managerial efficiency, and
equity in the distribution of educational opportunities, while asserting the



- 35 -
importance of the nine-year basic education program. The project would
replace unsafe old facilities and would provide over 176,000 student places in
primary and secondary education, benefiting about 192,000 students, of whom
about 165,000 would be new. This would help centralize primary education into
more economical units, and relieve the pressure on secondary schools in which
overcrowding results in excessive class size and double shifting detrimental
to the teaching/learning process. Project school enrollments would represent
51 of the primary and secondary students planned to be enrolled in 1990 (3.9
million). This would also help expand educational opportunities in areas of
greatest need, and establish more cost-efficient practices for school
construction. The provision of additional staff housing, mostly in rural
areas, would promote teachers' commitment and efficiency where they are
particularly critical. The provision of educational RCs serving the majority
of the 6,700 primary schools would strengthen educational support to the
poorest segments of the ed-cational system and would enhance the quality of
education and the motivation of students and teachers where they are most
needed. Through the staff development program, about 7,400 key educators,
trainers, advisors and managers would be trained. Therefore, through both the
first and proposed second sector projects, about 8,000 education officers
would be responsible by 1990 for major educational and managerial functions,
particularly in the field, as required.
6.2       The project would also bolster the First Sector Project in yielding
significant educational outcomes: the emphasis placed in the KBSR on basic
skills would enable students to master reading, writing and basic calculation
better than in the past. The practical orientation of curricula and avail-
ability of educational resources would enhance students' creativity, initia-
tive, critical thinking, problem-solving skills and constructive interaction
in the classroom. Enrichment materials and media would be used to give
students a taste and the skills for self-instruction, thus preparing them for
life-long education. Extracurricular activities would contribute to making
students more conscious of their role and responsibility in the physical,
social and technological environment. Manual skills in the curricula would
prepare students for the modern living environment, while developing their
psychomotor skills as part of a well-rounded personality. These expected
improvements would be reflected in the positive results of the continuous
students' achievement evaluation system which will replace the present Grade 5
assessment test. The practical orientation of inservice upgrading programs,
to be provided in resource centers, would enhance teachers' class management
skills, resourcefulness and creative interaction with students. This,
combined with improved managerial and leadership skills among headmasters and
education officers through the staff development program, would result in more
effective use of school facilities and resources, and greater staff
motivation.
6.3       Risks.  The educationally justified but demanding reform of primary
and secondary education coincides with a time of resource constraints which
are likely to slow down its implementation (para. 2.26). The investment
allocation to the subsector under the Fifth Malaysia Plan will not enable the
NOE to reduce the shortage of educational facilities and double shifting
throughout the country, as originally planned. This r.ould have required about
20,000 new classrooms to be built by 1990, as compared with the 14,500 class-



- 36 -
rooms possible under the revised investment program.  However, this program,
which has been tailored to available budgetary resources (para. 2.30), will
alleviate the most critical needs. In addition, the qualitative inputs will
compensate for the limits to the ambitious original 10-year development
program which may have to be extended beyond the 1995 planning horizon, in the
event of continuin, financial constraints.
6.4       Further capital budget cuts may affect the education sector at
large. However, in view of the top priority given to the primary and
secondary education subsectors, these possible cuts are not anticipated to
affect inver.tment for the proposed project. On the other hand, further cuts
in recurrent expenditure (para. 2.33) could jeopardize improvement in the
quality of education as they would further limit incentives for teachers to
upgrade their skills, maintenance allocations to keep facilities in an
acceptable state of repair, employment of qualified and experienced teachers,
and availability of teaching/learning materials. It might be necessary to
maintain some traditional methods and thus slow down the implementation of the
ambitious reform of curricula and teaching methods. However, cost-efficiency
measures such as multigrade teaching, a reduction in the number of under-
enrolled schools and reduced space standards, implemented systematically,
would somewhat reduce the growth rate of recurrent expenditures. Moreover,
the improvement in teacher training, educational management and resources
would compensate for the smaller number of primary teachers which the country
could afford.
6.5       There is also the risk that the new integrated educational programs
and active teaching methods may be rejected by a number of teachers resenting
the additional burden resulting from increased class preparation, correction,
extracurricular and remedial duties. However, a recent evaluation of the KBSR
by the MOE in cooperation with the Science University of Malaysia provides
strong indications that headmasters, teachers, students and parents generally
react positively to the KBSR (para. 6.2).
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1       During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a)  multigrade teaching techniques would be included as an integral part
of the teacher training college curriculum for primary teachers and
would be applied to the extent possible in schools where classes
enroll fewer than 20 students each (para. 3.10);
(b)  any savings from construction programs during implementation would
be effectively used to further expand school construction in the
most underprivileged districts (para. 3.11);
(c)  in schools where a single shift would be reinstated, curricular and
extracurricular activities would be spread over the entire working
day to the extent possible (para. 3.13); and



- 37 -
(d) subject to tne country's financial situation, in its 1989 budget,
per capita grants to schools would be increased to make up for past
erosion in their real value, and, subsequently, in amounts
sufficient to offset inflation, consistent with government price
increase indicators (para. 4.8).
7.2       During negotiations, the Government and the Bank agreed on the
following:
(a) overseas and local training programs, and their terms of reference
and timetables for the related fellowships (para. 3.9);
(b) space standards for project school classrooms (para. 3.10);
(c) use of project funds to purchase suitable sites in advance and
staggered school construction programs on these sites, to be
continued under subsequent development programs (para. 3.12);
(d) annual expenditure audit reports and a project completion report to
be submitted to the Bank according to agreed procedures and
schedules (para. 4.16);
(e) criteria, guidelines and procedures for project preparation and
implementation (para. 5.5);
(f) performance indicators for the proposed project (para. 5.8): and
(g) annual project implementation review meetings to be held between the
Government and the Bank by March 31 of each year, on the basis of
annual progress reports to be sent to the Bank for comments by
February 15 of each year; interim progress reports focussing on
physical and financial implementation, to be prepared for Bank
review by September 15 of each year %nd discussed with Bank missions
reviewing progress with project implementation by October 31 of each
year; and an in-depth mid-term review of progress towards the
targets to take place with the Bank by March 31, 1990 (para. 5.10).
7.3       Expenditures incurred as from January 1, 1988 and eligible for reim-
bursement under the proposed loan, would be financed retroactively up to a
total of US$5.5 million equivalent (para. 4.14).
7.4       Subject to the provisions in paras. 7.1 through 7.3 above, the
proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$58.8
million equivalent to the Government of Malaysia, with a term of 15 years,
including a grace period of five years, at the standard variable rate.



-38 -
ANNEX I
COHARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS                                                                      Paste I
MARCH 23, 1988
~~~-~~~~-       3       3        ~~~~~~~3ETR                      *                                       -.
3   3    3      S        :           3E~~~~~~~~~~$xpuDImWT  zEU14CATION    3  :     :CONPLETtOm'        :IRCURURNT               1         1 
*   s    :       s       a           :5  1~~~~~~~~~~00  031108 :RECURRIIi    zANILT   i  slATE qM   I    sUWIT COST :PSOBA1SSI@U: 
a        ,    a       :900~~~~~oI OutA    'As P6C(6W     :XPMINtIY S  LYEA  YP011PAUINPoAAY   &PORANMY : PAIPAAY   SWAE FMO  sSECOARYMSCONDARV.  GM  t
:8A86: POP. ICAPITA :PSCIWT  W.PToYAL CSWTR  ALALOCATED To: RATE    3EIRUUL..I1(110L    .:STIDETWS: ODUCALYIOS ,P2SWA8Y TO 4S11OLL.  41t3JENTS IENROLL. i
3  ~~~~~IASYUN:IL.6a(US8)  01SOEYID TFO 360WRET    iPR?  SIC  MI £  (X)  3MAY20  :CVCLE                 aPER    :45 P!RCENTSSECUMAEY  :RATIO   Sp"R           33ATIO0
3    1(1979)3(1979) : RUCATIOW  *IxFIISIURI           (S)     £(1976) s (X)   : (X)    :TIACI4ER :GIPICAPITAS    (2)    1(S)    ,TEACNIA  3  (5) 
I           2~~~~ 3      3                   3                                                                   555                               33
*         3    *~~~~~~(1)   (2):    (3)    a      (4)     :    (5)       :(6)       C)        C)        (     :    (0) 3        1) 3( 2               ( )(1 3
B o x,AI          au    14.68.878         6.30        14.6        -      -  -              103'      100        21       -             99         73        13      20.90
CANADA            Si    23.76  9,65Gb    7.70         MM58       30'? 3407 23'?  996       1 10     100l        21       19.90?       100         92*       16      22.600
G~  AP.M.         TO    61.2  12,200      4.6          9.9a      -     -     -     9Gb      age      ioos'           -                10a*        940       -       12.10w
NETIWRLAN6         T9    14.010,490       7.9          5.1       20  3525          9967     96        95         a1      15.3          99         82        13      12.40
NMM lEILAIIP      60      3.2b6 ,01b,   5.9m          13.4       37   31  Z8       996     100       100        24       11.6         100         62        15      23.609*0
$111D12N           79     6.3  12250      9.0         16.2       31   10   10      996      99*     100         18'      19.9         100         79.       1081    36 .5007
SADIM AFRICA
lffl               63     1.0b    9296    6.0         22.0        41  34  22       40       100       77        32        10.0         40          20       21       1.60
KQMI          In6    4.2      235     2.*'w      19.0        43  2627?        a3        29*      35        37        20.2         12           3'      17       1.00
CQOb$             61.    0.4b    345      3.8"        23.0       49  29  22        49       76       40         39                     45         36       26        0.60
.Jlnqrn            61    0O4      480      3.0        11.9       73  26  ...    10          42       66         40       67.0          40         10        19       0.60
ITHIOPIA          65     4.        1        .9         9.5       5528s17           39       37       30a        63       19.3          930        14       44        0.50
KUSA              612   '175     4a9       5.'A       20.16      65  16  11         U      113        56        36       14.4          35         16        26
3.0mg             62      1.4b    435b    5.5         16.9       38   32   26              1162      41         48        9.6          46         21       21        1.30
MDA6ASCAA          77    61.5     330     4.0'        24.0       53  2819          S0       94$"      33       Ssb        8.0          38         14        23       5.1Ob7
NLAMI             el     6.lb    230b    3.5         11.4        3814  23         25b      62        23        65        5.6          12          4        21       0.0o
PdUuMu             63     1.Ob 1,1796    4.3          14.0       46 38       7     sob      93       72         23       13.0         100         so       22        1.00
RUANA             63      S*gb    27G     3.6         27.        71 16  13         37t;     63       30         40       16.0           9          5       16        0.40
SEYCHELL.ES        79     0.6   1,770     5.9         22.40      34' 33'10'                                     23              -           - ~    -           -
sawtA         61     4.5     260      1.5        10.5        o 0    b 4 6b    Sob50    22b       896       296       9.Gb         a3b        12b       22       1.00
SUVA              80D   19.26    36Gb    3.0          -          6639...           32       Si1'.    66         34        1.4         4416                 16       ..
SWAZILAND          83     0.76    9496    3.86w       20.4       51  3415          65s9o5                       33       11.           98         29       18        3.00
TANZANA            s0    18.5     260     5.9         17.7       47  1016          7Gb      98        S?        43       1∂.10        196          3       we'       0.30
uUSAN              60    12.6' 30          -          16.1"      236 37b206    46           54X       61        34#      -             17          5       23        0.60
&AMs               *1    29j      T1b       .7        26.        -  -10la                   76       as         30       21.0          40         1a       as        2.00
unia          so0    596     5D       4.SP       11.        46  2327                             so 9  6   46       12.9          1916                 22       1.50
stoomm        GI     7.6      .       5.1        19.5       62 36       6     46       90        55        39       20.0          as         1s        23       0.50
msISm AUItCA
Em              79T    3.46    38Gb    6.5'        35.0        43 21    5    jib          42       30        46       14.0          30         II        43       1.007
UUREIAL            63     6.5     2196    2.1'        2'.?       432928B           9        16        25        ST       24.3          16          3       24        0.03
CANER=            64    10.0      el0     3.1          -         33  38  26       20        69       45b        50       -            -           23       26        2.70
C.A.3.            66       .6b    2606    3.881       24.78y     49   16   74    -          79       45         69.7     1s           -           18       67        1.40"y
,"IAft            76      4.4     120     2.4b11?     21*7b      -         - -1 5s          257      -          7-                                 3'y     21       0.207
a78           1.5     670      9.04W      27.781       --                                           s6by       -30                     -        43by     4.008?
.UIIN!A     as     0.3b    27Gb    2.8          3.8        47  24  ...   20b          13       10        so         5.2         40          25       ∂7ay     -
*      7      0.6  3,4z0       3.7by       8.47                       -      -                      46b7     -             -          -         19bY     2.0818
tA            77     0.6      220     3.34"       6.56       462Zia   64   Io6          4Q61     90a       276y    4".7'          40          12bxy    17       -
A76    11.3           400      4.0?       15.5b6                                 71bqy    -         Zb       -             -          366*7    21        -
A            79      5.3     290P    4.60P       -          25'2no 286   20            34       36         38       20.081)      6s          16       29       7.00a
A BI6SA      66      0.96    1706   ;-            9.6       46  12-    15(M            58       10         26        2.0         -           -        16 
CUS         63     9.Jb    720       .3        42.6        51 40    9    350Y         72       79        37       29.0          49         272*      30       1.68
-IA           s0     1.9    5S0       4.6        19.6       43  23  24    30           52        32        35       20.0          76         27       30        2.90
81     7.06;   190     4.2'        21.7'      3821  11    10             20       60         44       15.7,        66           1       11       0.908
-~ITANIA          78      1.6b    320b    5.5         16.9       33  43  23       17b       32       60        44         2.0         30           9       23       0.37'
NIGER              64     5.2     300      2.8        21.0       40  2320    14             23        20        36       41.0         37           6       26       0.50
NIGERIA            63    93.6b    760t    7.4Y        16.0        --13            3         93        10        36       19.5         47          23       30       2.00
8385643.           64     6.4     380     5Ob         2.0         46$3b i96   3268          52       59         46       26.0         19'         168      24       2.20'
SIEIRALEOWE  77    ~~3.4    250     4.Gb       16.9                        j  - ib    SP       -         35       23.06         64         15'       22       0.60by
TOGO              T8      2.4     400     6.Sqm       26.59      300  260  210   18         74       40         54bY     38.0         52          32bx7   4Db        I.60by
LATIN ANERICA ANM TU  CAMIRIAN
AGNIA         7      27.3   2,210     2.7         10.9       430  310  180   936        69       52         17      -             8?          31        a      21.o0
BANANAS       1~~~9 0.2   2,770       S.7        19.1        36  3611I    93b           99       97        24       -             97         15       19       -
RARSAMO            TS     0.2   2.68      8.5'W       22.10      430  31' 16'  996         1001      990        277      19*9*        990         TV       207     -
UCLIVIA           OD      5.4     550     4.1y        30441      -     -     -    63        747      -          201      -            -           15Y      -       12.607
BRAIL              ID   116.5   1,770     3.8          6.2       51    - 14    76           ?3'y      -         238Y      4.SP'       61-         1581     14'?    12.626
CNILE             76    10.9   1,69       3.2bY       13.Gb1      - -      -      -        11Gbxy    -          34b7     -            -           55bxy    2067    11.90by
COLOMIA           80    26.76 1,16Gb    3.3           23.0       3320320    &1b             ?s       36         32       6.6          -           47       20      10.028Y
COSTA RICA        so      2.2b 1,810b    6.4          31.1       4027 33    90              93       77         33        5.3         7           40       27      14.00
CtWA              78      9.8     -       6.0         11.0       -         - -9   96       11213:7   98         1a6      -            DO          71b*7    15      19.02by
DMINNCAN REP.    80       5.31,030        2.9         13.0       3921  27         666       OD       31         59        3.2         94          30       33      16.00
swains            O *      A61,110        6.0'1       36.7       45  3116    $1            103       -          36       12.6         66          47       16      29.00
EL. 6LVADOA        I?     4.4     640     3.4by       23.161     U4   6a          62        626xy    32         39       -            41          264'7   27by       y.9oby
UATINAL            78     6.6   1.010     1.7y        12.6b'     -    -            -        oG'    -            3561     -            69          ISbal   l96y      5.507
OUTANA             76     0.8     630     6.161       13.661     -    -                      9*      -          32by    -              -          596*7    -        3.006Y
HAITI              60     5.06    230     3.4'         7981      65    9    6    236        so        20        41       19.0         62'          40      27       0.60
NUIDS*A8           Ts     3.6     520     3.56y       14.3117    620  15' 190   60          6961Y    300        4i1b     12.6'        66'         21"Y    19        6.007
JUDAICA            so     2.1   1,110     6.5         13.7       3743  20    90             96       98         40        2.3         95T6                 22       6.00
1311(              60    65.5 1.60         4.7        17.0'         6 9 5         9         9          3        4          .          66          56       17      10.30
NICARAG8A          78     a.6     6Gb     301         14.06-                        b       656*x    234                  9. -         -,60  -ow 21.  26?x  3b     -
PAAMA              ye     1.61530          S5636y     2.8by      428  13' 13    gab         956y      -         2361    11.           65'         506y     27by    20.40by
PMANASA            79     3.0 1,140        1.4'       14.2       421720v    84              83        32        28        3.*jr       76          27       12       0.70
PaRu               U     16.6   1,000      3.6        14.3       5315s19    s0              63        36        39        9.6         89          39       22      14.401
YAtiNIDaDSTOO.   77       1.    3.910     4.861        a.6       46 3620    9.1             95       91         30       10.51,       49          62       24      -
wilmA?             Ts     2.9 2,500       2.          ,9:          -              9*       iosb'      -         246      -            -           646*     -       17.606y
VUENURELA          78    14.4   3,440     5.11        Is.96         -- -6 2                10)66x     -         26       -             -          lbx      17      al.1o,



- 39
ANNEBX I
COMPARATIVE ED)UCATION INDICATORS                                                               Page 2
MARCH 23, 1988
2      2    2      2       2     ~    ~~~~~~~ SGOVRUUUT    s.UAI            a       3          2taoo     2 I        3 2R2                           3       2
2        2    2      2am~~~~~t   PIGS    SAS PECENT  X.E2PDTURS 2L3Tg8ACVtPROMYs2NlUIY   29P11Y 00R3WY   tRATI ARM   S5E(OMMT2sPoIwmRNIOP!  2
2      2Es1 POP. tCAPIT4 2PERCENm UW2TOTM. CEIRMAL:A.LOCATWD 10223ATE    :ENRI.L.t$CKOOL   2STUOZIIS: EDUC&TIO  2PlIIFAY TO 2EONLL.  :STUDEN3TS s112OIL.t
2       3EARIMILLL22UIS  205E011  10 3600ERIFT    cPU   SEC  83 2 C)   28ATIO  2(C0.8    :PER              AS PERCEXT2SECOEART  38*110    3P"        28*ATIO
2            2(1979)3(1979) 2 IRCATtoN :15P580T1J88         (5)     2(1976) 3 (5)   I  (5)    2TEACIRE :0IIPICAPITAS    (V       3   (V)   3T1A02ER  3 (5)3
2       3    5(1)2~~~~~~(2):    (3)    2      (4)      3 (3)         3(6) t 2(7)          (8)    2(9)2    (10)2           (11)s   (12)2    (13)23(14):
ATASIA AND nTI PACIFIC
(22384       *1,1323AZ.U'   31w'   3.1           7.1       so  40  2U    7722        7        62        23        8.0         63          33      17        4.80)
38N08153A         el   12M.22   5S0      2.1         9.3       70  24    6      3222     go       61        37        11.0         74         27       as       3.70
caRlA             82    39.3b1A36P       7.79       20.8        34 34 31         96      99       98         43       16.0         67         72       22       4.010
RqLAYM       e6   116.1b  1,a60      6.7        16.3       36 40 22         7312    G8        96        22       16.0         87          72       22       4.00
PAPUA N..         83     3.0' 80         5.4        19.0       40  1122          -       60       739        315      13.0         35         1350     279      1.00
PNILtPPI8S        79    46:5b    69      2.80       194.0      64  36   -        732      84       65        31        7.1         89         53       36      21.00
SIIIBPO*E         so     2.4 4.42        2.?         6.7       39  40  16        83      92       82         31        8.8         96         53       22       8.00
RCLOUU2 ISL.      82     0.222   44      6.6P2W     19.0        41 342           13I     78       so         2?       10.3         A0         83       Is       2.30
TlfAUAM           *2    49.g     3g      3.4        20.3        5914  10       482    101         68         21        9.3A        44         46       la       4.00D
VAUJATU           86     0.12     -      8.3        23.5       61 2?    4        13      113      80         24       31.0         23         20       16       2.00
50111 ASIA
I~~R5IU   ~~ 79    92.3b      90     1.10       10.1'?     31  17  20       2222     637      -         33        3.6         -           14       23       1.43 
SmJTA             so     1.2      80     3.6        11.0        -     -    -     10      12        -         -        ---                              .  
INDIA *           7 63.6         210     2.9?        9.9W7      -               36       795                41        --                      28'      -        8.30'?
NEPAL.            82    15.012   13wI'   1.4.            -                       19      70        -         36        -                      21       23       3.70'
PAKISTAM          82    87.1b2   3800    2.0         7.0        368)20 4        22       s0       41         s0        3.9         36         I1       15       3.00
"2RP   IRIEST AnS ERTA AFRICA
AIG22AIdSA           11 1.5      -       1.7         3.?       47  19  13       12       3122?    69        3722       -           62          8       21Lb7    1.W0
ALGIRIA           79    18.31,77m        3.6w       12.3       348 26'21'    33          83V      455        Sr       7.0?         53'        297      26       3.707
EGYPT             82    43.3'   630'   4.6W          7.9        31' 33' 268   44         735       Wm~       348      9.5*         083        43'      19'    17.00
GReEcE            76     9.3  4,140      2.6W       10.6b'      37 26 21         -       97127               2922     6.21         -          79225  ~22y    17.802by
mmA               79    36.9     -       3.7'?      14.1'?      -0                       11                   2 -  -                          44104  8"M  24'   4.90'?
IRAO             79      2.   2,710      4.3'Y       6.9'Y      - -                     19         -         B                               43'?    29'       9.30'
IIZLANS           81     3b4,480         6.3'?      11.8'?     -        - -     90       93       94        29        -            98         e1       14      11.00
J0UgA             81     2.29 1,4207    4.97        10.2        194418           7TO     925      85         32      .3.1          -          690      38       8.90
LmaPIP            79  2.3   -    -                  18.6"s?  ----    -                   961   -             19       -   -                   46'   -  ~70 '
uO COc            84    2187    6747    6.97        22.9        36 43  19        33       5?'       9        31       13.1          -         14'      38       D.,Of
Oma               as     1.2b26.492      3.2        12.7"9       -     -         Mb       71"9    63'        23'     -             90        Tim       14'      .
PO0T12MM          86    1022l,,gh    4.6            11.3        30  2613        so       123      70         1        16.9         68         5        16       8. 00
REMAA             18    22.12a,100       3.922?      6.27        -    -      98          1067'               2322    --            98         84221    222    Io.eo2y
SPAIN             76    37.0  4,920      2.1?       16.83'-                               ab                 2122     -                       0b22     -       24.1ghy
SYRA              78     8.61,170        4.49       10.3       39 2326          so       8722     so        332                    6          4122b    22      12.60
TIUSIA            79     6.4 1,110       7.0P       19.0       42  391  6Is             1097      00        3b       12.8          10         309     310       6.010
TIMElY            83     47.41,230       3.3        16.2        5022z24         732      l11      77        31        6.0         53          26       II       8.00
YEEIA.R.          84     9.3    53gh    7.69        17.7       8083 I1          21'      55       8          51      27.8          a           9       83       1.90
viP   .B.I.       U2    2.       48202   7.6         9.7       63' 14'  8'   33          61       34        25       22.08         46         17       83       2.50
MWUY  O  KROPU  C 28T885
EWbE; ouCowrlen2                        84             93      70  6967         81       92       68        95        63           7          91       88      85
Rawg:                                  (1.4-         (3.7-  (23. (8.-  (5-   (8-       (12-     (12-       (17-     (1.4-        (10-        (1-     (8-     (0.03-
10.0)         54.3) 94)  46) 33)   99)    119)    99)              77)      67.0)         100)       84)      48)    29.0)
Ouartil..s2I99er:                       5.6          21.7      51 36 22        81                so 8       43       20           87         4?       26      11.0
Median:                      4.0          16.1     438319I    53             83       61        33        Is           63         222      22       3.7
Lowers                       3.0          11.0     36 21 13         23       60       33        Zs         9           40         14       19       1.0
Quart2l.e Oeviation:                    1.3           5.4    6.5  7.3  4.5  283.0    19.0    22.5          7.0      3.6         23.S       16.5      3.3       5.0
P8.2:                                   4.4          17.0      46  a18          53      76       59         36       16           42         31       23       6.9
Standard bevistion:                     1.9           8.7    12  10    7       29       2?       24        11        13           27         23        7       7.4
fedian:                                 4.0          16.0      4383619          53      83       61         35       13           63         26       22       3.7
AIMoLst                                                            FOOTMOTESt
-    A*11  WIAVAILARL                                      A * DA1W PRIOR TO BAS  TEAS                   S * P1818STR  Of EkA2WATI  (POU) ONLY
84A811183  MIL 0U NES.161E                              g  * A123 PNU  IECENT 12A8  WE VWA             T - PNU  AM2 STATS 608E821  ONLY
I    DATIJ 3257 ISNILE                                       N - (2IREBT PSICEIS                            W * PUBLIC EIPEITME GILY
' IN(W5R PANT-TIRE RYIIRT                                 S - MET UU9LLIT RATIO                          X a INCL2IOES 08'*AME SYTUSENT
F - 881063 EROLROU.IE   RATIO                 1 * 23258( SO2UCES
SOWRCESt        CoLu,ms I aid 2: WorLd Bank Attas or Education sector fieLd sission2s.
CoLiuma 3 to 14: WorLd Sank, Edcation aector .is5io5, Bover,Uest sources
aidlor the Un2esco Statistical. Teerbook.
Comparative Educstion Dots we useful in the evaLuation of warious education Watt" and anltysis of reLative steges of
educational devetoplent betwee WeitAl OCKUWWti. However, an the basis of the prAesent data, trosR-nattonalt coaparieso
shouLd 228 spprosele  with great caution.  Data prmanted in the above tAbLe have been cot.l.cttd Largety by Sank missions
iron government sources; the remainder am staff estimatos or dst.A iro n IMst. Effort$ have boon sodo to standardize
definitions wid, within Limits, to ciao the acturecy of the data. UMvert#iatess, such data ara AsiLL Imperfect In
stverat respect aol the 8.2k is worhing to lmpros, thaw progressiveLy an the occasion of its operationat. work. In tile
use of Ohn" dAta, the fottowing ouatifications shOuLd be kapt in aind:
IT) Education' as defined in the table incLudes atl. education and training, both forwaL and nont-forsa..
(2)   "Pr'aary" education Wrefr  to education at the first Leval., aid "sscondare' education ref en  to at.l education
at thle secondary Laval, regardLess af type (e.g., gneral., technical., agricuttural).
(3)   "Literacy ratte,  (cot. 6) are ofton obtained frmn country cesuses.  In eany' coufitrls they are onLy
epproxisation and it is doubtful. that mny unifore definition of 'Literate' has been fol.loved conistentLy.
(4)  '%22Ii expenditure in education" (col.s. 4 end 5) refers to aLl. (epitat. ai  eurn end Sw -   itures devoted to
education by public and quasi-pubLic agenies.
(3) EonrolLawnt ratios' (Cool.. 7, 12 and 14) refer to sebhool. year ard are the percentage of eligibte chit.dran
enroLLed fuLt-time in the appropriate echool.. puabt.isod Private by level.. They we often eibjwct to a wide
marin of elrror in the deveoping coantrise owing to vgeiatione in the accuacy of besic data (i.e.,
age-specific pspul.etion and  srottlants). Enrotlent figure  frequentLy we higher then the fte r of
students actual.ly in school.. On  -ead students may be incl.uded in thes  figure  end can infate" the ratios.



MALAYSIA
SECOND PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Teacher Supply and Demand Projections, 1986-95
1986/a     1987/a        1988       1989       1990      1991       1992      1993       1994      1995
Primary Education
Total teacher demand                        103,053    106,169    111,900    113,900   116,500   119,300   121,700   124,900   128,200   130,900
Teacher supply
Teacher stock                              81,711     87,383      90,900     98,000   105,900   111,900   117,200   121,000   124,300   127,500
Temporary teachers In training              3,376      1,500       1,200      1,200      1,200      1,200         -         -          -         -
TTC output                                  3,585      3,517       7,400      8,600      6,800     6,800      6,800     6,500      6,500     6,500
Attrition                                   1,289      1,473       1,600      2,000      2,000     2,700      3,000     3,300      3,200     3,100
Total                                     87.383     90,927      9         105,800   111,900   117.200   121.000   124.200   127.600   130,900
Prianry Teacher Requirement              (15.670)   (15.242)   (14.000)    (8.100)   (4.600)   (2,100)        (700)     (700)      (600)      (0)
Secondary Education
Total teacher demand                         65,995     67,911      69,900     72,100    74,100    76,000    78,300    80,400    82,900    85,200
Teacher supply
Teacher stock                              53,314     56,699      59,900     63,300    66,900    70,100    73,500    76,700    80,000    82,600
Inservice teachers                            299          -           -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -
TTC output                                  1,437      1,566       1,700      1,900      1,500     1,500      1,500     1,500        900       900
University output                           1,899      1,922       2,000      2,100      2,200     2,400      2,400     2,500      2,500     2,500
Attrition                                     250        331         300        400        500       500        600       700        800       800
Total                                     56.699     59,856      63.300     66,900    70,100    73,500    76.800    80.000    82,600    85,Z00
Secondary Teacher Requirement             (9.296)    (8.055)    (6.600)    (5,200)   (4.000)   (2,500)   (1.500)        (400)      (300)      JO)
Total TTC output                                5,022      5,083       9,100      10,500     8,300     8,300      8,300     8,000      7,400     7,400
Needed TTC capacity                            15,100     15,200      27,300     31,600    25,000    25,000    25,000    24,000    22,500    22,500
La ctual.
1%',



MALAYSIA
SECOND PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
PRIMARY EDUCATION
Classroom: Class and Student: Class Ratios Ranked by State /1
ERPD DATA AS OP          CONSTRUCTION                                           PROPOSED
30TE JUNE 1986            1988 - 1990               PROJECTED OUTCOME 1988      CONSTRUCTION               PROJECTED OUTCOME 1990
NO.   NO.        RATIO                                                  RATIO                                                RATIO
STUDENT  OF    OF    -------------------------TOTAL STUDENT CLASSRM CLASS ----------------------TOTAL /2 STUDENT CLASSRM CLASS -------------
POPULATN  CLS   CUD1S CRM:CL STSCRM  R    N+E                               CRMNCL ST:CRM  R  N+E                                  CRK:CL ST:CRK
HELAA           68356  2009  2021  1.01      34    96    16   112   69466    2037  2038   1.00    34   6   37         43   70190   2074   2085   0.99    34
KSDAB          172161  5018  4941  0.98      35   214    64   278  175255    5005  5089   0.98    35  66   88        154  182538   5093   5284   0.96    36
T     URENOGANU  97789  3131  2983  0.95     33   417   125   542  107053    3108  3282   0.95    34 105  146        251  113416   3254   3388   0.96    35
P iLIS          21954   618   626  1.01      35    70     0    70   23156      626   672   0.93    37   8   47        55   24296    673    703   0.96    36
N.sUIUAN        94660  2838  2609  0.92      36    97    40   137   98375    2649  3038   0.81    37  50  129        179  100938   2778   3108   0.89    36
PAHANG         141828  4322  3531  0.82      40    28   4 9   516  148879    4019  4661   0.86    37  24  303        327  157067   4322   4907   0.88    36
P.PIINUW       125629  3632  2794  0.77      45    25   358   383  128374    3152  3612   0.87    41   0   61         61  130662   3213   3676   0.87    41
V.PERSEKUTUAN  130002  3157  2477  0.78      52     0   380   380  135529    2857  3301   0.87    47  18  198        216  139718   3055   3496   0.87    46
JONOR          270172  8073  6618  0.82      41   312   584   896  271887    7202  8372   0.86    38  30  219        249  281074   7421   8666   0.86    38
SELAIIOR       247001  6548  5216  0.80      47   265   622   887  259161    5838  6887   0.85    44  50  295        345  271748   6133   7202   0.85    44
QANhTAN        160644  4254  4014  0.94      40   534   183   717  169244    4197  4885   0.86    40  78  187        265  178866   4384   5169   0.85    41
PER l          279618  8430  6835  0.81      41   489   184   673  284300    7019  8559   0.82    41 187  175        362  292539   7194   8756   0.82    41
SAMARAK        214604  7225  5551  0.77      39     0   455   455  216204    6006  7511   0.80    36  61   18         79  233605   6024   7581   0.79    39
SABAN          195735  7254  5421  0.75      36    30   394   424  213501    5815  7625   0.76    37  12   32         44  235533   5847   8122   0.72    40
TOTAL         2220153 66509 55637  0.84      40  2577  3893  6470 2300384   59530 69532   0.86    39 695 1935       2630 2412190  61465  72143   0.85    39
/1  Ranked according to ratios in 1990, the end of the Fifth Malaysia Plan (1986-90).                                                                             04
12  Includes 2088 classrooms under the proposed project and another 542 under the Saudi Development Fhmd.
NMTE:        R - Replacemnt Classrooms                                                                                                                             _
1+B - New and ExtensLon Classrooms
CR3U - Classroom
CL - Class
ST - Student



MALAYSIA
SEOOND PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
SECONDARY EDUCATION
Classroom: Class and Student: Classroom Ratios by State 11
ERPD DATA AS OF          CONSTRUCTION                                        PROPOSED
LOCATION                  30TH JUNE 1986           1986 - 1988             PROJECTED OUTCCME 1988   CONSTRUCTION                PROJECTED OUTCOMS 1990
NO.  NO.         RATIO                                            RATIO                                              RATIO
STUDENT OF   OP    ----------------------TOTAL STUDENT  CRM  CLASS -----------------------TOTAL 12 STUDENT  CRN  CLASS -------------
STATEIDISTRICT   POPULATN CLS  CM.hS CFM:CL ST:CRM  R  N+E                             CRM:CL ST:CRM  R  N+E                                CRM:CL ST:CRM
MELAKA              49025  1408  1208  0.86     41   0   49    49   51C87  1237  1360   0.92      41   0   42        42   51821  1299  1381   0.94    40
ZEDAU              105646  3039  2198  0.72     48  18  317   333  107842  2515  3075   0.82      43   0  139      1V9  109430  2634  3121   0.85    41
PERLIS              14993   445   381  0.86     39  32   10    42   14826   391   457   0.86      38   0    5         5   15832   396   488   0.81    40
PERM               184237  5029  3604  0.72     51   8  217   225  182778  3821  5021   0.76      48   0  300       300  185485  4121  5095   0.81    45
W.   D     A        83511  2136  1319  0.62     63   0 206   206   85951  1525  2203   0.69       56   0  272       272   89908  1797  2503   0.78    50
N. SUMILAN          61532  1816  1393  0.77     44  19   56    75   65818  1449  1907   0.76      45   0   98        98   68673  1547  1990   0.78    44
XIANTAN            100847  2444  1877  0.77     54  41  150   191   96131  2027  2821   0.72      47   0  255       255  100800 2282  2962   0.77    44
T      CGAW         47613  1455  1023  0.70     47  97  108   205   51695  1131  1553   0.73      46   0  146      146   56919  1277  1709   0.75    45
SARANA             115530  3259  2295  0.70     50   0  412   412  127885  2707  341i5  0.78      47   0   15       15  134168  2722  3646   0.73    49
JOBOR              158466  4403  2718  0.62     58   0  333   333  164415  3051  4453   0.69      54   0  329      329  170894  3380  4638   0.73    51
PANAUO              78971  2062  1529  0.74     32  98  109   207   84007  1638  2433   0.67      51   0  216       216   88765  1854  2574   0.72    48
PIL4 PIlLNG         91433 2597  1573  0.61      58   0  178   178   92599  1751  2614   0.67      53   0  196       196   96530  1947  2726   0.71    50
SELANGOR           133076  3604  2217  0.62     60   0  477   477  146418  2694  3942   0.68      54   0  413      413  162388  3107  4372   0.71    52
SAW*                86370  2248  1418  0.63     61   0  550   550  100778  1968  2579   0.76      51   0   20       20  115203  1988  2956   0.67    58
GRAND TOTAL       1311270 35945 24753  0.69     53 313 3172  3485 1372250 27925 37883   0.74      49   0 2446      2446 1446816 30371 39961   0.76    48
11 Ranked by ratios in 1990, the end of the Fifth Malaysia Plan (1986-1990).
12 Includes 2320 classrooms under the proposed project and another 126 under the Saudi Development Fund.
NOTEt            R - Replacement Classrooms
WIE - New and Extension Classrooms
CRM - Classroom
CL - Class
ST - Student



- 43-                                                           ANNEX 4
Table 1
MO AM8 MUn1 IATIW MMU WU
PRD WCU?I0 0JA1 aAa AM~ 81VfD2ILJ%ABWI RA=IBY DIM=138107
L80~~~Ia0 ~303 JUNW F9oam8=8                                               (IlIW    1980                        P331I3  ofln3 1990
W8. 33.        RA=I 12   - TmtOmctcs    -  v                            12                                  2*LS Wc   CS--RM110 1
SWUM        05319! 06 0WL   omi---am    IAwe               SOW                       L 4  :INI  R M                           C82W  8STas
1  UI88UI       *71214513~~~II ~.1   28 20   2 0                4797   1     171.13    29  a    6    6    4996 172.5 1.13                  29
W           C           54510536                                        378          101.03            0121 2    4170 124115.s    3*
gm            2mm   1901.  2028                                       M 8211 11.07       3s  0    0    0    3071   121   14 1.06    25
S~~IAJ*    3W  ~~~~56399150.8336    a*                          *6    3020619 1.04    280    0                 0    61382020 1.03                10
rom   ~       7708 252210836 32*                        76  777252109    so01                         i1  8019 2721 102  29
00693*    IaMS         38311631*10.8727    0  30    36    381 16 1.01    233                                    3    *92   11      71 1.00       25
~~.PAaJ/Jr3A  2~    556    61.0    36  292                  66   SW   561.03    350              3 3  21I 8    8               .00     37
665209           .034 96151s6In42037208100  3*63 4370927280 99  34
H~~~~~~~ ~~394991U65                            i4   016 I    39         ?116   '       :        34        870                          0:9 5
6-1143)8  M1U-~              121   1211.In      28  0so          3    3112A    6099    25 9    0    9                 3*2         17 09          27
3641.02   88              A   as   105384*00                    2 05656    1100 41 429 0.97                     2
sme*g  -041*?   5450   121   111  0.92  ~~~31    0  j 12        3*76   12r260       e8         0    0   c    35       2     2    0.97    231
20302616   *770.77*3512    2 104                       4 0.6        37   0 105 105   228         7699 0.6           3
36339117911791.00   33148e  *319  M22140                             3* 73 461i2*4*46626              1316 0.96       35
~~.IS  NULlS       2195~~~~4 1     26101 357             0    70  233    66 6709)              3 8*7  30    229    63 703  00.96               36
15*    15.∂334B12*7710995  4155990.~96 2825i  0  211173?   10.    28 2412 36 115192095  20
p*uc  uuc       1020227*   266~~~ ~~               ~~ 0.8 a6 1   20    36 170o1 0   0.9    37                     0 8 8 128 26 51 095    38
31Ml?AIK.UAIWKTAN    178 35 0.94   34   53 27    80   1795                           1 0.8        3*12           8   170    614   6*0.95           30
~~a   312*8152  *3874115011200~~.973978 2*64*6221U41160.    39 24  4 28591*1210.95  41
6.88611* LPVJiW.3213  33385   995   914  092   57   2 3680       469    950  1065  0.9      7   0   72  72   35712 100 0. 96    35
ja31  flAl∂1 P~~  43520  13*5  1266  0.94   34    ~ 63   158   476  13919    .         33   716   23   457    351444   0.95    3*,
P.P~W~   31.15*1 UL.    11169   360   2850.79   39   11*13   329   356  0.92    35   0 0      10   116   3  39 64   0.93        34
~~B   31.1K      2006*6606360.~~~                    ~~963250  33 46660.9   32 12  618296*690.92  33
u.wac  301.5*  866   7*8  0.80   *0  ~~12  89   101    035 37 680.9    M66 1                         17      5     930   .92    37
~~~pJ 311?     19976   631   590  0.94 ~~~34  104  32   13    1G        22 4509           35   4  27   31   218 69 703   0.92             36
M.163 3.1   3.123sm 18110 .7                      50 13  28 271   I67    4813  0.9                42   0   33   33   591   14   16    0.92    *1
£4J*.AK  8131   2085*609310.~~~~96 3   0  0   0  1o86509    36 0  0  02598639 0.91   *1
~~fl  SmIDM.133  2*455767   721~~0.94   3 63    0    63   284 72                70.5        3* 814   22252 73680                   0.91     35
311191* TJ6RAR/3~62  27735719719.00                  626693761  6.9                            39 33 42  300   9   70.91  39
111993  LullS    6708  265   205  0.89   29s     0   16    16    741 21    w  0 .6         2    6   22  28    7*9 23 31 091                 27
ElLA?        ~~~17491   45* *1   091   *2    0    2     p 17602   43        7   09       0   0    6    6   197 42 *             0.91     41
88.M~  LU 3)LIK.EIVI  11029   553   33*  094   33               115M72   30 373 0.9         33   0    3    3   11* 33 390   0.90            34
31a~~  LUJEA?/?*    249*3   784   687  0.88   36   12   n21*    67    77         5 0.94    3*  10    0   10 242 79o6                .0      s
51469*   JIJLDIJ  43371691*70.9?~8  30    0  13    15    4396 176 0.91    27  0    0    0                        7*1       170.90           35
u.mfl~1MA 118613  154002  3157  24770.76    2       380   380  1359873282  0.87    47  18  19   216  137835    38 0.90                      46
RAil         111173322910.803   04                            160  3  3560.92 550  813113977.9
s~~aim  88~~~        6871 ~~254   m   0.7s1             18    1i9s           3    26*  0.91    29   0    0    0    749 23    67 09
MM  ff11149mfl*tfl  26*25   810   70: 0.8   37  18   '36   2  2887    4               0.91    36  16    4   20   27*35 81 08
1518    ~Ai4IPA31T  21 2491    748   62   .85   40  36   50    as236    7            5  0.89    38   6   18   24   267s9o77 08
.~   lWflU          19798   652   611  0.93   52   7 005    79 192          1    676  0.90    43   2   54   14   209       2       00  .
siam   PIllS         33~~~~~~i    i 1 00.98         0    0     0    370612 2 0.9               31  0    0    0     *8921            0.9        3
49247k     0.963 45    6    5116496 47                   0.2      3 6    0    6   1726 47*                0.       34
31AI~~~SA3M1M1  ~~~    1851650.90 0  6   6  47511                                        .828 0   0  0   111190.    30
~~                  15420  ~~~~~~~479   *06 0.85 3  0         A4 4  60      5     6    .9          13   19   32   18* 4955 0.8                 38
3.inflAN   13052 535 4960.95                    2  ~~~~~~~31 1647*50570.9    501313160538 0.8   33
PPM      OS~~~~~   12.541~~~395410.86            24           6173*3*7            0108       3  441256127391                       0.8       3*
924 7 4 60  0.87 3       0  166         2191 66 7708                               6 237        6          0.8      33
PAHAI3   ~~~~      5117118104~~I"0.8        6      0 3 3           37172 0.92                     01       10,   3    21 13   0.8            56
pMp         1fl              534    04 92    .0 3                    3        448  101.   113   0.8     5   0   28                      117 0.?         3
1640.9628  ~0  9  9401320.825 0  0  0  *81190.8   27
U.  m6a3I?.0   *5425130811~~~970.  66 2  18706194008    5904494*382540.7 3
ISlE.     *4071  1*61  ~~1259 0.8   37 3       69 18 46312 15 0.                      59 2* 3    *793          L135   158    .8      35
UMISAM    37830  10*4  ~~764  07    56    0  1ie   15     91       221208            23 8   9614   419    01    15   0.8             41
1552  IlL PA3)JET11IA   23936   779 637  0.82 3    ~7        3  455    659  71   0.8    37  14   32    6  2544 61                g0  0.8     36
5146981   1*~~~~S  4508   2*0~    160.681            48 8           352062500.0              52 0    6            0* 22 22 0.84              33
00918*    111313  IYJ   3246   122   ~950.73*        121            700          2    .4     30        0    03107        07V.2   08*         33
31A~~  1221162    49444  1226  ~963 0.79 5        0 8    146             14 1290.8           *   104  A2  86   34       12    38 0.83        49
1.121962  111*12   57291724361079   425849014150..80 m                                        6 41     18   18 55215614              .2      4
£4618  KNA31A3   6*62   357   293  0.    29         8230   308  354  0.9?~~~~~~~~, 060       0 10.8    38    723
122*152   ElSA  49322  1204  1076  0.g   ~                  51962  1166  114  0.8                                       I 21 37 56 39112016
A313  ~~5.31    61324  1*83  ~1076  0.737644    23                            5607          52 08 8           6744   132 16       10.1     5
£1491818   11.331  4095W    117~"'  0.76               is          415 19 5i0s               3  0           0     47       129 16    0.8     3*
P552  SJ18113122~M                                               so701*    .0    9391 8415   0.8  39 35 2        6 530        6   1023   0.80     39
273    072620.7642*2 69 6308 0                                           0   292        811 7883    .0              *
PAHOS  1M80            19510619 *6               4206    624802860.7   390332A05205.0 38
624 0       ~          9    4~         ~210.8             7                               2    0.79     41
SAlE               9651 ~~~          0.80290                      17  ~~*86.80  is70   0  0350.7   51
0                                                37~~05 44084 2    0    0Al154 30 *0    .9      3
36951  5132     ~       0.88   34 00                 .3       32 3 0.8 437  12o                3    67    12   194 0.7          41
-                                                                 61240A1                                              234         0.~~~~~~~   29 
2637  0.8*24     0i       352876130~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I    1  3s,:  I   1* 5 17 2207
4  4              0.       v~~      0     0    3710          190.7         28
250.*60          2* 2   9129                      0.7  04159273507
T    072                                       LE095114996399.01   153168570 478
0.799                  13604                3               0    0s  06                  27    07
*    ~~~~~~I                   194~~~~~~~                                       WS:17       61       A   13:~ 
2555   ~~0Ia:               40        0                                   0    0    0      74         1702
84248 ~~~A       12513326   7 0~~~1.7  49                                                             00                     U   S! 
TAWI  ~~~~34   566 ~~0.72   554                                                                                              727
siam  31171162           13? ~~~~~~0.2*0                                                                
-   -                    Ii~~~~~~~~~~  1~~0.7929      I     1    49                 0                 so1~S   S                     .7
p   m m    ~~~~~~~~78j77                  ~~07900.72
84318  -    ~~~~~~~~~~j1~0                        036                               S:                    O0
243..~~ 2912   *  182                                      0       0
11*w          0.6345 0     0                                                                                 0 65494. 4
liu!2sa 1MS:a                        0                                              3~~n6s53     0   131.7 2
1L31 311.        Moi   6650  5567  0.64  40 2577 3699  6*76 2300383596366258   0.86    39 625 135 2630 2412189 61471 7214    0.5             i9
'M=~ am"te0  .1828018  8523*                                                    pub90 d    1~   it   blaa1     (186-0)



- 44                                                                    ANNEX 4
Tatile
OMMM ZDMFtM=                           MEW   VAIMr
tx*u=                           02 %IIGW  =10" IV                           m=m mmm I'm                                      FRMM= OUlow Mo
RUM  12        'IIW                             Raw  12                                         amo 12
CW- - -   A                           M aAlB                          -Tom ST=& CM CUM
SMICIDIS"=                                  L ii.       04                             CNK:CL ST.CM                                       ZWCL W..Zm
718              a'    103   0   32    32                     24   1:11   21   0    0      0                   28   1.41
IMROMM"               U"            U3  0             0   12                  us   L"    a        43   0   54    56    32      1      lfil   III
a                     0                                    0:,?
39C,          79  0:                                    97   in        7   42   a   23    25    4216           116   1:05    35
4on      6   U4  0.            0                        in    123   1       31   0    0     3    4m            130   1 02    36
1313    3.,   so  0.                      12    14SS    42    39   1.07   31   0    0             L523          41   1:01    36
I9n9   337   337  1.    s"g  no  't    n    20M          337   398   0.85   62   0   W      80   22187          421   0."      53
665    20    19  0       35   0   SI      3     736    22    21   1.03   30   0            0      772          22   0.98    35
432   353  0:      "   it        106   13       441                                 12   1M             464   0.28    31
40             is    3M       go           o'
80    78                                                    1  3                    0                   ge   0 9B    37
im      49    36  0:7    49        196   16    1921    32           1.02   33  00           0    2013           54   0:97    39
6539   174k  H!  0.       35   s   10    18    64a7   IM            0.74   51   0          42    650    1      176   0
IM      537         1      35  19   is    34   20M       Su          0.99   36   0                                      :11   33,7
43   0   47    47   M        321                 39   0          18   12719                0.95    38
49=5  A      1227M  00-7996  41   0   49        nZ                   S: A    41   0         42   51921         M       0.94    40
2131    j                                 490   2175  M?            0.93   37   0                 2207    59                  37
zsu           63  0.      37        A      4    2M      Cl          0.                      0                                 40
95        0                 530                  "    34i  0                2604    67    74
2169          57  0.83   39   0   25    25    2         82          1.04   31   0    0      0    2M       82    91   0.91
2274    82    "   0.91   30   8   22   ff    2653    91             01   '46  'O  304   52   1"',    -
243  0.75
Ul 22 "70   3%  37  0.23   V    0   23      3   '"147086  24"O    4    0.94   32   0    0    0
929   fl    25           37   0    3      3    1027    20          0 94   33   0    0      0
1032          33  I       29   0    0      0    U42    35           0:94   29   0    0      0
7930   ig    157          5    o          -v    8436   207          0 79   41   0   36    36
14666         267           I   0   13    2D   145V    257           0:73   51   0   62    62   1
6631   2n    190          36  %4   16    40    7417                 0.91   36   0   10    10
3409   W      84   :74   A         25    25            fn
1S703         3u                                 i379   343   421   0: gall  45   0   24    204   3
U989   300   us                     44    44   12439   232   SU    0.74   34   0   43    43   1
2412    63    48          t    s   22    22    2814    70    72   0.97   40   0    o        0
ims   4"    256            65   0  127   127   IN        385   4"    0.79   48   0   67    67   2
AITM        6m      U16  in            49  C,  21    22              153   215   S:n    41   0   36    36
170   LU6           46   0   67    67           1413  17M       83   43   0   24    24   t
33081                      33   0  110   Ito   33V?      Hi   896   0 OD   47   0   40    40   1
zm            54          44   0    a      8    26"     62    n    5:97   39   o    o
16194               0      4A   0    0      ,   16066   367   436   0.84   44   0    0       00   1
3264              0:      90   0   43    43    38M      84    89   0.94   45   0    0       0
3196               0.     94   0   51    51   la        as    91   0 94   44
nm                              0   "                   296   397   0:75   30   S   604   604   1
a5m                a           0   is    is             it    255                          13
14M                 0.     39  A    10    42                   457   3: O'S  3"s   3   'S         I
2064          4   0.      42   0    0      0             49    57   0.95   42   0    0      8
32024         623  0.      51   0   63    63            64    923   0. 71   45   0   90    90   3
2013          47  0       i3   0   12    12                    70   0                       0
3WS               o:      41   0    a      8           101   in    ol    3's  'o    ,
2M            in           42  41    0    Al             536         0 79   40   0   360   306   2
m    S'As   40  23   16    31             176         0:80   39   0   16    16
46    46            5n          0.73   47   0   56    56   2
Mple         2,51 00:02    00 28  28                    279 40  OM  56 0 48  48 1
24  0.31        0   25    25                    54                     0      0
1162i;                    1                             Is,:    57  001    ,    oo    0     0
36M           ME St   67 O' id'O  Ifil                                 70         0 126  IZ  3
10512         199  0.63                    46 36   0   46  2'33  '325   0:72      0   48    68   1
83SU                0.62   63   0  206   206            LM   2203                 0  272   272
2e"         IT    0.65   57   0   30    300              SI    91  00:8,9        0    s     0
M4            47  1.02   40   0    0                    47    33   0.89
6m   0.74   46   0   45    43             666   i     0.79         3   16    106   2
IL                                  In   0.97   31         0     0    4       in          0 82         0    0      0
64  064   39         37    37    4                   0:80   44   0    0      0
in  11:59   V    1          36                        0.74   53   0   13    13
264  0      .    0   ß                    339         0 at   43   0    0       0   1
el  0: 1%   4i   0    3                   84     11  0:81   39   0    0      a
0.          0           a                  10
246    76              a                  234   327   0.78   47   0    0       0   1
66   0    0                   17    20   0.87   77   0    0       0
12    14   0.97-  47   0    c      0      651    12    16   0        Sh
4631                      GB   0   39    38             106   SU    0.79   44   0    0      a    3378   106   141   031    31
39   0                        48    55   0.83   45   0    0       0    2478    48    66  0.74    32
37   0   301                                          0   30    12             200   2n    5.74    47
5,4   0   25                                      32
0                  11,  003's    57
0            41    42   0.83   so   0                          41
im                             0           6            51    67   3.76   39   0    00      0             51    70   0.72    43i
2501                      32   3          12                          73   42   0    0      0                        0 72    48
43             44                         0:79   43   0    0      0                   t    CH      49
40    40                        0       54   0   j     34                  729            51
00  29    39                        o::!   43   0          51                   &51   S: 'n    4o
F.Paw                               6260                                                                 0.63   35   0          22                  2ii   CH       49
68        0   74    74
Ul                                     0 68                           la  'O: Ro  39
so                                    0                              143   0.70    32
26                               56   0
20                                    0                                    o:'
49                                 11   0 62    37
imm                                                                           -W                                43   0  13    11                          0.69    56
31                               58   0                              477   0.69    36
0.6                                                     49                                  206   0.68    47
is                               58   0         la                  I00B   0.67    54
3                               48   0          16                  I"    ':'     "
29                               so   0           0                        a 66    66
97                                                           15
4                                                   7                                       46                 I"     0.66    33
33   31373                       17'   '                                           36
InL                       0.                      8   2104                         31  00                                   00:      53
0.             134   M      3                    0.     Gs   0                                    0        42
43   0                                    o:      so
54   0                       347          0.1    48
4                        1%            30   0                       220                  so
20                                      53   0                                    0:1
im                                          671         o
20                        394           53   0                                   ol       1526
0:                                                                                    28          0.63    37
o               16                                      49
a                       0                14                        in                                         1            0.62    37
o:               0      0                                                              607        0.62    62
0:              is    is                                                                          0.41    64
o                0      0                                                                                  40
0    6     6                  24A                                                     0       Go
0    4     4                   go           30   a                                    3.1     45
41                     0    0     0                                56   0                                            66
n                      0   20    20                                59   0
a    2     2                                36   0                                            rg
22    3.2                 11                 3                                            72
a  12                                 9
75   0
iim                             s   n      120,                             75   a
tm                                                            i            I 00
0                                    1.    84   0    a      0         im    19      U     0.
T=          =1270 3"43 24733  0.0             33 313 3M    3M    isrim    27833 37M    -0.74   49   0 24"   2446 I"GM   30279 29M      0. 76    46
2M,jb-   fw tto



- 45 -                                            ANEX 5
Page I of 4
LA,LAW4l
SECOND PRIMARY AND SECONDMAY EDUCATION SBECTOR PROJECT
Plan of Actlon on Folslo and Intitutionl DevouQent
Status and/or                              Action to be
Objectives                      action takEn by December 1987          completed during the period 1986-95
1. Qualitv Inrovefent
1.01  Improve curricula and      A new primAry school curriculum (KJSR) was    The 0BSR ts being implemented in the six
teaching methods aimed at   introduced In Standard One In 1983 and ts    standards of primary education in 1988.
the overall growth of       taught tn Standards One to Five. The Win-    The University of Science, Malaysia (USH)
hb_ personality             tatry of Education (KOE) has tried out the    i8 expected to complete Its evaluation of
SBSR in trial schools, utilizing revised or   the SbSR in 1990.
new educational radio and TV programs.
textbooks, workbooks and readers. A new
manual skills program ie being tried out in
74 schools. The MOE monitors and conducts
continuous evaluation through central- and
state-level education unite.
An integrated secondary school curriculum   In '986, a computer literacy program for
(15BW) ti being developed as a continua-    secondary schools vas tried out in 20
tion to the RBSR.                           schools and a manual skilla program was
also tried out in 71 Lower Secondary
Schools with industrial arts workshop fa-
cilities. The WOE Is reviewing the compu-
ter education program with a view to in-
troducing computer education into secon-
dary schools. The original manual skills
program has evolved into a broader "Living
Skills" program including technology, eco-
nomics and social skills. This program is
to be tried out in 1989 and is expected to
be implemented in 1991. The RBS3 wdll be
introduced in stages, beginnin9 with the
four languages in Form I in 1988, and in
1992 the language programs will reach Form
V. The other RB9t subjects will be iuple-
mented from Form I in 1989 to Form V in
1993, except for the "Living Skills" com-
ponent (Forms I-III) and the "Electives"
(Forms IV and V) which will be introduced
in 1991 and 1992, respectively.
1.02  Rgview teacher training    The teacher training curriculum now Incor-    The lower secondary teacher training curri-
along the lines of the      porates all the requirements necessary to    culum In Teacher TrAining Colleges (TTCs)
new school curricula        develop the resourcefulness and know-how to   and the upper secondary teacher tratning
teach the IMSR. Subject integration, in-     cu'riculum in teacher training faculties of
structional system technology to develop,    tht Universities are being adjusted to in-
produce and utilize resource materials,      cot orate all the necessary methodologies
student achievement evaluation, multigroup    req dred to teach the KBSM when it is im-
teaching and remedial instruction methods    pls inted in accordance with the above-
have been introduced. Mathematics and lan-   nent uned schedule.
guage proficiency have been emphasized. In
additton, inservice teachers planning to
teach the RBSR are given an sight-day in-
tensive orientation session.
1.03  Increae the teachers       The teacher:class ratio has been increased    The 1.5:1 ratio will be applied in a11 aix
clas ratio to provide      from 1.2l to 1.5:1 in primary achools.      primary standards in 1988.
teachers with more time     The new ratio was introduced into Standard
to prepare and discharge    One, together with the RBSR, in 1983. The
their academic and extra-   new ratio is applied in Standards One to
curriclr asignments,        Five.
as required by the new
curricula
1.04  Increae the proportion     About 76Z of upper secondary teachers and     By 19O, it is expected that 852 of upper
of university graduate      61 of lower secondary teachers are gradu-    secondary teachers and 102 of lower smcon-
teachers in secondary       ates.                                        dary teachers will be graduates and teach-
education to raise the                                                   ers with specialist qualifications. By
acadmic standards of                                                      1995, it is envisaged that the respective
secondary education                                                      percentages would reach 90S and 20S.
1.05  Provide secondary schoole   The secondary school principal, the two      By 1990, all secondary schools are expected
witb teachers wth ape-      senior asasitants and the afternoon          to be provided with at least one guidance
cial functiona to take      supervisor (in double-hift schools) are      counselor and one teacher specialized in
care of students in areas   generally aseisted by a variable number of    sports, media and/or library services. By
outeide academic teaching   teachers with spcia functions (library,       1995, secondary schools are expected to be
sports, medla and guidance/counseling).      staffed with teachers with special fune-
tions as follows:
No. of classes        20  21/35  364
Principal              1    1       1
Senior Assistant       2    2       2
Afternoon Supervisor    I    1      1
Guidance Counselor     1    2       3
Sports/ltedia/Library    1    2     3



-46-                                                  ANNeX 5
Page 2 of 4
Status and/or                             Action to be
Objectives                      action taken by Decerbar 1907           completed during the period 1986-95
1.06 Upgrade teacher ttainers'   All teacher trainers have professional        New teacher trainers are recruited among
qualitficattons tn  pe-     qualifications. Mongraduate trainers with   experienced teacters in schools with addi-
cialited areas              the required academic qualificattons are      ttonal professLonal qualifications. About
being given opportunities to acquire uni-    600 teacher tralnera are being provided
versity degrees.                             with addittonal qualifications tin special-
ized areas through fellowships abroad or
through courses provided by the National
Inetttute of Bducattonal Mnagement
(NIEN), the Teacher Educatton Division and
the universities. By 1990. 200 of these
teacher trainers will have acquired the
required specialized qualifications. By
1995, all teacher trainers will have
acqutred additional qualifications.
1.07  Provide all schools with    Most secondary schools have a library/       By 1990 the majority of primsry schools
educational resources to    resource center (RC). Primary schools are   will be equipped with resource facilitiea
improve students' and       being provided with library books and         Including library books and other resource
teachers' creativity        resource equipment and materials u-1er        materials along the lines of the RBSR.
along the MBS activity-    loan 2685-MA.
oriented lines
Pour State RCs tn Peninsular Malaysia, 15    All 365 Dietrict RCe will be provided vitb
Division RCa and 365 District RCs provide    adequate resource equipment and materials,
schoole with referral support in educa-      while 200 of thea will be provided with
tional technology and staff upgrading,       physical facilities of their own by 1990.
District RCa are established in selected     By 1995 all District RCs will be accommo-
central schoola serving 15 to 20 satellite   dated in specific facilities and State RCa
schools each.                                will be established to provide referral
support in a majority of States.
1.08 Reduce the number of         The enrollments of about 22,200 primary      To the extent possible, class sizes of
overcrowded classes         and 8,500 secondary classes range from 40    over 40 will be progressively reduced,
(above 40 students) for     to over 50.                                  tbrough provision of new facilities,
efficient class manage-                                                   starting with the most crowded.
ment under the new
curricula
1.09  Reduce double shifting      Shortage of classrooms results in about      Every effort will be made to ltimt double
which ts detrimental to     one third of primry classes and 602 of        shift (a) In schools, whenever It criti-
plementation of the new   secondary cleasses being schooled in double   cally reduces instruction ttme and pre-
curricula                   shifts. The average classroom: class          cludes extracurricular activities, and (b)
ratios In primary and secondary education    in rural areas, wherever it generates com-
have risen to 842 and 672, respectively.     auting hardsbips and hazards to student,
living far from schools. The respective
average classroomiclass ratios In prisary
and secondary education are expected to
reach 852 and 76X In 1990 and are planned
to be 952 and 852 in 1995.
1.10  Increase teacher training    The 28 TTCs in operation have a normal      Utilisation of teacher training facilities
capacity to cope with the   capactity of about 17,000 student places     will be further expanded to reach an out-
increase in staff re-       for an annual output of about 5,500. Row-   put of about 9,000 new teachers In 1988
quired to implement the     ever, daily operation time has been exten-   and 10,500 In 1989 (8,500 for ptimary and
new curricula in primry    ded in a number of TTCe. As a result,          2,000 for lower secondary education). An
and secondary education     enrollments have reached about 30,000.       additional capacity of 4,000 student
and to upgrade teachers'                                                  places will be provided by 1989 In order
qualificattons (Objective                                                 to reach a normal training capacity of
1.04)                                                                    about 25,000 student places, for an annual
output of about 8,000, while replacing
inadequate TICs, from 1990 onuwards.
Part-time inservice courses of ona to tVw    The upgrading of about 101 of the quali-
weeka' duratton are provided by TTCs, re-    fied teaching force annually will be con-
source centers and KOB Divisions to up-      tinued.
grade about 102 of the teaching force
annually (about 20,000) and to introduce
them to the new curricula and related
teaching methods.
About 6,000 academically qualified primary   The first and the last groups of 1,200 up-
teachers without professional certifica-     graded primary teachere will graduate In
tion, bired on temporary contracts, are      1988 and 1992, respectively.
being gradually upgraded to qualified sta-
tus on the basis of 1,200 p.s., through a
part-tium ineervice four-year course which
started in 1985.
Five universities are training about 6,000   The teacher training capacity of the uni-
graduate teacher trainees for an annual      versities will be djusted to reacb an
output of about 2,200.                       annual output of about 2,500 graduate
teachers from 1990 onwrds.



- 47 -
ANNSI 5
Page 3 of 4
Status and/ot                             Action to be
Objectives                      action taken by December 1987           completed during the period 1986-95
2. Efficiency of Educattonal
management
2.01  Implement a comprehensive   The Nattonal Institute of Educational Man-   A comprehentwive staff development program
staff development program   agement (NuM) trains key educational and    during the 1986-95 period will address the
to improve the quality of   managerial staff at the four levels of       needs of about 116,000 education officers,
educational development,    educattonal administration (ministerial,     mngerr and and clerks. The program In-
managesent and eva-         state, district and school). So far,         cludes trainers' poaitions at the NIM and
luation.                   NKIR, has trained about 20,500 education      major educational and managerial poittions
officers and mAnagers through short-term     In ministerial divisions, State Education
courses for Improved management and effec-   Departments, District Education Offices,
tive professional leadership In which        State and District Reasource Centers.
about one third of principals and their      schools and colleges. About 8,000 of
assistants (3,000) participated. NUIM has   these key positions should be filled by
also been instrumental In launching Qual-   adequately trained officers by 1990. As
tty Control Circle courses at the various    for NISH, It will continue to train about
levels of educational management and         9,000 professional and administrative
courses for school clerks and other sup-     staff annually. It wili also develop net-
port staff.                                  working with other Institutions. univerti-
ties and relevant agencies to implement a
number of the above-mntioned training
program.
2.02  Consolidate underenrolled    Small dilapidated or dispersed schools are   Underenrolled schools will be further con-
schools to make primary     being gradually phased out. There are        solidated where local conditions permit so
education more cost         2,560 underenrolled schools (382 of pri-      that the number of such schools be kept
efficient                   mary schools).                               constant at about 2,500 or decline.
Teaching conditiona In the remaining
underenrolled achools will be improved.
Every effort will be ade to increase the
average class size from 16 presently to 18
In 1990 and 24 by 1995.
2.03  Improve wultigrade teach-   Preservice and inservice teacher training    Training and retraining of teachers for
Ing techniques In rural     curricula include exposure to mnltigrade     multigrade teaching aituations will be
primary schools             teaching techniquea. Multigrade teaching    expanded and intensified to be practiced
Is already practiced in 44  of underen-      In 50X of underenrolled schools by 1990,
rolled primary schools In Pen'nsular         and In all such schools by 1995.
Nalaysia eLa Sebah. It is uAot practiced
In Saravak. This reduce, the above per-
centage to 302 for the whole of Mlaysta.
2.04  Improve the cost effl-      The use of emergency (kilat) and self-help   Designs of reduced size (e.g., 600 ft2)
ciency of school con-       (gotong royong) construction methods,        will systematically be utilized for
struction designs and       based on the intensive use of processed      classea below 40 students. The utiliza-
standards, and the utili-   wooden structures, wherever timber is        tion factor of each classroom will be no
zation rate of school       readily available, has Intensified in        less than 802 and that of each laboratory
facilities                  rural areas. The NQE has started con-        or workshop will be no lese than 752.
*truction of 600 ft classrooma for
classes below 40 students.
2.05  Develop monitoring and      Nonitoring and evaluation of the quality     EPBD wll further Improve Its statistical
evaluation of the quality   and efficiency of education are performed    data gathering and processing techniques.
of education to  aximtze    on a regular basia within the MOE by the     EMD will continue to coordinate and moni-
the Impact of educational   Federal lbspectorate, the Examinations       tor the research end evaluation studies on
inputs on student           Syndicate, the Curritculum Development Cen-   the quality, muengement and cost effi-
achievements                tar, the Schools Division, the Textbook      ciency of education in Malaysia under Loan
Bureau, the Teacher Education Division and   2685-MA (Primry and Secondary Education
the Educational Planning and Research        Sector Project).
Division (EPUD), the Univeraity of
Science, Malaysia, and the Fsculty of Edu-
cation of the University of Malaya. Ad
hoc reports are pubisahed.
EPRD, In conjunction with appropriate uni-
versities and ministertal divisions, has
established procedures and Indicators to
assess annual progres in the provision of
educational inputs including facilities,
resources, qualified staff, programs and
methods, and improvements in students'
achievements and test scores. EPRD pro-
duces an annual statistical report on the
education sector.



- 48-                                            ANNU 5
Page 4 of 4
Status and/or                             Action to be
ObjeetSves                      *ction taken by December 1987           completed durtig the period 1986-95
3. Access to Improved
Education
3.01  Ntantain universal          Vith 982 of the relevant age group at        It Is planned to enroll a total of over
primary education           school, universal primary education has       2.4 million primary students In 1990, I.e.
been virtually achieved through intensive    an inerease of about 150,000 students over
utiltatton and. In a number of cases,       the present enrollments (or 50,000 p.a.),
overcrowding of facilities.  The average     according to projected population grosth,
classroom:student ratio Is 1:40 and about    In order to maintain universal prtmry
one third of primary claasea have to         education. In addition, priority for
double *hift. Moreover, the classroom:       school construction will be given to die-
student ratio is below nattonal average in   tricts below national average In the pro-
34 districts and the claseroostclass ratio   vision of school factitties so that these
(objective 1.09) is below national average   districts catch up with the national aver-
In 50 districts.                             age by 1990.
3.02  Expand lower secondary      The lower secondary enrollment ratio has      It ts planned to enroll a total of 1.0
education towards univer-   reached over 872 witb about 935,000 stu-      million lower secondary students In 1990,
saisation                   dents In Forms I to III out of a total of    i.e. an increase of about 70,000 students
about 1.3 mllion secondary students.         over present enrollments (or about 24,000
This aehievement, in particular, is still    p.a.), in order to raise the relevant
tazing secondary sebool facilities.  The     enrollment ratio to 922. In 1995, lower
average classrooastudent ratio Is 1:53       secondary enrollmaents will reach about 1.2
and tbere ie an average proportion of 7      million in order to achieve universal
claearooa for 10 classaes, resulting in      lower secondary education, as plarned.
about 602 of secondary classes having to     The above action will result in about 1.5
double shift. Moreover, the classroom:       million and over 1.6 million students
student and clessroom:class ratios (objec-   being enrolled In secondary education at
tive 1.09) are below national averages in    large In 1990 and 1995, respectively.
44 and 51 districts, respectively.           This will raise the overall secondary
enrollment ratio from the prenent 722 to
77X and 832 tn 1990 and 1995, respec-
tively, according to population growtb
projections.
3.03  Provide boarding facili-    Boarding is provided to about 145,400 sec-   The present poliey will be continued in
ties to students living     ondary and 51,000 primary students who       order to ensure that there are adequate
beyond daily reach of       cannot coiute easily from hose to school    opportunities for rural children to attend
schools or who otherwise    and to enable secondary school students      secondary schools. However, every effort
could not equitably         from the nost underprivileged areas who      will be made so that only about 10  of
benefit from secondary      otherwtie could not henefit from secondary   total secondary enrollment is accommodated
schooling,                  education. There are presently 28 fully       In schools with boarding facilities.
residential secondary schools and 250 par-
tial day-school hostels accofodating
about 102 of the secondary school popula-
tion. Provision of boarding to primary
students is mainly concentrated In Sarawak
and ts miniml (22 of primry school
enrollment) for Malaysia as a whole.
3.04  Provide staff bousing to    Staff housing is provided to about 9,800     In the period 1986-95, rural primary
tiprove teacbern' living    primry and 4,400 secondary teashere in       teachers will be provided with additional
conditions in rural area    the moat remote areas. These benefits are   staff housing on the basis of needs deter-
gradually extended to all teachers in        mined by the S:ate Education Departments
areas where comunications and living con-   in cooperation with the District Education
dittona are poor. Presently over 92 of       Offices.
primry teachere and 72 of secondary
teachers are provided with accommodation.
3.05  Conatiue the textbook       This scheme costs about M$41 million per     The scheme will be continued.
loan scheme                 year (US$16 mllton equivaiant) and
includes about 1,000 titlet, It provides
free textbooks, workbooks and readere to
about 2.1 million prlry students and
textbooks to about 1.1 mllion secondary
students (over 802 of the school popula-
tion). A new eligtbility policy ha been
established on the basis of family income
and the number of school-gotig children.



49 -                                   SE 
ANEXE 6
MALAYSIA
SECOND PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Projections of Student Enrollment. 1986-95
(0ooo)
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Prlmary
Grade 1                    398    412    415    422    435    443    452    460    469    477
Grade 2                    379    395    399    407    420    433    441    450    458    467
Grade 3                    375    377    393    398    406    419    432    440    449    457
Grade 4                    373    373    376    391    397    404    418    431    439    448
Grade 5                    359    371    371    373    389    393    401    415    428    436
Grade 6                    349    351    365    367    369    384    389    397    410    423
Total Primary         2.233  2.279  2.319  2.358  2.416  2.476  2.533  2.593  2.653  2.708
Lower Secondary
Remove class                92     92      91     99     93      94     98     96      97     98
Form 1                     292    294    309    312    328    323    336    345    350    363
Form 2                     279    275    294    302    305    320    316    330    338    344
Form 3                     272    277    280    292    300    303    319    315    328    336
Subtotal                935    938    974  1.005  1.026  1.040  1.069  1.086  1.113  1.141
Uvper Secondary
Form 4                     178    178    177    179    187    193    196    207    205    215
Form 5                     158    171    165    169    172    179    185    188    199    197
Subtotal                336    349    342    348    359    372    381    395    404    412
Form 6 lcver                  22     27      30     31      32     33     35      37     38     41
Form 6 upper                  26     26      26     28      30     31     32      34     36     37
Subtotal                 48     53     56      59     62     64      67     71      74     78
Forms 1 to 5               1,271  1,287  1,316  1,353  1,385  1,412  1,450  1,481  1,517  1,553
Forms 4 to 6                 384    402    398    407    421    436    448    466    478    490
Total Secondary       1.319  1.340  1.372  1.412  1.447  1.476  1.517  1.552  1.591  1.631
Total Primary and
Secondary          3.552  3.619  3.691  3.770  3.863  3.952  4.050  4.145  4.244  4.339



- 50 -
ANNEX 7
MALAYSIA
SECOND PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Estimated Recurrent Cost of Education in 1991
1988         1991
(Budget)
(in M$ million at current prices)
Primary Education                        1,435       1,714
Secondary Education                      1,264       1,534
Technical and Vocational Education          85          97
Higher Education                           666         763
Other Programs                              29          32
Teacher Training                           190         213
Welfare of Students                        213         236
Educ Planning, Res & Evaluation             22          26
General Administration                     133         151
Total                                  4,037       4,766
Projected Federal Recurrent Budget                  23,342
Education as % of Federal                            20.4%
(in US$ million equivalent at current prices)
Primary Education                          574         686
Secondary Education                        506         614
Technical and Vocational Education          34          39
Higher Education                           266         305
Other Programs                              12          13
Teacher Training                            76          85
Welfare of Students                         85          94
Educ Planning, Res & Evaluation              9          10
General Administration                      53          60
Total                                  1,615       1,906
Projected Federal Recurrent Budget                   9,337
Education as % of Federal                            20.4%
Ö--.  ..---------------..........-  --  --,--..-,_  __..-.---_._



- 51 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
MALAYSIA
SECOND PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Responsibilities for Program Management and Implementation
Activity                                   Responsibility
Overall Program Processing
Preparation of policy guidelines and       Joint Secretariat (EPRD and DSD) of
comprehensive program targets              the MOE Project Implementation
Committee (PIC)
Approval of policy guidelines and          DC (chaired by the Minister of Edu-
comprehensive program targets              cation
Identification and preparation of:
(a)  National program                    MOE divisions, NIEM and SEDs (for
fellowships only)
(b)  State programs                      SEDs (through DEOs) and State Land
Offices (for sites)
Appraisal of programs                      MOE Appraisal Committee, jointly
chaired by the Deputy Director
General I and Deputy Secretary
General I, through three Appraisal
Subcommittees (schools, resource
centers and staff development)
Approval of programs                       DC and the National PWD (in its
advisory capacity for physical
implementation)
Confirmation of approval of programs       EPU (Prime Minister's Department),
and authorization to proceed with          Treasury and, in their advisory
program                                    capacity, the National PWD (for
physical implementation) and the
National Land Office (for site
acquisition)
Notification to relevant agencies to       Joint Secretariat of the PIC
implement programs



- 52 -                        ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
Activity                                   Responsibility
Program Execution
Civil Works
Preparation of annual budget /a          SEDs and DSD
Approval of budgetary allocation/a       EPU and ICU (Prime Minister's
Department) and Treasury
Identif-cation of land                   SEDs and DSD
Intention to acquire land                DSD
Land acquisition                         Federal and State Commissioners of
Land
Decision to allocate acquisition         DSD
funds
Project brief preparation and dis-       DSD
patch to national PWD (with
copies to SEDs, State PWD and
District/Division PD)
Site survey                              State PWD
Site plan                                State or National PWD
Approval of consultants (for             ICU
survey)
Approval of site plan                    SEDs
Preparation of tender documents          District, State or National PWD /b
Approvat of tender documents, ten-       State or National PWD /c
der processing and contract
awards
Implementation                           Contractors
Supervision                              District or State PWD
Monitoring progress in physical          SEDs and DSD
implementation
Financial implementation /a              DSD



- 53 -                          ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
Activity                                   Responsibility
National physical and financial
monitoring: /a
Overall national coordination          ICU
Budgeting                              Treasury
Economic and social implementa-        EPU
tion
Payment                                Accountant General
Educational monitoring and evalua-       Joint Secretariat of the PIC (in co-
tion /a                                  operation with SEDs, MOE divisions
and MOE Appraisal Subcommittees,
as indicated below)
Equipment and Materials
Preparation of lists and bidding         DSD and MOE Schools Division and
documents, and monitoring and            Curriculum Development Center
evaluation                               (school equipment), MWE
Educational Technology Division,
and MOE Resource Equipment and
Material Subcommittee (resource
equipment)
Tendering process and implementa-        DSD
tion
Staff Development
Preparation, monitoring and              NIEM, MOE Scholarships Division, and
evaluation of fellowship program         Staff Development Subcommittee
Selection of candidates                  MOE divisions and SEDs
/a Applicable to all program operations.
7E7 For contracts below M$50,000, below M$%.O million and above M$5.0 million,
respectively.
Ic For contracts below and above M$5.0 million, respectively.



- 54 -
ANNEX 9
MMAYSIA
SECOND PMARY AND SECONDAIY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Imrestant Costs by Program Coot
M  Million                         US4 Million
----------------------------------- -----------------------------------  Foreign as
Local      ForeLgn      Total       Local      Foreign       Total    X of Total
_______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
National Leel Program
Staff Developmnt
Fellavehips abroad                       0.0         2.0         2.0         0.0         0.8          0.8          95
Local traIning                           5.1         0.0         5.1         2.0         0.0          2.0           0
Subtotal, National Level Program          5.1          2.0         7.1         2.0         0.8          2.8          29
State Levl Progrm
Primar Education                          77.8        43.8       121.6        31.1        17.5         48.6          36
Secondary Education                     104.9         63.3       168.2        42.0        25.3        67.3           38
BoardLng FacilLties                      10.9          6.6        17.5         4.4         2.6          7.0          37
Staff lousinS                             5.9         3.2          9.1         2.4         1.3         3.7           35
Educ-tioL Resource Centers
District                              z2.±         iz.7         3o.8         j.6         J.i         i4.7          3;
School                                  3.7         2.0          5.7         1.5         0.8         2.3           35
Subtotal                               27.8         14.7        42.5        11.1         5.9        17.0           35
Subtotal, State Level Program           227.3        131.6       358.9        91.0        52.6       143.6           37
BaselLn  Coat                        232.4        133.6       366.0        93.0        53.4        146.4          36
Contingencies
Physical                                  11.6         6.7        18.3         4.6         2.7          7.3          37
Price increae                             8.6          6.7        15.3         3.4         2.7          6.1          44
Subtotal                                 20.2        13.4         33.6         8.0         5.4         13.4          40
Total Program Cost                    252.6        147.0       399.6       101.0        58.8        159.8          37
Ö____       -----       -----       -----        -----       -----
----- ---- ----- ---- ----  - ---- ---- ---- ----- ---- ---- -----__--  ------__-  ----  ----- ---- ---- ----- ---- ----



- 55 -
ANNEX 10
MALAYSIA
SECOND PRIMARY AMD SECONDMRY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
InvSstmSat Costs by Objective
MS Mtllion                          US$ Million
----------------------------------- -----------------------------------  Foreign Os
Local      Forelgn      Total        Local      Foreisn       Totol     X of Total
Improving Quality
Educational resources                     27.8         14.7        42.5         11.1         5.9        17.0           35
Scaff housing                              5.9          3.2         9.1         2.4          1.3         3.7           35
Primary schools 11                        15.6          8.8        24.4          6.2         3.5         9.7           36
secondary schools 11                      21.0         12.7        33.7         8.4          5.1        13.5           38
Subtotal                                  70.3         39.4       109.7        28.1         15.8        43.9           36
Increasing Efficiency
Staff developmnt
Fellowships abroad                       0.0          2.0         2.0         0.0          0.8         0.8           95
Local training                           5.1          0.0         5.1         2.0          0.0         2.0            0
Subtotal                                 5.1         2.0          7.1         2.0          0.8         2.8           29
Expanding Accss
Primary educatLon 2/                      62.2         35.0        97.2        24.9         14.0        38.9           36
Secondary education 21                    83.9        50.6        134.5        33.6         20.2        53.8           38
Boarding fscilitles                       10.9          6.6        17.5         4.4          2.6         7.0           37
Subtotal                                 157.0         92.2       249.2        62.9         36.8        99.7           37
Bseline Cost                           232.4        133.6       366.0        93.0         53.4       146.4           36
Contingencies
Physical                                  11.6          6.7        18.3         4.6          2.7         7.3           37
Price Increase                             8.6          6.7        15.3         3.4          2.7         6.1           44
Subtotal                                  20.2        13.4         33.6         8.0          5.4        13.4           40
Total Program Cost                     252.6       147.0        399.6       101.0         58.8       159.8           37
11 20X of investment on schools (see pars. 3.3)
21 80X of investmnt on schools



- 56 -
ANNEX  11
51M=D PRflMY AND SUONDARY EDUCAUO SICTOR YRJJECII
Sooio-EZonmie lndicators by State
------_--------------------------------------------------------------__------__--.--------------
Iacldene                 I Over 5
of       Infant    who never          EnroLment
Per Caplta   Poverty   Mortallty   Attended             Ratios
Ince  (US$)    X           Rate        school    PrVim7ry I Seen4 ry
States                    1985 Ia    1984 lb    1985 Ic    1980 Id                1986
Hi4h Itaoem
Federal Territory           3,135           5          10          14         100          76
selangor                    1,999           9          13          19          99          66
iddle Income
Johor                       1,339          12          15          22          96          71
Malaka                      1,114          16          17          21          93          69
Ro*erl Sembilan             1,549          13          12          20         110          L9
Pahns                       1,408          16          17          22          96          68
Perak                       1,287          20          19          t9          f5          75
Pul&u PiUnag                1,659         1i           14          22          96          77
Sabah                      1,439          33          24          41          91          60
S8rmvik                     1,243          32          15          39          97          66
*          ~~~LOW Income
edah                         950          37          20          27         112          73
Perils                      1,049          34          10          25          95          80
Kelantan                      701          39          26          36          95          74
S reagsanu                  1,001          29          22          31          95          68
Malaysia                      1,514                                  25          98          72
Sources:
Is Table 5.1 - Flfth Halaysia Plan, 1986-90.
lb  Table 3.2 - Flfth Malaysia Plan, 1986-90.
Is Social Statistica Bulletin, 1985 Departnant of Statistics Malaysia.
Id Table 6.5 - General Report on the Population CewAks, 1980.
Notbe Enrolment ratlos above 10OX indicate that enrolmmnts lnclude avwrnged students
andolr reflect the effects of population mlgratlen ire oem state to another.



-57-                                        ANNEX 12
MLYSIA
SECOID PRII Y AiD SZOONDARY EDUCATIZON SECTR PROJECT
Iamvstmet Coats b  mplentation Year ad Proram Cwnt
(US$ 1lIon)
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__-----------------
1988       19M9       1990       1991       Total
National Level Proram
Staff Development
Fellowships Abroad                   0.1         0.4        0.2        0.1        0.8
Local Trainum                        0.2         0.9        0.8        0.1        2.0
Subtotal, National Lovel Program       0.3        1.3         1.0        0.2        2.8
Stat. Lewl Progrms
Primary Education                     11.7       31.6         5.1        0.2       48.6
Secondary Education                   11.3       40.1        15.5        0.4       67.3
oarding Facilities                     1.6        4.2         1.2        0.0        7.0
Staff 1ous                             1.2        2.2         0.3        0.0        3.7
Education Resaurce Centers             2.4        10.1        4.5        0.0       17.0
Subtotal, State Level Program         28.2       88.2        26.6        0.6      143.6
B-elie Cost                         28.5        89.5       27.6        0.8      146.4
Continencies
P1y ical                               1.4        4.5         1.4        0.0        7.3
Price increae                          0.5        3.5         2.0        0.1        6.1
subtotal                               1.9        8.0         3.4        0.1       13.4
Total Progrm Coat                   30.4        97.5       31.0        0.9      159.8
___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___- __ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___



-58 -                              ANNEX 13
MALAYSIA
SECOND PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Estimated Unit Areas and Construction Costs for Project Institutions
Gross area per student     Construction cost per student
place or housing unit        place or housing unit /a
Bank-wide                       Bank-wide
FY81-83 prooects                FY81-83 projects
Upper (U)/                       Upper (U)/
This            lower (L)    This                 lower (L)
project  Median    decile    project/b  Median       decile
I                 __        _ (Xt ),         -           -~~(  (US$)-
Primary
Academic &
communal        2.7     2.4       2.9(U)        560/c     690      570(L)
Secondary
Academic &
communal        5.4     5.9       3.0(L)      1,140/c   2,880      950(L)
Boarding         1O.L/e   8.9/d   13.3(U)/d    2,250/e   2,860/d  2,130(L)/d
Staff housing    58.9    86.0     54.0(L)      11,200    31,240    8,800(L)
/a Unit costs exclude contingency allowances.
/b All costs in 1987 US$.
/c Primary schools costs include resource centers.
/d Excluding dining facilities.
/e Including dining facilities.



- 59-                                          ANNEX  14
MALNYSIA
SECOND PRIMARY MAD SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Estimated Ecoamaic Costs of Education li 1991
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__----------------------------
Primary   Secondary   Boardinz  Housing It  Other 21    Total
------------------------------------------_------_------------------__-------__----------------------------
Direct Project Costs (U8$ million)
Capital
Clvil Works                           49.6        66.7         6.9         3.9        17.6       144.7
Furniture                              2.1         2.7         0.3         0.0         0.9         6.0
Equipment                              1.4         4.1         0.5         0.0         0.0         6.0
Tehnicl Assistance                    0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         3.1         3.1
Subtotal                              53.1        73.5         7.7         3.9        21.6       159.8
Annual Coats (US$ million)
Arnnualised Capital Costs
Civ1l Works                            1-7         2.2         0.2         0.1         0.6         4.8
Furnlture                              0.4         0.5         0.1         0.0         0.2         1.2
Equlpment                              0.3         0.8         0.1         0.0         0.0         1.2
Technleal Assistace                    0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.6         0.6
Subtotal                               2.4         3.5         0.4         0.1         1.4         7.8
Recurrent Coats
Increnental Project Cost
Salaries                            17.1        36.1         0.7         0.0         0.0        53.9
Won-salary coats                     0.5         1.1         1.0         0.1         1.4         4.1
Subtotal                            17.6        37.2         1.7         0.1         1.4        58.0
Other costs 3/                         5.5         9.4         0.0         0.0         0.0        14-.9
Subtotal                              23.1        46.6         1.7         0.1         1.4        72.9
Total Annual Project Costs              25.5        50.1         2.1         0.2         2.8        80.7
Unit Dlrect Costs (US$)
Annualized Capital Costs                  29          32         135         451
Recurrent Costs                          214         337         595         437
Subtotal                                 243         369         730         888
Number of benefietarles on which
calculatLon Ls based                  82,046    110,505        2,840         290
1/ 290 unlits acccmodatina a total of 1,200 teachers
21 Resource Centers and Staff Development Program
31 Includes adminlitratlve overhed and cost of exaisting commn faeilitles



- 60 -
ANNEX 15
MAAYSIA
SECOND PRMRtY AID SECOARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Disbursement Forecat
----_--------------------------------_--------------_---__-------------------__----------------
Disbursements                  Disburseament Profiles
lllRD                                  Cumulative         Malayala   ASP Res   Bank-Wide
Fiscal Yer                Ant per  -----------------------   5th Educ  Education  Education
& Semester               somster    Amount          X       Projectll  Projects/2  Projeats/3
-----(USS mLllion) -----             --------------- (S) --------------
1989
Ist                         2.4         2.A           4           0           0           0
2nd                         8.5         0. 9         19           1           2           1
1990
1st                        19.9        30.8          52           3           4           4
2nd                        15.9        46.7          80          10           8           7
1991
lst                         7.8        54.5          93          20          12          11
2nt                        83.         58.3          98          33          16          16
1992
lst                         0.3        58.6          99          46          26          22
2nd                         0.1        58.7         100          58          34          29
1993
1st                         0.1        58.8         100          70          42          36
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__----__----------------
11 Most recnt 8eneral education project In Malaysi, (Loon 1657-MA), closed on schedule
an Jme 30, 1985, unIer  O's exclusive rospoLibiAty.
12 B"ed on 29 projets ad representiun  the Initial fLve years of an averarage
disburcsment period of 10 years.
19 Based on 117 projects and representLng the initial flve years of an average
dlsbursement perlod of 10 years.



- 61 -
ANNEX 16
MALAYSIA
SECOND PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Appraisal Operations Carried out by the MOE Appraisal Committee
For each program and subproject, the MOE Appraisal Committee has concentrated
on the following:
1.   Objective(s) as compared with policy, strategies and targets;
2.   Brief background analysis: past trends in enrollment, local
conditions, special features;
3.   Brief analysis of item:  land status and size, type of item with
special characteristics (boarding, staff housing, subject
specialization), capacity of item, and specialized features;
4.   Justification for inclusion of item:  appraisal criteria, local
requirements, implementation capability, administration and
monitoring;
5.   Enrollment projections and catchment area;
6.   Boarding capacity, justification, and criteria for admission;
7.   Staffing requirements by specialization, number and qualification;
8.   Schedules of accommodation, areas and costing;
9.   Education worksheets;
10. Equipment and furniture lists with cost estimates and
specifications;
11. Overall cost summary (with foreign exchange and contingency
allowance estimates) by category and project items;
12. Proposed timetable for implementation, broken down by category
(civil works, equipment and furniture procurement, staff
development, studies and technical assistance);
13. Proposals for monitoring and eval.uation; and
14.  Estimate of recurrent expenditure.



- 62 -
ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 3
MALAYSIA
SECOND PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
General Eligibility Criteria for Approval of Programs and Subprojects
1.        All programs and subprojects should comply with the following
conditions in order to be eligible for Bank financing:
(a) relevance to the priorities of the Fifth Malaysia Plan for primary
and secondary education, namely improved quality, managerial
efficiency, and equity in the distribution of schools in the
perspective of a universalized nine-year basic education program;
(b) technical feasibility with regard to management capacity, norms and
standards, availability of sites, availability of staff to run
programs and subprojects and to apply for training, and adequacy of
capital and recurrent financing; and
(c) efficiency in implementation with regard to unit costs, utilization
rates for facilities and equipment, utilization of staff, and
monitoring and evaluation.
A. Relevance to Quality, Efficiency and Equity Objectives
2.        Applications shoul6 be evaluated to determine whether they meet
overall program objectives aimed to alleviate identified deficiencies.
(a) Curriculum. The new curriculum should alleviate past
deficiencies. Following an analysis of the causes of such
deficiencies, the new curriculum and related teaching methods would
be assessed to determine whether they are expected to improve the
acquisition of basic skills; increase students' problem-solving
skills, creativity, resourcefulness, eagerness to learn, moral
values; and involvement in classroom, school and community
activities.
(b) Educational resources. The proposed resource centers should be
adequate to improve teachers' efficiency and students' achievements
wider the new activity oriented curricula, taking the conditions of
their utilization (facilities and staff) into account.
(c) Facilities. The proposed schools with specialized facilities (e.g.
maultipurpose room and library/resource center) should be suitable to
ensure effective delivery of the new curriculum, and the reduction
of class size towards a maximum of 40 and of double shifting should
improve the delivery of the new curriculum and students' learning
process.



- 63 -
ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 3
(d) Staff development program. The overseas fellowship and local
training programs should be suitable to improve managerial,
technical and leadership skills to make education administration
more innovative, dynamic and cost-efficient at federal, state,
district and school levels.
(e) Cost-efficiency oriented measures. Measures supported by the
proposed programs, such as consolidation of s.nall, uneconomical
schools and improvement of multigrade teaching, wherever possible,
and alternative designs for classrooms of reduced size, wherever
classes do not exceed 40 students, should result in more cost
efficient utilization of facilities and staff.
B. Technical Feasibility
3.        Each program and subproject should 'De evaluated on the extent to
which it can actually be implemented.
(a) Management. Federal, state and district government agencies should
be able to manage and evaluate progress in program and subproject
implementation through adequate organizational structures,
communication mechanisms and procedures; and qualified local
agencies should be available to carry out the planned local training
programs.
(b)  Norm and standards.  Conitruction, maintenance, furnishing and
equipping standards should be normally implemented.
(c) Sites. Suitable sites should be available by the time
implementation of programs and subprojects is planned to start.
Such sites may be acquired through advanced land acquisition
arrangements, and staggered school construction programs on these
sites could continue under subsequent development programs.
(d) Staff. Qualified managers, teachers and trainers should be
available to run program and subproject institutions, and/or to
implement the local training programs; adequate numbers of staff
with appropriate qualifications should be available for fellowships
abroad and local training programs; and conditions and regulations
should ensure retention of trained instructors and managers in
functions relevant to their training under the staff development
program.
(e) Finance. The required capital outlays should be included in the
Fifth Malaysia Plan and the Government should be able and committed
to meet the recurrent cost implications of the investment, in order
to maintain the physical and educational operation of the programs
and subprojects at high levels of quality. With particular regard
to per capita grants to schools, the Government should, subject to
the country's financial situation, increase such grants in its 1989
budget to make up for their past erosion in real terms and, subse-
quently, in amounts sufficient to offset inflation, consistent with
government price increase indicators.



- 64 -
ANX  17
Page 3 of 3
C. Efficiency of Implementation
4.        Efficiency is the third criterion to assess whether programs and
subprojects can be implemented and operated at reasonable cost.
(a) Unit costs and areas. The capital and recurrent costs and areas per
student should be reasonable.
(b) Utilization rates. Facility utilization and equipment use should be
sufficiently intensive.
(c) Staff utilization. Staff should be efficiently utilized; and the
staff trained through the staff development program should be
utilized to maximize their improved qualifications.
(d) Monitoring and evaluation. The monitoring and evaluation mechanisms
utilized by the Joint Secretariat of the MOE Project Implementation
Committee (PIC), the specialized Appraisal Subcommittees, PWD and
SEDs should be adequate to efficiently assess progress in the
physical, educational and financial implementation of programs and
subprojects.



- 65 -
ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 5
MALAYSIA
SECOND PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Specific Criteria for the Identification and Appraisal
of Programs and Subprojects
The MOE Appraisal Committee, through its three Appraisal
Subcommittees, has appraised and the MOE Development Committee (DC) has
approved programs and subprojects on the basis of the general eligibility
criteria for approval of program and subprojects (Annex 17). Further specific
criteria have been applied to each program and related subprojects as follows:
A. National Level Program and Subprojects
Staff Development Program
1.        With regard to the staff development program:
(a) The subprojects should improve the practical, technical and
leadership skills of educational managers, advisors, supervisors,
trainers and key teachers at federal, state, district and school
levels, resulting in a more innovative, dynamic and commitment-
generating administration and curriculum delivery.
(b) The fields of study selected for fellowships abroad should not be
available within Malaysia.
(c) Emphasis should be given to learning specific, practical new
techniques in training and administration, such as evaluation,
education planning and finance, management system analysis,
supervision/leadership/advisory services, management techniques, new
educational technologies, distance education media, computer
science, and secondary school curriculum development (with
particular regard to languages, sciences and manual skills).
Overseas Fellowships
2.        For fellowships relating to trainers' training and educational
development and management training, the following points should be
considered:
(a) Priority should be given to existing, underqualified staff.
(b) Candidates should hold a first degree or a post-secondary diploma in
a specialized field.
(c) Candidates should satisfy all admission requirements including
language proficiency.



- 66 -
ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 5
(d) The fields of study should be selected so that:
(i) no more than two officers from the same ministerial, state or
district institution or office are overseas at the same time;
and
(ii) priority should be given to fields where courses are about to
be redesigned and to be implemented in the following two to
three years.
(e) Candidates should agree to return to the same post or to a relevant
post for which the study was undertaken and be contracted to do so
for at least 3 years.
Local Training
3.        For local training programs:
(a)  Candidates should be in post or selected to take up a position
directly relevant to the program.
(b) Whenever possible, two or more candidates should undertake the same
program at the same time.
(c)  Priority should be given to those ineligible for long-term study.
(d) At least one staff should be selected from each state, except for
state-level training programs.
4.        The subprojects should be identified, prepared and appraised in
accordance with the above criteria by NIEM, the MOE Scholarships Division and
the Staff Development Appraisal Subcommittee. The preparation should include
draft terms of reference, comprising qualification of candidates and trainers,
selection procedures, description of training programs, arrangements with
recipient institutions and management of the overseas and local training
programs.
5.        The implementation of the subprojects should be monitored and
evaluated by the Joint Secretariat of the Project Implementation Committee
(PIC) in cooperation with the Staff Development Appraisal Subcommittee
including representatives of NIEM, MOE Scholarships Division, Schools
Division, Educational Technology Division, Curriculum Development Center,
Federal Inspectorate and Teacher Education Division.
B. State Level Programs and Subprojects
1.        In identifying and preparing the school and resource center
construction programs, the State Education Departments should consider the
following criteria when providing extension, replacement or new school
construction, and furniture and equipment:



- 67 -
ANNEX 18
Page 3 of 5
General
2.        The school programs should:
(a) improve the balance in the distribution of educational opportunities
in favor of the districts below national average in terms of
availability of school facilities;
(b) improve the teaching/learning process, in line with the new activity
oriented curricula, by reducing: (i) the level of double shifting
whenever ic critically reduces instruction time, precludes
extracurricular activities and generates unusual commuting hardships
and hazards for students, and (ii) class size towards a maximum of
40, wherever possible;
(c) spread out curricular and extracurricular activities over the entire
working day, to the extent possible, in schools where single
shifting is reinstated;
(d) consolidate small, dispersed school facilities into more economical
units, wherever possible;
(e) improve teachers' commitment and efficiency through provision of
adequate staff housing; and
(f)  provide educational opportunities and improve learning conditions
for students living beyond a reasonable distance from schools or
belonging to the most underpriviledged segments of the population,
through provision of boarding.
3.        For primary and secondary schools, the standard classroom size
should be 600 sq. ft. for 40 students or fewer.
4.        The state programs should be identified and prepared by the SEDs
through their DEOs, and have been appraised by the MOE School Construction
Program Appraisal Subcommittee including representatives from DSD, EPRD, the
Schools Division, SEDs and PWD, in line with the above general and specific
criteria.
5.        The monitoring and evaluation of the state programs should be
carried out by the Joint Secretariat of the PIC in cooperation with the School
Construction Program Appraisal Subcommittee, and SEDs and DEOs at the various
levels of implementation and responsibility.
Primary Schools
6.        With regard to primary schools:
(a) Priority should be given to identified districts in which the
classroom:student and classroom:class ratios are below the national
average, beginning with the most disadvantaged districts.



- 68 -
ANNEX 18
Page 4 of 5
(b) Schools with enrollments over 1,000 pupils should be deconcentrated
where establishment of a new school could absorb excess enrollment
from the catchment area into a new unit of at least 150 students.
(c) Where local conditions permit, consolidation of underenrolled
schools in a given catchment area where the totai enrollment in a
consolidated new school, or extension to the most adequate existing
school, could result in a total enrollment of at least 150 students.
(d) Location of the school should take into consideration access road,
rivers and means of communication, the terrain, the students' age,
number of daily sessions and the time required to cover the distance
from home to school, so that students should not have more than
about three miles to walk under safe conditions.
(e) The utilization factor of school facilities as a whole should be no
less than 80Z.
(f) Special criteria developed by the Ministry of Education are
applicable to rural areas (e.g. establishment of a new class for a
minimum of 15 students). However, in underenrolled schools, the
minimum class size should be progressively brought to 24 and the 40-
student classrooms should be fully utilized through multigrade
teaching, to the extent possible.
Secondary Schools
7.        With regard to secondary schools:
(a) Priority should be given to identified districts in which the
classroom:student and classroom:class ratios are below the national
average, beginning with the most disadvantaged districts.
(b) Schools with enrollments over 1,600 students should be
deconcentrated where the establishment of a new school could absorb
excess enrollment from the catchment area into a new unit of at
least 240 students;
(c) Establishment of flexible design standards for secondary school
laboratories and workshops so that, whatever the new curriculum
being developed, these facilities could be adjusted and their
utilization factor would be no less than 75%.
(d) The utilization factor of classrooms should be no less than 80Z.
(e) Location of the school should take into consideration the points
mentioned in paragraph B.6(d) above, so that students should not
have more than about five miles to walk under safe conditions.
Resource Centers
8.        With regard to resource centers:



- 69 -
ANNEX 18
Page 5 of 5
(a) The subprojects should be instrumental in increasing resourcefulness
and creativity among teachers and students to implement the new
curricula; and in enabling schools throughout the country to benefit
from the programs produced by the Educational Media Service, in
order to bring about the educational outcomes described in paragraph
6.2.
(b) The new resource center facilities would be added to 295 primary
schools selected among the 365 schools to be provided with resource
equipment and materials under Loan 2685-MA (First Sector Project).
(c) The 295 schools would be selected on the basis of the following
criteria:
(i) the most acute need for adequate facilities to make most
efficient use of resource equipment and materials;
(ii) alleviation of the most acute constraints on teaching facili-
ties, due to their utilization as resource rooms for lack of
specific resource facilities; and
(iii) the most appropriate locations to serve the largest number of
students and teachers possible within the school in which the
resource center is established and in satellite schools which
it can also serve.



- 70 -
ANNEX 19
Page 1 of 2
MALAYSIA
SECOND PRIMARY Ah'D SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Guidelines and Criteria for Allocation of Loan Funds
under Programs and Subprojects
General Objectives
1.        Loan funds would be used according to the objectives of the primary
and secondary education subsector development program under the Fifth Malaysia
Plan (January 1986-December 1990), namely: (a) improving the quality of edu-
cation through implementation of new curricula, efficient use of educational
resources, and adequate facilities; (b) increasing the efficiency of educa-
tional management through staff development and cost efficiency oriented mea-
sures in relation to the utilization of facilities and staff; and (c) expand-
ing access to better education through provision of primary and secondary
school f'acilities in areas of greatest needs.
2.        Loan funds would be used for disbursement of the whole or part of
the expenditures on: (a) civil works; (b) furniture and equipment; and
(c) fellowships abrodd.
3.        Loan funds would be used for:  (a) a national level program and sub-
projects which would benefit the whole subsector and also the education sector
at large, namely staff development, and (b) state level programs and subpro-
jects which would address the specific needs of states and districts, namely
primary and secondary school facilities and related boarding, staff housing
and resource centers.
4.        Loan funds would be used for the above programs and subprojects in
accordance with general eligibility criteria for approval of such programs and
subprojects; and specific criteria for identification and appraisal of na-
tional and state level programs and subprojects, as stated separately in
Annexes 17 and 18.
5.        The present guidelines and criteria for allocation of loan funds
under programs and subprojects are subject to amendments and modifications
from time to time, after the Government and the Bank have reached agreements
on such amendments and modifications.
Specific Criteria and Guidelines
6.        By Component.  Overall respective allocations would not exceed
US$19.2 million for primary schools (i.e. 33% of total loan funds), US$27.9
million for secondary schools (47%), US$2.9 million for boarding facilities
(5Z), US$1.4 million for staff housing (2X), US$6.5 million for resource cen-
ters (11), and US$0.9 million for overseas fellowships (2X).



- 71 -
ANNE 19
Page 2 of 2
7.        By Obiective.  Assuming that resource centers, staff housing and 20Z
of the expenditure on new school facilities (insofar as they alleviate the
problems of double shifting and overcrowded classrcoms) contribute to
improving the quality of education, the overall allocation to this objective
would not exceed US$17.3 million (i.e. 29Z of total loan funds). As for the
programs and subprojects increasing educational management efficiency and
expanding access to better education, their overall allocation would not
exceed US$0.9 million (2%) and US$40.6 million (69%). The distribution of
loan funds reflects the emphasis placed on the various program objectives as
well as the bulk, degree of sophistication and cost of the respective
subprojects.
8.        By Program.  Overall allocation would not exceed US$0.9 million
(i.e. 2% of total loan funds) for the national level program and US$57.9
million (98%) for state level programs. This distribution gives an indication
of the emphasis placed on decentralization in educational management.
9.        Regional Distribution of Funds.  At least 90% of loan funds under
state level programs and subprojects would be allocated to school facilities
outside the capital area (Federal District). This reflects the emphasis
placed on assistance to disadvantaged rural districts. Any savings which
could be made from the construction programs during implementation would be
effectively used to further expand school construction in the most under-
privileged districts.
10.       Concentration of Funds.  Within the above ceiling for state level
programs, to avoid dispersion of funds, the 33 subprojects for boarding (10),
staff housing (9) and resource centers (14) would generaAly be implemented
together with the 28 subprojects for primary and secondary schools', i.e. two
subprojects (one for primary and one for secondary education) in each of the
13 states and in the Federal District.



- 72 -
ANNEX 20
SECOND PRMARYND SECONDRY EDUCAlION CTOR PROJC
wvplm.m Schedul
Cy:         t     49K  1SD         4960                        "a 49
E __        3 4 I 2    _ 4  a 3 4  1 2 3 4 4  2 3 4 4  8      4 4 2
1--~~~~~~ '                                                                     -L  - -
CNLVAM~~~~~~~                                             ~VAs
NddIo Evokatb & ~rCMtA *mo
2ognM
PuwpmIbPdw OmIw
fartu~mfuU  aind
mwai Ewjafln & .*mftdw
Guw.anb**t
P puaIIandUdCOacmunwt,
wftag. mjflan d&dDcu*ow
osk"6koagom~skgDa



- 73 -                             ANNEX 21
MALAYSIA
SECOND PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Critical Implementation Dates
Implementation
Start             Complete
Construction, Furnishing and Equipping
Primary schools                                  Apr 1988             Dec 1990
Secondary schools                                Apr 1988             Jun 1991
Student boarding                                 Feb 1988             Jun 1991
Staff housing                                    Feb 1988             Jun 1990
Resource centers                                 Jul 1988             Jun 1990
Technical Assistance
Staff development program
Fellowship abroad                              Oct 1988             Dec 1991
Local training                                 Jul 1988             Dec 1990



-74 -                          ANNEX 22
Page 1 of 3
MALAY~IA
SECOND PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Key Performance Indicators
1.        Objectives.  The principal objectives of the Government's 10-year
Plan of Action (Annex 5) are:
(a) to improve the quality of education through: (i) expanding the new
curricula gradually to the whole primary and secondary subsector;
(ii) training an adequate number of new qualified teachers and
upgrading the qualifications of inservice teachers; (iii) providing
schools with adequate educational resources; and (iv) reducing class
size and double shifting whenever they critically affect the
delivery of the new curricula and the students' learning process.
(b) to increase the efficiency of educational management through:
(i) implementing a comprehensive staff development program;
(ii) taking cost-efficiency oriented actions to keep constant or
reduce the number of underenrolled schools; expand multigrade
teaching; and reduce the unit areas and costs of school construc-
tion; and (iii) maximizing the quality and output of the subsector
through careful monitoring and evaluation, and pertinent studies.
(c) to expand access to better education through provision of adequate
facilities for students (academic and boarding) &nd teachers (staff
housing).
These improvements are being assisted through the on-going First Sector
Project which covers all of the above objectives and the proposed Second
Sector Project would complement the First Project in areas which still require
substantial further assistance, namely, schools and related housing facili-
ties, education resource facilities and staff development. For monitoring
progress with regard to these changes, the Government and the Bank have agreed
on the following key performance indicators for the Second Sector Project.
The indicators, which are similar to the First Sector Project with regard to
school facilities and staff development, will form the basis of progress
reports and be jointly reviewed by the Government and the Bank on an annual
basis and on the occasion of the mid-term review in March 1990.
2.        Monitoring of Physical Implementation and Related Expenditures
(a) Schools
-    Number of primary classrooms built annually by district
-    Number of secondary classrooms built annually by district in
Peninsular Malaysia and by division in Sabah and Sarawak
-    Number of additional primary and secondary enrollments by
district and/or division on an annual basis.



75                             ANNEX 22
Page 2 of 3
(b) Resource Centers
-    Number of primary schools provided with school or district
resource center facilities.
-    Total number of teacher's library books provided annually in
resource centers
(c) Staff Development:
-    Number and type of overseas fellowships awarded and completed
annually
-    Number and type of local training fellowships awarded and
completed annually
(d) Education Expenditures
-    Total annual investma-iz outlays on primary and secondary
education (by State for primary and secondary schools)
-    Share of such annual investment outlays in the overall educa-
tion investment budget
-    Share of such overall education investment budget in the total
government investment budget and in CNP
-    Total annual recurrent expenditure on primary and secondary
education (by State for primary and secondary education)
-    Share of such annual recurrent expenditure in the overall
education recurrent budget
-    Share of such overall recurrent budget in the total government
recurrent budget and in CNP



- 76 -                                            ANNUl 22
Page 3 of 3
3. )hnitoring of Achievements of Program Objectives. Monitoring of the major outcomes will include the follovings
Achievement of pro8ram objectives                    Base year .986                 1988           Target year 1990
IMPROVING THE QUALIM OF EDUCATION
Currlculum
Primary (RJSR)                                KBSR implementation in  KBSR implementation in  KBSR implementution in
Grades I to 3           all grades (1 to 6)      oll grades (1 to 6)
Secondary (KBSH)                                                                               UBSE isplementation in:
Grades 7-9 (languages).
Grades 7-8 (other sub-
jects) /a
Teachers
Preservice Training Output
TTC                                                 6,300                  8,800                      8,300
Universities                                        1,800                  2,200                      2,300
Inervice n         Outpt
Pricary
Long-term (one year)                            2,000                    480                      2,000
Short-term (below one year)                    8,000                  20,000/b                    9,000
Secondary (below one year)                        5,000                  s,ood71b                   6,000
Professionally unqualified                                                 1,600                      1,200
Proportion of Graduates
Lower secondary (S)                                     5                       6                        15
Upper secondary (2)                                    75                     76                         85
NUmber of Nongraduate Teacher Trainers
Upgraded (cumulative)                                    10                     45                        200
Educational Resources
Percentage of teachers borrowing materials and
equipment froa resource centers (X)                  n.a.                   n.a.                         20
Percentage of teachers attending courses in
resource centers (S)                                 n.a.                     10                         10
Facilities
Reduction of number of classes exceeding
45 students                                        10,000                 15,00O0/                        0
INCREASING THE EFMFCIENCY OF EDUCATIONAL MANAGEME8NT
Professional and adidnistrative staff trained           4,000                 10,000                     20,000
No increase in number of underenrolled schools          2,400                  2,560                      2,400
Increase of average class size in underenrolled
schools                                                  18                      16                        20
Percentage of underenrolled schools utilizing
!ultigrade teaching (2)                                  30                      30/d                      60
INCREASING ACCESS TO IMPROVED EDUCATION
Maintain Universal Primary Education (enrollment
ratios, 2)                                               98                     98/e                       98
Increase lower secondary enrolluent ratio (Z)              88                    86677                       92
Raising the national average classroom:class ratio
Primary (2)                                              84                     85                         90
Secondary (Z)                                            70                     74                         60
/a  Except for "Living Skills" (Forms I-III) and "Electives" (Forms IV-V) to be introduced in 1991 and m12, respec-
tively.
b Estimates.
PI The total nmober of overenrolled classes (above 40 students) has increased from 26,000 to about 31,000 over the last
two years. Of the latter, about 502 are assuned to be in classes above 45 students.
1d 769 out of 2,561 schoola.
A 2.2 illion primary students.
A Over 0.9 million lower secondary students.



-77 -                         ANNEX 23
Page 1 of 2
MALAYSIA
SECOND PRDMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATTON SECTOR PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Reports and Studies Related to the Subsector
A.1    Proposal for a Second Sectoral Investment Program in Primary and
Secondary Education, Government of Malaysia, July 1987.
A.2    Proposal on a Sectoral Investment Program for School Development
(Primary and Secondary) 1986-1995, Government of Malaysia, July 1984.
A.3    Education in Malaysia, A Review of Expenditures and Discussion of
Issues, Peter R. Moock, EDT, World Bank 1984.
A.4    The New Primary School Curriculum, MOE, 1982.
A.5    Educational Statistics of Malaysia 1980-1985, 'tnistry of Education,
1987.
A.6    Cabinet Committee Report on Education, Recommendations, Government of
Malaysia, 1979.
A.7    Teacher Education in Malaysia, MOE, 1983.
A.8    The Examination Syndicate, MOE, 1983.
A.9    The Educational Media Service, MOE, 1984.
A.10   School Resource Centers, MOE, 1984.
A.11   Primary and Secondary Education Sector Project.  Plan of Action on
Policy and Institutional Development. Status as of mid-1987, Ministry
of Education, 1987.
A.12   Belanjawen Persekutuan, 1985; Anggaran Perebelanjaan, 1985 (Budget
Book), Ministry of Finance Malaysia, 1984.
A.13   Belanjawan Persekutuan, 1986; Anggaran Perebelanjaan, 1986 (Budget
Book), Ministry of Finance Malaysia, 1985.
A.14   Education Budgets, 1985, 1986, 1987, Ministry of Finance.
A.15   Mid-Term Review of the Fourth Malaysia Plan, 1981-1985, Government of
Malaysia, 1984.
A.16   Fifth Malaysia Plan, 1986-1990, Government of Malaysia, 1986.



- 78 -                          ANNEX 23
Page 2 of 2
B. Working Papers and Data
B.1    Implementation of Foreign-Assisted Projects in Primary and Secordary
Education, 1986-91.
B.2    Financial Projections for Primary and Secondary Education, 1987-95
B.3    Budget Analysis:
Total Government Revenues and Expenditures, 1980-87
∞ducation Budgets, 1980-87
Detailed Education Recurrent Budgets, 1984-87
Budgeted Posts in Education, 1984-87
Average Salaries per Budgeted Post, 1984-87
Detailed Education Capital Budgets, 1984-87
Actual Expenditures, 1984-86
B.4    Project Cost Analysis
B.5    Project Incremental Recurrent Costs
B.6    References for SAR Text Figures
B.7    Basic Education Data, 1986
B.8    School Construction Program 1986-90
B.9    Classroom:  Class and Student:Classroom Ratios, 1986, 1988 and 1990.
Ba10   Standard Specifications and Designs for School Building Works



MALAYA
SECOND PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Shjuce of the Educatlon S,sten
4987
FRM            1        ELSEOW<,fUERSEOM  MCONDAW          POSTSECONIDARY
I                                                                                   TIher                   a      9
I          i          I                  S                 I                 ITT I
I                     I                  I                                   ItS bmhl
I~~~                                        ~~~~~~~ I                                           kI
I                     g                                             >-i
IM-                                       I  I
R -        R    oI)                      I                 Id
Test~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~& ehk  od
SC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dir -9dD
I  ~~~~S* I                          I S      0doi S                     8
SIl  -1111            I                  i           {     I                    a
I      I                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TI   kop
91   -LwI F
SI   - MID Twol                          lawwlc I9S                             AAT*i  e
MYR  -WWdYuf                                                                                               TACM
UU   -I ImAk*                        ,                     I
Too~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
.,  ,    ,I,  ,    |    ,  I    ,    ,  '   ,    ,  I   ,    ,   ,   |   ,  ,   ,  ,  '          1
SCwl  -  calm     a                                                           ,bWcSTrcnb,g ceNe
S    -   wwmdcaywa                                        ISI                 YSmf  wt
SW -S IW Ih akm
SIP   - SP0 sk                                                CMR TkqVR
IAR - Turimi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAAa*s nlIue
tm - TwmAbmRPM" i 
Ag 6  7  8  9  to  11   12 i2-1313-14 W14-16        15.16 16.17     17-18 18-19       19-20    2D321 21-22   22423  23244
i~~~~i  III  !   II  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    II   a   II     I    I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~e



MALAYA
SCON    PRAARY AND SECONDARY EDUC.AU     SECTOR PROJECT
EducSon Ppon"(986)
ASSOF
Aral GBDE                                  MA                                                         FEME                                  *9W" -AGE GROtP
-   -                                                                                                 ML                                     W      IO
232-2 V                                                                   t                                                                    t269
2t.22 tt                                                                                                                                      IS 41
232t21 It4t77969                                                                                                                              1935
19-2D 1                                                          14110ttC                                                                     25617   14
pmfS&;                                                           4333t3(67  -3203zt (43J)                                                     7536
18-19|3 1p6                                                     17e99    2087
17-18 1_21r.6                                                    a             2943297                                                                  t2
tJ  KX                                                         37i∞W      ,."47 )(46)                                                         U19J0
t6711                                        7*9M1                                           MI __I5 S57                                              4n
t516 t O                0PS9F∞ 866t775t545
L    SECONDARYCE88 56%                                                                        165tt4 (49%)                                 3X70
14-5 9 Faim3                                                                                                                                 271619
13-14 8                       U2916                                                                                                          2791&0O
t2-13 7                    t5t2731                                                       _       m _4          9                             292t66t 
-t2 _R4I|  46Y856                                                                                                                           923W 
_RARY           4794t28 (5t%)                                              47(49S                                                           93156
II 6_ _ _6918D0                                                                                                  670
9 4           19t6 8iM                                                                                                 z6   f;f    ifßp'\gf:.fr>:1 372593  90
8 3           t9SM_                                                                    _                       _ 1 7                           566
7        2                                                                                                                               _94  __t w  379274
6    t    2042I1321 79                                                                                                                         77 39774tt
Gidto}    2948786 (MS~)                                                                                                    t947JC3(49S)  42
t  I i  ii  *iIiipI,|It  Il  p pI  mapII|   I I s a a |ImmamSI            
2tJ0     t151AJ         W0G           SOIJ0        ,0                        1Wm tJ        SJJ          2DJ.00 
PNoF
'hodn        Inh pAf hdL&  a. ND bmmdA by we b a*dig an U* 5A2 P*rray
h hp        lo _( -I -1emit7)_tiolwdt
h_hwftm        lc*lF"n mwmQQ47 #Mtoo           nlcan S    d0at adet*vclm&Ph*
4.a_ a_         n         _aa                                                                                                                   to7a     "',M
sQfr(mClmn_: Twiblnckp              %hN



-81l-         cu~
Elil
{l~~~~~~~il
41~ ~ ~            U,-.-
* jII 1
I         ,!            a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
fi X HI- 'I -
sill M       S-,.}II     I
jH I Ic,mo-U,-X
X I1 ri j



MMALAY
SECOND PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Operational Chart of Educaonal Planning
Minie of Educotion
CA*NET
Niotna Developet
Plarning Comnittee (NDPC)
Educational                               _ CMM'tte     Eckm:io Planning Unit (EPU)
emehp insroEducation                         Prime Minses Departmet
M    Minod Eduxx7fbn
Two Deputy Mnirdeis
Seaetay-Gerner
Dbector-Genercl 
Two Deputy Secretardes-General                                                                       s
Two Deputy DIrectors-General
minis[w d Education                                    Dir-eor of ERD                                       P,anning committees
1. DeveloprnentCommittee
Unh stes                _                    E           ang & Reseach                          2Z Hwher Education Planning Committee
Dision (EPRD)
(s secretariat)                             3. Central Cu irculum Cormmee
Sklte Educotion Depabr _t
4 Textboolos Technicad Corrmmtee
6.Fnance Committee
tokbucNn                    _                      lAwoeUl Agid
.Rebled to Education                          6. Scholorslps & Tranfing Committee
Source: Milby d Education                                                                                                                  World BInk-26956



-83-           CHART 5
0g 
isZE ii
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c



- 84 -            C}1ART 6
1~~                                      1*



IX                   --in
,I                  .-  I                   I
10II    11                                       XI
I *         I 
t ;D                     - S-8IQ-



MALAYSA
SECOND PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATON SECTOR PROJECT
Mnhutty A Education
D.         Iiop.n and Suppke DMsion
Oranatn Chait (4987)
I         cIsSl~                 I L             -                            11 Penipa AsMn                                                    rniplAm
SerayV                                       Secltorl                                                                                   sectetav
1     1 ß                                    I                     AssslstAn?                                  1iOAs0tant
Seacretores                                  Ses                                           Seeto                                       Secetcr
I hwnad Sacm " Oer                         c 1    Ew  Offier                 I                                                                     I                 .
I Sta9dn c                              E         A                                                                                      1 Seior Eecute   Offcr
1   Becurve omcer                     2 O1wa*I E5h IOo er
I ~Engw
I Quantiy Swveyor_
i Achetect
2 Senior Tecnica Auistonts                           i SeOr Chiet Clek
i Techlbd AssMnt - CM) EgIneeI                       5 Cbs
I Tecthnca Asiant - Electical EngiWering             I Sivsa
I Techndcal Assitont - Ahdecte                      13 TypIst
I Technical Asant - Quantiy Surveying                4      SwweqI'h
sOfice Persn
4 R ileSearchers
I TeSphone OPera 
I Chbt Cle                     1               Chf           1 ek                     Iaffset MchnOpe*    a              iIor
I 1Clneftl                                    8 CW4s                                   1 Secudiy GWxl                                      lctl*@tcbn
IBook-Ilkeper-eper I o                                                                3 Dver                                            1aClft
Word Bo-275S3



IBRD 20259
MALAYSIA
Peninsular Malaysia
SECOND PRIMARY AND
SECONDAFtY EDUCATION
SECTOR PROJECT
5 4Kota CLASSROOM/CLASS RATIO
BY DISTRICT
//*   PRIMARY EDUCATION. 1986
P6 PJe/ANk Put_iV -X;                      ^*Classroom/Class  a
8uQtto'  g   '          EaRation
2     1.08- 1.17
g   ffi     X                             <          i30undariecStaclar
Deviations i
oMw          -~      -        .98   1.07
i  .838 - .07
Georg                                       Tre               0    -~~~~Kime  78 -.a7
KELAIWAN              -2 -       ~~.68 -.??
-20 t  R.58 - .-7
P   20 lOV  e4 t0                      LvW"beAWthw--
Education
-'  Boundaries
/   (~) state capitals
-4' Æ8 - 3.National Capital
4400  foront"t               ~~~Boundaries
International
Boundaries
>                ~~~~~~~~~~4-
so_ so^ 10l0 
APRIL iose



r AND
SECONDAI                             .CTOR PROJECT
CLASSROOWCLASS      O BY DSTRT
s     E PlNRY EWflGL 366e, 
'~~~lsou '    J(Na _n
'lf                                             KN I"                     ''e'SWAHN.t @ 
L)~~~M 1.w-1.
1-a 2       6-10
19 *07,
Asr
/HPM
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I    AV8 
I N DON E S I A                                                       MEA
3 ~~""~~    iid                  itt (Kaltmanan)                                     4a)



IBRD 19948
MALAYSIA
Peninsular Malaysia
SECOND PRIMARY AND
HLKLi#\\  tx                          \  SECONDARY EDUCATION
8zKsnn   t<    >   SECTOR PROJECT
Kota CLASSROOM/CLASS RATIO
hrf  -IC    BY  DISTRICT
.SECONDARY EDUCATION. 1986
Puak.-)-'f  Puteh/ 1 ;  /¢Clasurr,rnm/Class
R4atio:     e
Standard    *42       .   - 1.05
Sn MwOhaag  \        Deviai-ona *             .3
| .AN   '.-M /    K&AA'~4N  <                T.ti__nu     -2- -       46 - .57
)o  ; G < C   "No  ~ ;     Tragfgnu >2  34 -45
Pf .P/A/.A NG      t        a'.         L U KXRen}(taa   t   TfZfBtG>t 0  *  Mean VA/.  .70  e
Education
-  Olstrict
Boundaries
0  State capitals
National Capital
state
44718  iorentut              ~~Boundaries
International
Boundaries
0   20  40 61140 100         're                                                   o/t
SELAN  _<                      >                      China~~~~~~~~~Kuinat
- AbS'I40 40 d1O. o, St"  AB
K4071$/~~~~Kvl P) 1u1a ftho.1   .    . .
A  o A s    S i A a I A
A                         1 0 2A                                           1 9 5.
;                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APRIL 1988



r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                         11 ..                     1480
AND
SECONDAI.    :ATION SECTOR PROJECT
CLASSROOWCLASS RAI10 BY OBSTRICT
9,E~OONDARY eDUCA1ON198
.   "    \s l;EOaXMy  F m e^        ,                                  _ -  j KM tome
aX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f#                                                      e         - S U An_H 
>/> i-2 g .82-.98 2: ............~~~~~~~~~~~~~............. 
L55R--2--i--
o~,1 .. e 6, st40 e,>e, I 4D OPaB   N  EI
(E)   14MV04004,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,"t.e e  aca
nntad ~~ o~,'s IAOin,  -,
INDONESIA  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l i' k   -A                                                AoL
Bum~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t..ao en. 
I   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _._ _h



