Page  1
                                                  CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2987 MA
      (Second Primary and Secondary Education Sector Project)
                              between
                             MALAYSIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated August 11, 1988
                        LOAN NUMBER 2987 MA
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  August  11,  1988,  between  MALAYSIA (the
Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL   BANK   FOR   RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS: (A) the Bank  has  received  a letter dated March 5,
1986 from the Ministry  of  Education  of the Borrower, describing
objectives and policies  designed  for  the development of primary
and  secondary  education  together   with  a  program  of  action
(hereinafter called  the  Letter  of  Policy),  and  declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the  implementation  of said policies and
to the execution of the program of action;
     (B)  the Borrower has  requested  the  Bank  to assist in the
financing  of  measures  to  be  undertaken  pursuant  to,  or  in
furtherance of, the provisions of the Letter of Policy through the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the
Loan as hereinafter provided; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
Page  2
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan  and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted (the General Conditions),
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Sub-project" means  a  sub-project  to  be  carried out
under the Project; and
     (b)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the Loan
Agreement, an amount  in  various  currencies equivalent to fifty-
eight million eight hundred thousand dollars ($58,800,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open  and  maintain  a  special  account  in  a  fully convertible
currency, in a bank, and  on  terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. Deposits into, and  payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1992 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half  of  one  percent  per  annum  above  the  Cost  of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
Page  3
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project through
its Ministry of Education with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity   with   appropriate   administrative,   financial  and
educational practices, and shall  provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and  other  resources required for the
Project.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  shall select, appraise and imple-
ment Sub-projects  in  accordance  with  guidelines,  criteria and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  carry out training under  the Project in accordance with
programs, schedules and  staffing,  and with facilities, satisfac-
tory to the Bank; and
     (b)  award fellowships under  the  Project in accordance with
criteria and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower  shall, in accordance with perfor-
mance indicators satisfactory to the Bank, monitor and evaluate:
     (a)  distribution of  education  facilities  and resources by
district;
     (b)  education quality and cost effectiveness;
     (c)  level of education expenditures; and
     (d)  teacher training for primary and secondary education.
     Section 3.06. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
9.07 (a) of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  by February 15 and September 15 of each year, furnish to
the Bank a report on the  actions  taken pursuant to the Letter of
Policy and on Project implementation,  in  such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request;
Page  4
     (b)  by March 31 and October 31 of each year, on the basis of
the reports referred  to  hereinabove,  review  with  the Bank the
status of the actions taken  pursuant  to the Letter of Policy and
the implementation of  the  Project,  and  agree  with the Bank on
performance indicators  and  targets  to  be  established  for the
following year; and
     (c)  in addition to the foregoing, by March 31, 1990, conduct
a comprehensive mid-term review with  the  Bank with regard to the
actions  taken  pursuant  to   the   Letter   of  Policy  and  the
implementation of the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices,  the  operations, resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section including those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
Page  5
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this  Agreement  is   hereby   specified   for   the  purposes  of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister  of  Finance or Deputy Minister of
Finance of the  Borrower  is  designated  as representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Treasury
          Jalan Duta
          50592 Kuala Lumpur
          Malaysia
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               TREASURY                          MA 30242
               Kuala Lumpur                      MA 32369
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    MALAYSIA
                    By /s/ Albert S. Talalla
                                       Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
                                  Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
Page  6
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated             % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works and         48,800,000         35%
     related profes-
     sional services
(2)  Equipment, fur-          6,500,000         100% of foreign
     niture, books                              expenditures,
     and materials                              100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost), and 70%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(3)  Overseas                   800,000         100%
     fellowships
(4)  Unallocated              2,700,000
          TOTAL              58,800,000
                            ===========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to  the  date  of  this  Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate  amount  not exceeding the equivalent
of  $5,500,000  may  be  made  on  account  of  payments  made for
expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1988.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of  the  Project  are  the improvement, at the
primary and secondary level, of  the  quality of education and the
efficiency of educational management,  and  the increase of access
to better education.
     The Project consists of financing Sub-projects under National
and State  level  programs  for  the  purposes  set  forth  in the
following parts,  subject  to  such  modifications  thereof as the
Borrower and the Bank may agree  upon from time to time to achieve
such objectives:
Part A:   Construction
Page  7
     Construction, furnishing and equipping of:
     (1)  resource centers;
     (2)  schools;
     (3)  staff housing; and
     (4)  students' housing
Part B:   Staff Development
     Implementation of  a  staff  development  program  to include
local and overseas  training  for teachers, supervisors, advisors,
managers and others.
          *              *              *              *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1991.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each May and November 1
     beginning May 1, 1994
     through   November 1, 2003                2,940,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
     Time of Prepayment                           Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the  Loan  on  the day
                                         of  prepayment multiplied
                                         by:
Not more than three years                        0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                        0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                          0.73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                   0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years before                  1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
Page  8
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   For bidding purposes, contracts  for  goods shall be grouped,
to the extent practicable, in  packages each estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, in  such  a manner so as to permit
bulk procurement.
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1  hereof,  goods manufactured in Malaysia may
be granted a margin of  preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works  under  the Project, may be awarded
on the basis of  local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.
2.   Contracts  for  goods   grouped   in   packages  costing  the
equivalent of $200,000 or less  each,  may be awarded on the basis
of local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   Goods estimated to cost  less  than the equivalent of $35,000
each and up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$700,000 may  be  procured  in  accordance  with procedures satis-
factory to the Bank on the basis of quotations from at least three
suppliers or through the Borrower's standard contracts.
4.   Books  and  instructional   materials   may  be  procured  in
accordance with the  Borrower's  normal procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.
Part D.   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract awarded in accordance with
the procedures described in  Part  A.1  hereof, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4  of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract  are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall  be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of  the contract required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Bank prior to  the  making  of  the  first  payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
Page  9
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory to the Bank.  Such  consultants  shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  the  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank  in  August  1981,  and shall be employed in
accordance with time schedules satisfactory to the Bank.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in  the  table  in  paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time  to  the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account  shall  be  made  exclusively  for eligible expen-
ditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount  of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall  have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the  basis  of  such  requests,  the Bank  shall
withdraw from the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  into  the  Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special
Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out
of  the  Special  Account  for  eligible  expenditures.  All  such
deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from the Loan Account
under the respective  eligible  Categories,  and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall  have  been justified by the evidence
supporting the  request  for  such  deposit  furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
Page  10
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made directly by the Borrower
               from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the
               provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories, minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General
               Conditions with respect  to  the  Project, shall be
               equal to the equivalent of  twice the amount of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the  Loan Account of the re-
maining unwithdrawn amount of  the  Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be  made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the  Special  Account  (i)  was made for any expen-
diture or in any amount  not  eligible  pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon notice from the
Bank, deposit into the Special  Account  (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion  thereof  not  so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
