Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H465-GM 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Public Sector Reform and Growth Grant) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 8, 2009 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H465-GM 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated June 8, 2009, entered into between REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program  
(as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide 
this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate 
macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby 
agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to   
four million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,500,000) 
(variously 
“Financing” or “Grant”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
Page  3
2
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Reci pient shall promptly inform the Association of any 
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a 
 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
 Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Secretary of State for Finance and 
 Economic 
Affairs. 
 6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Department of State for Finance and Economic Affairs 
The Quadrangle 
Banjul, The Gambia 
 
Facsimile: 
4227954 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
Page  4
3
AGREED at District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA 
 
By /s/ Neneh Macdouall-Gaye 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ McDonald P. Benjamin 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under 
 
the Program include the following: 
1. 
Improve the Use of Public Resources
 
(a) T
he Recipient’s Gambia Revenue Authority  (GRA) has: (i) endorsed a 
 
three-year strategic plan; (ii) prepared and disseminated new operational 
 
manuals; and (iii) carried out staff sensitization training, as reflected .in a 
 
letter from the Commissioner General of GRA dated January 27, 2009. 
(b) 
The 2007 Recipient’s accounts have been submitted to the Recipient’s 
 
National Audit Office, as certified by the Director of Treasury through a 
 
letter dated August 29, 2008. 
(c) 
The maintenance costs of IFMIS have been included in the 2009 
 Recipient’s 
budget.
 
(d) 
The audited Recipient’s accounts for 2000 to 2004 have been submitted 
 
to the National Assembly, as certified by the Recipient’s Vice President 
 
in a letter dated  January 26, 2009. 
(e) 
The Recipient’s economic census and the national accounts have been 
 
published by the Recipient’s Gambia Bureau of Statistics. 
2. 
Strengthen Civil Service Capacity 
(f) 
A
civil service reform strategy has been adopted by the Recipient’s 
 
Cabinet as confirmed by the Permanent Secretary of the Personnel 
 
Management Office through a letter dated December 2, 2008.
 
(g) 
The Recipient’s payroll system in IFMIS has been computerized as 
 
confirmed by the Recipient’s Permanent Secretary of State for Finance 
 
through a letter dated January 26, 2009.
 
Page  6
5
3. 
Revitalize the Groundnut Sector
 
(h) 
An agreement for management of the groundnut sector has been entered 
 
into, as  evidenced by the framework of agreement signed between the 
 
Recipient and ASPA on December 1, 2008. 
(i) 
The financial audit of the 
Recipient’s Gambia Groundnut Corporation 
 
has been launched through the selection of a firm based on technical and 
 
financial evaluations through an open and competitive process as 
 
evidenced by a selection evaluation report produced by the Recipient’s 
 
Gambia Investment Promotion Free Zones Agency.
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a 
single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set 
out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Tranche 
                  4,500,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
                  4,500,000 
C. Deposits 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise 
 
agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable 
to the Association; and 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount  
of the Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for 
in the Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to 
the Association. 
 
Page  7
6
D. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
1. 
have the account and the recording of amounts of the Grant into the 
Recipient’s budget management system
 
referred to in Part C of this 
Section audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association; 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and  
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the said 
account and recording of Grant amounts into the budget management 
system, and their audit, as the Association shall reasonably request. 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
 
from the Association, refund an  amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
 
the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
 cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2009.  
Page  8
7
APPENDIX 
Section I. Definitions 
1. 
“ASPA” means Agro-business Services and Producers Association” established 
and registered in the Recipient’s Companies Act/55.  
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national  
or international financing institution or agency other than the Association 
or the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association 
or the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant 
or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
Group Sub-group 
Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether 
or not containing tobacco 
substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718  
 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 
Page  9
8
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party and any other goods 
designated as environmentally hazardous by agreement between the 
Recipient and the Association; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
4.  
“IFMIS” 
means 
the 
Recipient’s 
Integrated Financial Management 
Information System.
 
5. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated February 9, 2009 from the Recipient to the 
Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during its execution. 
6. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
 
Page  10
9
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the 
“International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
“Section 2.05.
 Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of 
the proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the
 
Association or 
the Bank (“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the 
Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and 
outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal 
from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if 
any, on the advance as at such date.  The Association shall pay the 
amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
Page  11
10 
 
7. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
(a) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” 
and its definition is modified to read as follows:  
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.
”
Page  12
11 
 
