Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB4430 
Project Name 
Public Sector Reform and Growth Grant 
Region Africa 
Sector 
Central government administration (40%); General public 
administration Sector (30%); and Agriculture market and trade 
(30%) 
Project ID 
P107398 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF THE GAMBIA 
DEPARTMENT OF STATE FOR FINANCE AND 
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS 
Contact Person:  The Hon. 
Mousa G. Bala-Gaye
,
Secretary of 
State for Finance and Economic Affairs 
Tel: 220-4227636 
Fax: 220-227954 
Date PID Prepared 
October 23, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
November 17, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 31, 2008 
The proposed Public Sector Reform and Growth Grant is a one-tranche development policy grant of US$7 
million equivalent.  It is designed to help the Government implement its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper 
(PRSP) in the context of a framework for multidonor budget support. 
 
1.    Country and Sector Background 
 
The Gambia is a relatively small West African country with a population of 1.7 million, an average per 
capita GDP of US$320 (Atlas method, 2007) and a ranking of 155 out of 177 countries in the 2007 UN 
Human Development Index. The overall poverty headcount ratio is 58 percent, with large socioeconomic 
and regional variations. The economy is relatively undiversified and dependent on agriculture, tourism and 
the re-export trade. 
Groundnuts are The Gambia’s most important cash crop and export, and groundnut 
farmers are among the poorest in the country.  The country’s PRSP focuses on: maintaining macroeconomic 
stability; building public sector capacity through reforms of public financial management (PFM) and the 
civil service; promoting private sector development in key sectors such as agriculture and tourism; and 
improving education and health.  
 
2.    Operation Objectives 
 
The main development objectives of the proposed grant are to:  
 
(i) 
Promote efficiency, transparency and accountability in the use of public resources through improved 
public expenditure management, revenue reforms and strengthening of public procurement and 
official statistics;  
 
(ii) 
Build public sector capacity by initiating civil service reforms;  
 
(iii) 
Initiate restructuring of the groundnut sector, the country’s most important export.  
 
The proposed operation will support the government efforts to pursue its policy objectives within a 
sustainable macroeconomic framework, strengthen the overall performance of the economy and contribute 
Page  2
to poverty alleviation. The reforms of the public sector will enhance effective use of public expenditures 
and improve the Government
’s capacity for public service delivery. The restructuring of the groundnut 
sector is expected to contribute to the revitalization of the sector and improve the livelihood for the poor 
groundnut farmers. The development objectives are consistent with pillars one (macroeconomic stability 
and public sector reform) and two (promotion of pro-poor growth and employment through private sector 
development) of the PRSP. 
 
3.    Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Through the PRGF-Supported Program, the country has enjoyed sustained and robust growth and low 
inflation in recent years. The Bank is closely coordinating with the Fund in assisting the government in 
maintaining prudent macroeconomic and poverty reduction policies in face of the global economic 
downturn.  There has been relatively good progress in implementing the reforms supported by the proposed 
operation, including most of the prior actions. The 2007 public accounts have been prepared and IFMIS 
recurrent costs have been incorporated into the 2009 budget. The Cabinet has adopted a civil service reform 
strategy. The Framework of Agreement (FOA) for the management of the groundnuts sector has been 
finalized and signed by the Government and key private stakeholders.  In addition, the reforms supported by 
the proposed operation require a sound macroeconomic environment.   
 
4.    Financing 
 
Grant amount: 
US$7 million equivalent 
Number of tranches: 
One 
Amount of each tranche: 
US$7 million equivalent 
 
5.    Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
Specific PRSP reform actions and monitorable indicators are outlined in the Government’s Joint General 
Budget Support (JGBS) Policy Matrix, covering 2008-10. The proposed operation will support the 
implementation of key reform initiatives envisioned for 2008 in the JGBS Policy Matrix. It will be 
coordinated with the AfDB and the EC who are planning supporting the implementation of 2009-10 reforms 
in the JGBS Policy Matrix. Bank staffs will monitor actions and review implementation progress of the 
JGBS Policy Matrix jointly with the Government and the AfDB and the EC.  The National Planning 
Commission (NPC) and the Department of State for Finance and Economic Affairs (DOSFEA) will jointly 
take the lead among Government agencies for coordinating the implementation and reporting of 
implementation progress. The review process will focus on impact outcomes of the program and the 
adjustments needed to the operation in order to realize the best options for achieving the intended 
development goals in light of the latest country developments and stakeholder support. 
 
6.    Benefits and Risks 
 
Expected 
Key Benefits 
include: (i) improved capacity for management of public resources and greater 
transparency and good governance resulting from the public sector reforms, including the civil service 
reforms; and (ii) the promotion of private sector development and poverty reduction among groundnut 
farmers through the groundnut sector reforms.  
 
The 
Main Risks 
and their mitigating actions are:  
 
(i)  Low institutional capacity of the government, which is mitigated by a reform agenda which is 
streamlined and selective, in line with the capacity constraints of the government. Most of the reform 
measures supported by the operation are ongoing activities. In addition, the government will continue to 
receive support for capacity building through various donor projects, including from IDA, AfDB, EC and 
UNDP. 
 
Page  3
(ii) Failure to maintain prudent macroeconomic policies and resource constraints imposed by the global 
economic slowdown, which have been partly mitigated by the close dialogue and coordination with IDA, 
IMF and other donors on appropriate policy responses. This dialogue has included the possible need for 
augmented concessional external aid. The existing PRGF-Supported Program is expected to continue to 
provide a sound basis for prudent management of the macroeconomy. 
 
(iii) Difficulties of
 
sustaining reforms in the groundnut sector, which has been addressed through extensive 
consultations to ensure country ownership, alignment of reform measures with government sector strategy 
and additional complementary investment support provided by IDA and the EC. Sustained political 
commitment will be critical to the success of the proposed reforms. 
 
7.    Poverty and Social Impact Impacts and Environmental Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Impact.  
The reform measures supported by the proposed grant are expected to have a 
significant positive poverty and social impact. The strengthening of public sector capacity and official 
statistics is expected to improve the government’s ability to reallocate resources to poverty reducing 
expenditures and deliver public services in line with the PRSP priorities. The poor would benefit from a 
stable macroeconomic environment and better targeted public interventions. Civil service reforms include 
increasing the pay of lower grade government officials who are below the official poverty line. 
The groundnut sector reforms can eventually significantly impact rural poverty given that rural groundnut 
farmers are among the poorest in the country. Groundnut farmers are quite dependent on the sale of their 
crops and have been vulnerable to the erratic performance of the distribution and marketing arrangements in 
the sector. A key objective of the ongoing sector reforms is to provide groundnut farmers with a stable 
market for their products with minimum producer prices, which would improve the predictability of the 
income of farmers and thus lower the level of their vulnerability.  
Environmental Aspects.
 
The specific reforms supported by the proposed development policy operation 
are not likely to have significant direct effects on the country’s environment. The priority environmental 
challenges in the country include deforestation, desertification, and erosion and salinization of tidal lands 
far upriver. There are no obvious environmental aspects to the public sector reforms. The proposed 
groundnut sector reforms focus on improving the regulatory framework of the sector and auditing of the 
Government-owned groundnut processing plants. Such reforms are unlikely to result in any significant 
environmental degradation. However, the government will be encouraged to monitor the potential adverse 
effects and implement appropriate actions as necessary. Environmentally sustainable farming methods are 
part of the government’s extension programs. 
 
8.    Contact point 
 
Contact:  Hoon S. Soh 
Title:  Senior Economist 
Tel:  202-473-2584 
Fax:  202-473-8136 
Email:  
Hsoh@worldbank.org
9.    For more information, contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 532-1500 
Web:  Http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Page  4
