Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB4297 
Project Name 
Public Sector Reform and Growth Grant 
Region Africa 
Sector 
Central government administration (40%); General public administration 
Sector (30%); and Agriculture market and trade (30%) 
Project ID 
P107398 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF THE GAMBIA 
DEPARTMENT OF STATE OF FINANCE 
Contact Person:  
Mousa G. Bala-Gaye
,
Minister of Finance 
Tel: 220-4227636 
Fax: 220-227954 
Date PID Prepared 
October 23, 2008 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
November 17, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
February 26, 2008 
The proposed Public Sector Reform and Growth Grant is a one-tranche development policy grant of US$7 million 
equivalent.  It is designed to help the Government implement its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) in the 
context of a framework for multidonor budget support. 
 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The Gambia has made significant progress in maintaining a sound macroeconomic environment which has 
resulted in an extended period of robust growth and low inflation. The HIPC and MDRI relief provided through 
the completion point in December 2007 significantly reduced external debt, while fiscal discipline and sharply 
curtailed domestic borrowing also sharply reduced the domestic debt. The quality of public financial management 
has steadily improved, particularly with the development of the Integrated Financial Management Information 
System (IFMIS) in 2007. The ongoing civil service reform program will further strengthen the capacity of the 
public sector to improve service delivery. Access to basic education has significantly improved through donor 
support and the Government is now renewing its focus on tertiary education and the quality of teaching. The 
challenge for the health sector is to ensure that the health centers are properly staffed and drugs and equipment are 
adequately supplied. Policy responses to such challenges are outlined in the PRSP covering 2007-11, which the 
proposed grant will support in coordination with other donors. The additional resources provided by the grant will 
be help expand the fiscal space for poverty-reducing expenditures, particularly in light of the expected global 
downturn and high international prices for fuel and food. 
 
2. 
Proposed objective(s) and description 
 
The main development objectives of the proposed grant are to:  
 
(i) 
Promote efficiency, transparency and accountability in the use of public resources through improved public 
expenditure management, revenue reforms and strengthening of public procurement and official statistics;  
 
(ii) 
Build public sector capacity by initiating civil service reforms;  
 
(iii) I
nitiate restructuring of the groundnut sector, the country’s most important export.  
 
The proposed operation will support the government efforts to pursue its policy objectives within a sustainable 
macroeconomic framework, strengthen the overall performance of the economy and contribute to poverty 
alleviation. The reforms of the public sector will enhance effective use of public expenditures and improve the 
Page  2
Government
’s capacity for public service delivery. The restructuring of the groundnut sector is expected to 
contribute to the revitalization of the sector and improve the livelihood for groundnut farmers who are among the 
poorest in the country. The development objectives are consistent with pillars one (macroeconomic stability and 
public sector reform) and two (promotion of pro-poor growth and employment through private sector 
development) of the PRSP. 
 
3.    Environmental aspects 
 
The specific reforms supported by the proposed development policy operation are not likely to have significant 
direct effects on The Gambia’s environment. The priority environmental challenges in the country include 
deforestation, desertification, and erosion and salinization of tidal lands far upriver. The public sector reforms 
supported by the proposed operation are unlikely to significantly exacerbate these problems. 
 
Regarding the groundnut sector, the DPO reforms focus on improving the regulatory framework of the sector and 
auditing the government’s groundnut processing plants. Environmental degradation resulting from over-
exploitation of resources is unlikely given that groundnut productions are currently historically low. However, the 
government will be encouraged to monitor the potential adverse effects and implement appropriate actions as 
necessary. Environmentally sustainable farming methods are part of the government’s extension programs. 
 
The main government agencies responsible for environmental management are the Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA) and the Department of State for Agriculture (DOSA). The government is contemplating updating 
its Environmental Action Plan (1994) into a more comprehensive and integrated strategy based on a long term and 
coordinated approach. The institutional environment could benefit from further strengthening, with improved 
cross-sectoral coordination and participation and greater provision of public information. 
 
4.    Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT  
 
0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
7 
Total
7
6.    Contact point 
 
Contact:  Hoon S. Soh 
Title:  Senior Economist 
Tel:  202-473-2584 
Fax:  202-473-8136 
Email:  
Hsoh@worldbank.org
