Document of
FILE COPY                        The World Bank-
FOR OFFICiAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2188a-YU
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
REPUBLISKA SKUPNOST ZA CESTE S.R. SLOVENIJE
(Republic Community for Roads of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia)
SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA CESTE S.R. HRVATSKE
(Self-Managing Community of Interest for Roads of the Socialist Republic of Croatia)
REPUBLICKA SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE BEOGRAD
(Republican Self-Managing Community of Interest for Roads. BelRrade)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
NINTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
March 10. 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanee of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Uorld Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit                       -                     Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
US$1                                                      Din. 18.00
Din. 1                                                    US$0.0555
Din. 1,000                          -                     US$55.55
Din. 1,000,000                      -                     US$55,555.55
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973,
as of January 10, 1978, the rate was Din. 18.4452=$l.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL      -             Basic Organization of Associated Labor
COI       -             Community of Interest
CRO       -             The Council of,RepVblican and Provincial Road Organizations
ER        -             Economic Return
LDR       -             Less Developed Region (of Yugoslavia)
SFRY      -             Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
TYH       -             Trans-Yugoslav Highway



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA: NINTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrowers:            Road Organizations of Slovenia, Croatia and Serbia
Guarantor:             Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Amount:               US$80 million equivalent in various currencies
Terms:                Amortization in 15 years, including a 3-year grace period,
with interest at 7.45 percent per annum.
Project               The Project focusses on eliminating bottlenecks and
Description:         facilitating traffic flows on the E94 Trans-Yugoslav High-
way (TYH)--Yugoslavia's main highway artery--and would
comprise:  the construction of four sections totalling 86
km and the procurement of equipment for maintenance and
for monitoring loadings of vehicles using the primary
highway network, including TYH. The benefits of the
proposed project, which centers on improvement of TYH,
would permeate the entire Yugoslav economy and include
improved planning and coordination and aiding Yugoslavia's
access to international capital markets.  No special risks
are expected in the execution of the proposed project.
Estimated Cost:                                                  US$ Million
Local      Foreign       Total
Road Construction:
(i) Slovenia (9.2 km)                          32.60        13.97        46.57
(ii) Croatia (48.3 km)                           65.48       28.02        93.50
(iii) Serbia (28.3 km)                            29.45       15.00        44.45
Equipment                                          0.20         1.00         1.20
Physical contingencies                            12.77         5.80        18.57
Price escalation                                  36.50        16.21       52.71
Total                                            177.00        80.00      257.00*
Financing Plan:                                                  US$ Million
Local      Foreign       Total
IBRD Loan                                           -          80.00       80.00
Republics' Contributions                         177.00          -         177.00
Total                                            177.00        80.00       257.00
*    Includes about $30.8 million equivalent in taxes and duties or about 12
percent of total project costs.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated
Disbursement:                                               US$ Million
FY79       FY80        FY81
Annual                                           18          39          23
Cumulative                                       18          57          80
Economic Rates       The proposed investments in the construction elements
of Return:          yield economic returns (ERs) varying from 27 percent
to 54 percent. Wieighted average ER of all civil works
components which account for 99 percent of total project
cost is 31 percent. In the extreme case where the bene-
fits derived from all foreign vehicles are excluded, the
ER for each road section would still be above 20 percent.
Staff Project        Report No. 1803a-YU dated February 23, 1978
Report:             Highways and Aviation Division
Project Department, EMENA Region



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
REPUBLISKA SKUPNOST ZA CESTE S.R. SLOVENIJE
(Republic Community for Roads of the
Socialist Republic of Slovenia),
SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA
ZA CESTE S.R. HRVATSKE
(Self-Managing Community of Interest for Roads
of the Socialist Republic of Croatia),
REPUBLICKA SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE BEOGRAD
(Republican Self-Managing Community of Interest for Roads, Belgrade)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
4           SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
equivalent to US$80.0 million to the Republic Community for Roads of the
Socialist Republic of Slovenia, the Self-Managing Community of Interest for
Roads of the Socialist Republic of Croatia and the Republican Self-Managing
Community of Interest for Roads, Belgrade, with the guarantee of the Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, to finance the foreign exchange cost for a
Ninth Highway Project. The loan would bear interest at 7.45 percent per annum
and would have a term of 15 years including a grace period of 3 years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic mission visited Yugoslavia in November 1972; its
report entitled "The Economic Development of Yugoslavia" (194a-YU) was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on January 2, 1974. An economic mission
visited Yugoslavia in October 1975; its report entitled "Economic Memorandum--
Yugoslavia" (1086b-YU) was distributed to the Executive Directors on September
3, 1976. A Basic Economic Mission to review the Social Development Plan 1976-
80 and to assess the economic implications of the new institutional framework
emanating from the 1974 Constitution visited Yugoslavia in October and November
1976. Its draft report entitled, "Yugoslavia: Self-Management Socialism and
the Challenges of Development", was reviewed in the Bank and by the Government
and is presently being finalized. Some of the material gathered by the
Mission has been utilized for updating the information contained in the
subsequent paragraphs of this report. Basic data on the economy are given in
Annex I.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
3.        The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades
has been impressive, characterized by rapid growth accompanied by dynamic



- 2 -
structural and institutional changes. GDP grew in real terms (1972 prices)
at an average annual rate of about 7 percent and, given an average population
growth rate of one percent per year, real per capita income more than tripled.
In 1976, per capita GNP was estimated at $1,680 (World Bank Atlas Methodology).
The activity of the social sector, especially industry, was the driving force
of the economy and the share of industry in GDP increased from about 23 per-
cent in 1955 to about 32 percent in 1976, and paved the way for the develop-
ment of a modern industry/service oriented urban society.
4.        The population growth rate which averaged 1 percent per year during
the last two decades, however, varies considerably among the regions ranging
from an average rate of 1.6 percent for the less developed Republics and
Provinces (LDRs) to 0.7 percent for the developed ones (DRs). Structural
changes in the economy have permitted a sizeable transfer of the labor force
from agriculture to industry and services. Despite this, by 1975, 39 percent
of the employed resident labor force was still engaged in agriculture and
forestry, mostly on small private farms; industry (including mining) accounted
for 24 percent, and other sectors for 37 percent.
5.        The socio-political framework evolved through several constitu-
tional amendments which were consolidated in the new Constitution of 1974.
It strengthens three important features of the socio-political system of
Yugoslavia. First, self-management, whereby the use and control of the
socially owned means of production are entrusted to the workers' collectives,
is the fundamental right and obligation of every-Basic Organization of
Associated Labor (BOAL--the smallest identifiable unit of production which
produces a marketable output) in every sector and activity. Second, the
responsibility for most important social and policy decisions is shifted from
the Federation down to the Republics and Provinces, and on to the communes.
And third, the management and financial responsibility for social activities
(health, education, welfare, etc.) is transferred from the realm of the state
to Communities of Interest (decision-making bodies which comprise delegates
of both suppliers and users of the specific services). Responsibility for
certain economic activities affecting large segments of the society (like
communal services, power production, highways and water management) is pro-
gressively similarly organized through Communities of Interest.
6.        The social sector, which includes government, enterprises and public
institutions such as libraries, hospitals, theatres and schools, has the lead-
ing role in economic and social development. It accounts for 85 percent of
GDP and employs over half of the total labor force. The private sector is
comprised predominantly of peasant farms (generally with a 10 hectare limit to
land holdings) and small enterprises (generally with a 5-person limit on the
number of nonfamily workers), mainly in handicrafts, construction, trade,
transport and tourism. In the past, the private sector had been relatively
neglected by government policy. However, lately increased attention is being
devoted to private farmers with a view to accelerating the growth of agricul-
tural production and reducing the rural/urban income disparity. New legisla-
tion has also been enacted to promote private business through the pooling of
resources in joint ventures with social sector enterprises or among private
small scale industrial, transport, trade or other entities. These measures



aim to encourage private sector productive investment and employment, by
circumventing the 5 employee limitation, and to absorb the returning migrant
workers and mobilize their savings.
7.        Regional income disparity--with a gradient of per capita income
falling generally from North to South--is one of the most important develop-
ment issues facing the country. Four regions can be distinguished by stage of
development. The Republic of Slovenia is the high per capita income region
with incomes almost double the national average. The Republics of Serbia
and Croatia and the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina make up the middle income
regions, with incomes ranging from 100 to 125 percent of the national average.
However, even within these regions there are pockets of underdevelopment,
which basically coincide with private sector agriculture. The Republics of
Bosnia-Herzegovina, Montenegro and Macedonia, with per capita incomes about
two-thirds of the national average, constitute the upper group among the
officially designated less developed regions. The Socialist Autonomous
Province of Kosovo (Kosovo), with an average per capita income of only 30
percent of the national average (about US$500.0 equivalent for 1976), is the
least developed region. These inter-regional disparities can be traced back
further to intra-regional disparities. Within Republics and Provinces the per
capita income spread between communes can extend over the range of 10 to 1,
and it is the prevalence of stagnating poor rural communes within the LDRs
which largely determines the disparity between the regions. The rate of
economic growth of the LDRs as a whole was only slightly below the average for
yugoslavia, but due to the faster population growth (1.6 percent per year
versus 0.7 percent in the DRs) the income disparity had until recently tended
to widen. In order to reverse the trend and to accelerate economic growth and
social development in the LDRs, mechanisms were instituted for sizeable
transfers of financial resources, initially on a non-returnable basis. Since
1971, net credits on highly favorable terms (containing a grant element of
around 50 percent) were made available to the LDRs through the Federal Fund
for the Accelerated Development of Less Developed Regions, equivalent to about
20 percent of their total investment in the social sector. These transfers
amounted to about US$430 million equivalent in 1976 in addition to about
US$250 million equivalent being transferred as budgetary grants for social
services. The mechanism for both categories assures a growth of transfers in
line with the growth in GDP.
8.        The rate of open unemployment to the total resident labor force
amounts to about 5 percent but understates the magnitude of the employment
generation problem because of the existence of large reserves of rural under-
employed and the need to employ returning migrant workers. The rate of regis-
tered 1/ unemployment to social sector employment averaging about 11.9 percent
for the country as a whole in 1976 is perhaps a better measure. A rapid
growth of the social sector which provides more productive employment is,
therefore, imperative if the natural increase of the labor force, in addition
1/   In Yugoslav definition, unemployment is measured in terms of registered
job seekers actually unemployed as well as those employed but seeking new
jobs.



- 4 -
to the returning migrants, is to be absorbed and the ranks of the unemployed
reduced. This problem takes on added urgency as the incidence of unemploy-
ment 1/ is highly regionalized ranging from 25.4 percent at one extreme in
Kosovo to 1.5 percent in Slovenia.
Recent Developments
9.        In 1975, the growth rate of the economy receded to 4.5 percent, fol-
lowing the rapid increase of GDP of 9 percent in the previous year. This was
due mainly to the combined effects of a restrictive monetary policy, stagnat-
ing exports and a reduced growth of personal incomes and leveling consump-
tion; economic investment and housing construction provided the major growth
stimulus during 1975. The inflationary pressure, which built up during 1974
and extended into 1975, receded drastically in the second half of the year;
the rate of increase of industrial producer prices decreased from 30 percent
for 1974 to 22 percent in 1975, and the index of real personal receipts stag-
nated for the whole of the year.   The good harvest in 1974 had a favorable
impact on the balance of payments, although meat exports were severely
affected by the European Community ban on meat imports. Exports to oil
producing countries and to the non-convertible currency area continued to
expand rapidly in 1975, but were insufficient to compensate for the sharp
decline in exports to the convertible currency area. As a result, commodity
exports declined by 2 percent in real terms. Workers remittances and
receipts from tourism increased marginally. However, a larger contraction
of imports and an improvement in the terms of trade led to some decline in the
current account deficit to $1.0 billion as compared to $1.2 billion in 1974.
10.       Further reduction of the balance of payments deficit and of the
inflationary pressures in the economy were the major objectives of economic
policy during 1976. As compared to a nominal increase of 22 percent in 1975,
GDP grew by 14 percent in nominal and 4 percent in real terms in 1976. Fol-
lowing a near stagnation of industrial production (and economic activity in
general) in the first half of the year--as a result of the implementation
of new legislation enforcing greater financial discipline on enterprises--
industrial growth picked up in the second half of the year and recorded a rise
of about 4 percent. The combination of the economic slack and price policy
resulted in a cutback in the rise of producer prices and the cost of living to
less than 10 percent, i.e. less than half the previous year's increases.
Favorable results were also realized in the field of foreign trade. The
marked deceleration of inflation, the slackening of domestic demand and the
revival of Western European demand, as well as foreign trade policy, resulted
in a 20 percent growth of merchandise exports and about 4 percent decline of
imports in nominal terms. The reduced balance of trade deficit was also
aided by the inflow on account of invisibles, resulting in a $150 million
balance of payments surplus for the year. Foreign exchange reserves also
reached a record of over $2.0 billion. Social sector employment grew by
3.7 percent and allowed the absorption of some returning migrant workers yet,
with the realized GDP growth rate, this meant a virtual stagnation of average
workers' productivity for the year.
1/   Ratio of registered unemployment to social sector employment.



Estimates for 1977 and Prospects for 1978
11.       Although initial projections for 1977 envisaged a moderate GDP growth
rate of about 5.5 percent and a balance of payments deficit of some $500 mil-
lion, estimates for the year indicate both a higher economic growth rate and
balance of payments deficit than expected. The pick-up of economic activity
which started in the second half of 1976 continued into 1977 with industrial
production growing at a rate of about 10 percent in the first half of the year.
The large monetary expansion in 1976 also enabled the expansion of investment
and other components of domestic demand and resulted in a somewhat higher
inflation rate than anticipated (cost of living rise of 13-15 percent). For
the year as a whole, GDP is estimated to have risen by almost 7 percent with
industry growing by 8 percent and agriculture by 4 percent. Employment is
estimated to have grown by about 3.5 percent and average workers' productivity
at an almost equal rate. The most significant deviation, however, occurred in
the foreign trade sector. As a result of the slow growth of exports and the
fast growing imports connected with expanding industrial production, which was
not compensated for by the growth of invisibles including workers' remittances,
the balance of payments deficit for 1977 is expected to amount to $1.3 billion
matching that for 1974. The country was able to contract the necessary for-
eign financing in 1977, however, maintaining its external reserves at about
the previous year's level. The program for 1978 envisages the stabilization
of the economic growth rate of 6-7 percent, a reduction of the inflation rate
and a major consolidation of the foreign trade sector to improve the balance
of payments position.
Medium- and Long-Term Objectives and Prospects
12.       The surfacing of major economic problems during 1974, such as high
international inflation and balance of payments pressures, led to a reappraisal
of development objectives. More emphasis was to be given to the development
of Yugoslavia's own natural resources, with the development of the energy
sector as the highest priority. The focus is on electric power, where the
generating capacity is falling critically short of the rapidly rising power
requirements of the expanding economy. The development of the power sector
will be based primarily on the largely unutilized hydropower potential and
soft-coal reserves of the country. Other priority activities are ferrous
metallurgy, some segments of non-ferrous metallurgy (notably lead, zinc,
copper, nickel and bauxite/aluminum), technologically advanced production
equipment, basic chemicals including petroleum refining, agriculture and food
processing, interrepublic transportation, multipurpose works, and housing and
basic construction material.
13.       This emphasis on accelerated development of the raw material basis
and of the economic infrastructure requires a more capital-intensive invest-
ment pattern, associated with longer time lags between investment and out-
put. To sustain this development path, both continued high borrowing abroad
and an increased savings rate will be essential. Since, with the possible
exception of private savings, interest rates have not been given a signifi-
cant role to play in the determination of the level of aggregate savings, the



-6
income policy--i.e. the guidelines governing the distribution of enterprise
income between workers  income and accumulation--will have to play a crucial
role.
14.       The new Five Year Plan (1976-80) focuses on the implementation of
these objectives. For GDP growth, an average rate of 7 percent per year is
proposed, compared with a target growth rate of the previous Plan of 7.5 per-
cent and a realized growth rate of 6.5 percent. For employment, the average
planned growth rate would come to about 3 percent with annual increments
exceeding the natural increase of the labor force by growing margins. This
would permit more vigorous pursuit of two major social objectives: the reduc-
tion of the number of temporary migrants abroad (estimated at about 900,000 in
1975), and an increased absorption of the rural underemployed into the social
sector, which is likely to have significant impact only in the DRs. The
economy will continue to be open to the world market, although the composition
of foreign trade is expected to change with a reduced share for raw material
and semi-finished products on the import side, and an increased share for
agricultural products and manufactured goods on the export side. Workers'
remittances are not expected to increase in real terms, but rising tourism
receipts and construction work abroad are expected to compensate for the
expected declining importance of workers' remittances.
15.       The reduction of regional disparities is another priority objective
of the new Five Year Plan. To that end, the mechanisms for the transfer of
financial resources to the LDRs in the form of loans at concessionary terms
for economic investment and of budgetary grants for social development will be
continued, with some marginal increase in contributions as a proportion of
GDP. Since most of the natural resources of the country, including hydro-
power, are to be found in the LDRs, these regions will also benefit from the
increased emphasis on the development of power and basic industries which will
be financed jointly through direct financial contributions from the consuming
regions.
16.       The new Five Year Plan was prepared according to the self-management
principle stipulated in the Constitution of 1974. Self-management planning is
perceived as an iterative process of sequential, converging consensus-finding.
In the initial stage, broad priorities (as to sectors and activities) and
general quantitative targets and constraints (like growth rates of social
product and the volume of savings and investment) are determined on the basis
of consensus by the Assemblies of the socio-political communities (Govern-
ments at the Communal, Republican and Provincial, and Federal levels). Sub-
sequently, the planning process starts at the bottom with individual enter-
prises and Communities of Interest setting out expectations and targets. The
planning process then proceeds through successive and partially overlapping
stages of horizontal adjustments within sectors and branches (aimed primarily
at eliminating gross duplications), vertical adjustments between closely inter-
dependent sectors and branches (aimed at determining realistic orders of
magnitudes of production, conceptually within an input/output framework), and
regional adjustments between Republics and Provinces (aimed at both horizontal
and vertical consolidation). The socio-political communities participate in



-7-
this process by ensuring observance of the broad priorities, targets and con-
straints, and by resolving conflicts which cannot be resolved by the direct
participants. The evolving consolidated programs of action, which in their
totality constitute the operational portion of the Plan, are codified in the
form of "Social Compacts" 1/ or "Self-Management Agreements" 2/ which are
legally binding for the whole Plan period unless renegotiated in the case of
major deviations occurring in the course of Plan implementation. The new Plan
differs from the previous one in strengthening and formalizing the commitments
for implementation by enterprises, banks and government institutions.
Creditworthiness
17.       In spite of the recent balance of payments problems, the prospects
for Yugoslavia's continued economic growth during the next decade are good.
The country's endowment of natural and human resources, its relatively low
dependence on imported primary energy, its pragmatic approach to economic
problems and its readiness to undertake institutional changes, combine to
give grounds for a favorable assessment of future prospects. Yugoslavia will
need to continue to raise foreign capital on a fairly large scale, mostly
from established channels such as the Euro-currency market, suppliers' credits
and the World Bank. In addition, greater use may be made of credit lines from
COMECON countries and the European Community, and efforts are being intensi-
fied to open up new sources of capital in OPEC countries. The debt service
ratio is estimated to have risen in 1976 (around 18 percent), but it is
expected to level at about 17 percent in 1977 and subsequent years. Taking
into account Yugoslavia's debt service record and the measures taken in the
past to control balance of payments problems, as well as the prospective
growth of production and structural improvement of the balance of trade,
Yugoslavia remains creditworthy for a substantial amount of Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
18.       The Bank has made 45 loans to Yugoslavia totalling about US$1,628
million. Of this amount, approximately 42 percent (US$676.4 million) has been
for 15 loans for the transportation sector--8 for highways, 4 for railways,
and one each for a natural gas pipeline, an oil pipeline, and a port project.
Bank lending has generally concentrated on infrastructure including, in addi-
tion to the transportation loans, four power loans, one telecommunications
1/   "Social Compacts" (also referred to as Social Agreements) regulate broader
economic issues or policies and are concluded among Socio-Political
Communities and also involving Economic Chambers and Associations of
Enterprises and Trade Unions.
2/   "Self-Management Agreements" are more specific and regulate most rela-
tions, rights and obligations within, among and between economic organ-
izations like BOALs, enterprises and banks.



- 8 -
loan, two water supply and sewerage and five multipurpose loans. Five loans
totalling US$206 million (about 13 percent of the total amount lent to
Yugoslavia) have been made for agriculture and agro-industries. Ten loans
amounting to US$200 million (about 12 percent of the total) have also been
made for industry and two for tourism amounting to US$30 million. The $27
million first Bank loan for air pollution control was approved May 25, 1976.
In addition, IFC has made investments in eleven Yugoslav enterprises totalling
about US$154 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and
IFC investments as of January 31, 1978 and notes on the execution of on-going
projects.
19.       The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued in its lend-
ing to Yugoslavia remain essentially unchanged. These objectives are:
(a) to support Yugoslav efforts to address the critical issues
of regional disparities and unemployment;
(b) to promote agricultural development in both the individual
farmer and social sectors by providing basic infrastructure
and credit facilities;
(c) to encourage structural reforms in the major sectors through
improved coordination, institution-building and technical
assistance;
(d) to help in identifying and financing gaps in basic infra-
structure-particularly transport and energy; and
(e) to alleviate critical shortages of convertible foreign
exchange by providing part of the required long-term capital,
encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to tap other
sources of medium- and long-term capital, and supporting
projects which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
It is obvious that each and every Bank operation cannot address all these
objectives nor be entirely oriented towards the welfare of the LDRs (less
developed regions), but the basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia
has increasingly been towards the development of the LDRs and the agricultural
sector in particular.
20.       The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of the
LDRs is fully in accord with the Federal Government's avowed policy to narrow
the gap between the richest and the poorest regions.- The new development Plan
assigns even higher priority to redressing such disparity, and to that end the
Federal Government has now obtained consensus of its constituents, not only on
the channeling of domestic resources to the LDRs through the Federal Fund
mechanism (see para 7 of this Report) but also on the distribution of external
resources including Bank lending. The Bank has actively cooperated with the
Government in evolving a distribution pattern for Bank lending which gives
weight to the income levels and population size of particular regions and has



- 9 -
on this basis over the last three years effectively directed more than two-
thirds of its lending to the LDRs. While the Bank's ability to achieve such a
distribution is clearly influenced by the ability of the regions to generate
viable projects, recent experience in bringing forward well designed and eco-
nomically sound projects for the LDRs is cause for confidence in our ability
to maintain the level of Bank activity in the LDRs, though there will undoubt-
edly be year-to-year fluctuations.
21.       In recognition of the fact that such an expanded investment program
for the LDRs would need to be preceded by a systematic survey of these regions
to take stock of development potential and identify constraints, the Bank
undertook and completed economic surveys of the four LDRs (Kosovo, Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro). These regional surveys, coupled with
intensified Bank assistance in project formulation and ongoing economic and
sector analysis, reinforce the impact of the Bank's participation in the
development of these regions.
22.       Over the past several years, more than two-thirds of our lending,
as noted in paragraph 20 above, has been to the LDRs. Operations, such as an
upcoming proposed third industrial credit project, as well as operations
envisaged for LDRs over the next two years, including loans for irrigation,
water supply and sewerage and multipurpose water resource and agriculural
development, emphasize our continuing orientation to the needs of the LDRs.
The proposed loan for a Ninth Highway Project and another proposed loan for
a Fifth Railway Project as well as the Second Power Transmission Project
approved in 1977, will both assist the LDRs and promote structural reforms in
the transport and energy sectors. IFC is currently investigating several new
investment opportunities to encourage joint ventures which would provide
technical, management and marketing expertise as well as long-term capital.
23.       The Bank helped formulate the 1973 "Green Plan", a comprehensive
framework for agricultural development, which recognized the need to encourage
the role of the individual, low-income sector (which holds almost 85 percent
of the cultivated land and employs over 90 percent of the farm population).
As a follow-up, the 1976 "Green Plan" calls for even greater attention to
agriculture and clearly recognizes that the impetus for accelerated growth
must necessarily be derived from the underexploited resources of the indi-
vidual farming sector. It is now generally appreciated that the individual
farmer sector can generate significant increases in production if provided
with sufficient support in terms of extension services, credit for inputs and
basic infrastructural facilities. The loans for the Ibar Multipurpose Project
(Loan No. 777-YU) and the Metohija Multipurpose Project (Loan No. 1360-YU) in
Kosovo, the first and second Agro-Industries Projects (Loan Nos. 894-YU and
1371-YU) in Macedonia, and the first and second Agricultural Credit Projects
(Loan Nos. 1129-YU and 1477-YU, respectively), have given special attention
to the needs of the individual farmer sector.
24.       The agricultural sector deserves attention for a number of develop-
mental considerations. It is the obvious vehicle for addressing the problems



- 10 -
ut rural poverty which underlies regional disparity; it can provide opportuni-
ties for productively employing the rural population, thus reducing the pres-
sure for creating non-agricultural employment; and it contributes to reducing
reliance on imports and improvina the prospects for exports of food and other
agricultural products. Forthcoming projects for irrigation and rural develop-
ment will support agriculture development in general and in particular, the
individual farmer sector.
25.       Decentralized management, which is the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's
socio-economic philosopohy, adds to the inherent difficulties involved in for-
mulating coherent sector plans. One of the principal features of the 1974
constitutional changes and subsequent legislation, however, has been to revamp
the institutional framework and to introduce mechanisms for coordination. The
new system of self-management planning requires that the programs of all enter-
prises are discussed, negotiated and reflected in legally binding agreements.
In order to support these efforts for improved coordination, the Bank intends
to pursue vigorously the initiatives it has sponsored in terms of establishing
the basis for evolving coherent sector policies.
26.       Given the complexity of the Yugoslav system, which requires reaching
a consensus of all parties affected by any substantive decision, the process
of dealing with problems and of evolving acceptable solutions is cumbersome.
But the Bank sees it important to continue exerting its influence in shaping
the policy framework and having further beneficial impact on fostering coordi-
nation, particularly in the power and transport sectors where significant
progress has already been achieved. For instance, the Eighth Highway Project
(Loan No. 1377-YU) approved March 15, 1977, provides for studies of road-user
charges and railway costs which the Government and we believe essential for
developing intermodal coordination and devising a policy framework for the
transport sector. The Second Power Transmission Project (Loan No. 1469-YU
approved June 28, 1977), an extension of the interconnected transmission
system, partly financed by the Bank in 1972 (Loan No. 836-YU), will enable the
supply of power throughout the country and thereby encourage power exchange
coordination among all republics/provinces. The promise of further progress
in the coming years is reassuring and additional improvements in sector coor-
dination and policy are foreseen in conjunction with upcoming projects.
27.       A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and ability to address the
critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. While the Yugoslavs
are making concerted efforts to open up and enlarge access to Western finan-
cial markets and institutions (including the European Investment Bank), there
is no concrete evidence of substantial additional inflows. The Bank, there-
fore, remains a major source of long-term external capital for the foreseeable
future, and its significant level of operations in Yugoslavia not only consti-
tutes the largest source of long-term external capital but, equally important,
is regarded by international financing institutions as evidence of inter-
national confidence in Yugoslavia's economic performance, policies and
prospects. In financing of infrastructure as well as industrial and agro-
industrial projects, we continue to devote particular attention to possibili-
ties for attracting co-financing. In our support of projects in the directly



- 11 -
productive sectors, we have and will continue to devote attention to those
which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
28.       Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank amounts to about one-fifth of its
total public debt, outstanding and disbursed. The outstanding debt to the
Bank is, however, expected to decline gradually from its current level to
about 10 percent of Yugoslavia's total external debt. Service on Bank loans
as a proportion of total debt service was 4 percent in 1976 and is projected
to increase to about 5 percent by 1980.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   The Transport System
29.       The transport system in Yugoslavia was historically shaped by topo-
graphy and the rate of development of the various Republics and Provinces.
The main routes of communication ran Northwest to Southeast, along the Sava-
Danube Valley, serving the rich agricultural areas and providing access to
the Balkan countries to the North and East. The mountains, however, remained
a barrier to easy access to the Adriatic Coast which has been the traditional
sea access for several central European countries.
30.       Following  the considerable reconstruction required to repair. the
ravages of World War II, Yugoslavia has engaged in a major development program
in the transport sector oriented towards opening up the less developed regions
to strengthen their integration with the rest of the country, improving com-
munication with Western Europe and encouraging the development of international
tourism.
31.       Today, Yugoslavia's transportation system is extensive and diversi-
fied, comprising about 10,000 km of railways, 100,000 km of roads, seven main
ports and 15 airports (ten of which handle international flights) and a size-
able network of inland and coastal waterways (the main one being the Danube).
Pipelines have come into increasing use in recent years. Yugoslavia borders
seven countries and has extensive access to the Adriatic; it is thus an
important crossroads for European traffic, including considerably increased
traffic to the Middle East.
32.       Yugoslavia's economy has grown rapidly since World War II with per
capita income rising in real terms at about 6 percent yearly during the last
decade to reach US$1,680 in 1976. Increasing economic activity and personal
incomes (combined with continued diversification of the economy) have led
to a fairly rapid growth in transport demand; between 1965 and 1975 freight
and passenger traffic for all modes of transport grew at about 6.5 percent
and 12.5 percent yearly.
33.       The growth of traffic by different modes has been rather uneven.
Between 1965 and 1975 the freight traffic (ton-km) on railways increased by
about 2 percent per annum compared to 13 percent on highways, while passenger
traffic on railways declined by about *2 percent per annum, and increased by



- 12 -
29 percent per annum on highways. The development of highway traffic is also
demonstrated by the increase in the motor vehicle fleet and modernization
of the highway network. As a result, road transport has replaced rail trans-
port as the dominant carrier. The railways, however, continue to be the main
carrier of bulk materials important for key industries, and carry about 40 per-
cent of total freight. The railways share of public passenger transport is
24 percent. River transport has retained an important and competitive place,
carrying about 10 percent of total freight traffic. The ports have almost
doubled their cargo handling since the early 1960s and currently move about 20
million tons per annum.
34.       During the early 1960s transport facilities developed more slowly
than other sectors in the economy and accounted for only about 10-11 percent
of total investment, one of the lowest in Europe. The position has improved,
and transport has accounted for about 16-18 percent of the total investments
since 1970, but in view of the considerable gaps in the transport infrastruc-
ture, the resources devoted to the sector appear to have been insufficient
and much remains to be done. For example, many roads are still below standard
for the traffic they carry, needing improvements to handle traffic efficiently
and economically, and modernization of railways is also a pressing need.
Concerning the latter, Government support measures should be paralleled by
improved utilization of railway capacity and continued extensive marketing and
promotional efforts. Also, the capacity of some ports needs to be increased.
B.   Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
35.       Since the mid-1960s, the Yugoslav system has been increasingly
characterized by decentralization of decision-making with enterprises operat-
ing under workers' self-management in a market-oriented economy. Principal
governmental responsibility for transport was transferred during the late
1960s from Federal to Republican and Provincial authorities. The Federal
Secretariat for Transport was replaced in 1975 by a Federal Committee, whose
Chairman and Vice Chairman are Federal officials, and other members are the
Republican and Provincial officials responsible for transport. This committee
has a largely coordinating function. MIuch of governmental responsibility is
now being transferred to Communities of Interest (COIs), which consist of one
or more transport enterprises and their users; normally, a COI covers only one
Republic or Province. Transport enterprises, including the railways, are
generally constituted as associations of Basic Organizations of Associated
Labor (BOALs), each consisting typically of a few hundred workers. The BOALs
are the prime sources of authority in the enterprise, and enjoy a large
measure of autonomy.
36.       The extension of autonomy to the "grass roots" agencies and trans-
port organizations has increased the number of decision-making bodies, and
made the country-wide transport planning and coordination within and between
modes (especially between road and rail) more difficult. Until recently
there has not existed an overall, clearly stated transport policy, although
the basic rationale for such a policy has been implicit in the country's main
economic principles: free choice by users and competition in a market economy
among autonomous transport enterprises. In late 1976, however, with a view



- 13 -
to creating the necessary conditions for integrated development of transport,
the Federation, the Republics and the Autonomous Provinces mutually agreed to
establish a long-term transport policy for the country. Considerable progress
has been made in this direction, and the authorities are concluding Social
Agreements on the various aspects of future transport policy. Much of the
success in translating the transport policy into a concrete action program
will depend on the decentralized decision-making process.
37.       The Yugoslav authorities are also acutely aware of the need for a
satisfactory institutional framework within which various transport agencies
and enterprises can collaborate effectively. The Bank has contributed to
institution-building policies resulting in:
(i) the establishment of the Federal Committee (originally a
Secretariat) for Transport and Communications;
(ii) the establishment of the Secretariats or Committees for
Transport in most Republics and Provinces;
(iii) the establishment of the Council of Republican and Provincial
Road Organizations (CRO); and
(iv) strengthening the Community of Yugoslav Railways (CYR).
38.       Further improvements are still needed and for this purpose, a Social
Agreement on Transport Policy has been signed, setting out the general objec-
tives of Yugoslav transport policy, indicating measures to be taken to achieve
them and delineating more clearly the responsibilities of the Federal,
Republican and Provincial Governments and the COIs in the transport sector.
Objectives include the setting up of an optimal structure for the transport
system by harmonizing the development of the various transport modes, the
lowering of the share of transportation costs in the total costs of the
economy, and the rationalization of energy use and the reduction of energy
imports. The use of rail and water transport is to be encouraged for long-
and medium- distance commodity hauls and of road transport for short hauls.
The development of integrated transport facilities is also to be encouraged.
Emphasis is placed on the development of the public transportation sector as
compared to transport on own account. Regulations regarding permitted speeds,
axle loadings and capacities for highways generally are also to be re-examined.
The basic principle of the transport policy will continue to be free competi-
tion on the market and the main policy instruments will be pricing measures
and the imposition of minimum safety and environmental standards. For this
reason, and to promote transport coordination more effectively, the need is
becoming increasingly pressing for studies on road user charges and on railway
costs to ascertain and eventually eliminate, overt and hidden subsidies or
cross-subsidies. Such studies of road user charges and a corresponding study
of rail costs were in fact included as a component of the Eighth Highway
Project (Loan 1377-YU of April 13, 1977); likely completion dates for these
studies are end-1978 and mid-1979 respectively.



- 14 -
C.   The Highway Sub-sector
39.       Prior to 1955, the development of road transport was rather limited
under a Government policy which accorded priority to the railways. Since then,
the Government's policy has been aimed towards creating economic conditions
equally favorable for the development of all transport modes, and hence road
transport has expanded rapidly. The vehicle fleet has grown from about 125,000
in 1958 to about 1,944,000 in 1975. Between 1965 and 1975 the registration of
passenger cars increased eightfold, and the number of trucks and buses more
than doubled.
40.       The accelerated development of the paved network began in the early
1960's, at which time only about 9,000 km of paved roads were open to traffic.
Of the about 100,000 km of roads which existed at the beginning of 1976, about
38,700 km were paved. Nevertheless, despite its rapid development, the density
of the paved network remains inadequate to meet the needs of ever increasing
traffic. Large sections of the main highway arteries are heavily congested
and are in need of upgrading to provide greater capacity. This is particu-
larly the case with the Trans-Yugoslav Highway (TYH)--spanning Yugoslavia
from its Italian and Austrian borders in the northwest to its Bulgarian and
Greek borders in the southeast--which, in addition to being the backbone of
Yugoslavia's transport network, is the shortest route linking Europe with the
Near and Middle East.
41.       Although highway expenditures for investment and maintenance have
increased steadily over the last decade, they have not been sufficient in view
of the rapid expansion and modernization of the economy, and inflation has
eroded a substantial portion of the increased outlay.   Highway expenditures
for new construction and upgrading increased from about US$150 million per
annum during 1966-70, to an average of about US$290 million per annum under
the 1971-75 Five-Year Plan, accounting for about 75 percent of total highway
expenditures. The remaining 25 percent of highway expenditures was for high-
way maintenance which has been consistently satisfactory.
42.       The Federal Government's role in highway financing from the Federal
Budget has been phasing out since 1970, when it was decided that the Federa-
tion's participation should essentially be limited to obligations under
previous commitments. In 1975, the Federal Government's remaining contribu-
tion to all types of highway financing was only about 2 percent of the total
expenditure. The main source for highway financing is derived from the ear-
marked portion of the revenues from taxes on gasoline, diesel oil and license
fees collected by the regional and communal authorities as well as the revenues
from taxes paid by foreign motorists on entering Yugoslavia which are collected
by the Federation. The total revenue from these taxes on gasoline, oil and
license fees as well as taxes paid by foreign motor vehicles yielded about
US$360 million equivalent in 1975. Coincidentally, the total expenditure on
roads in 1975 was almost equal to the total revenue derived from road transport
in that year. However, only about 40 percent of this total revenue was ear-
marked in 1975 for highway improvement and maintenance which covered about 40
percent of the expenditure on roads. The remaining 60 percent was financed by
external and domestic loans (24 percent), the Fund for Less Developed Regions



- 15 -
(4 percent), contributions by the Federal Government (2 percent) and contribu-
tions from other sources, including voluntary contributions of enterprises and
citizens (30 percent).
Organization and Administration
43.       In keeping with the overall decentralization of the transport sec-
tor, administration of the highway sub-sector in Yugoslavia is concentrated
in the Republics and Provinces. The Federal Government's role is restricted
to general policy and regulatory matters such as regulations on vehicle
dimensions, axle loading and road safety aspects and the international aspects
of highway administration and road transport.
44.       At the Republican and Provincial levels, responsibility for highway
administration lies with the Republican or Provincial road organizations.
These organizations are governed by "Boards" comprising relatively large
numbers of members of various interest groups such as transport companies,
industrial enterprises, agricultural cooperatives, and professional and road-
user organizations. The members elect an "Executive Board" which is respon-
sible for day-to-day administration and preparation of highway proposals,
which are coordinated through the planning system with the plans of other
sectors and need the approval of Republican or Provincial Governments. Purely
local roads are under the jurisdiction of the local communities which have
special departments. In cities, planning authorities are giving increasing
attention to urban transport impact with a view to rationalizing the use of
transport facilities. Coordination among the Republican or Provincial road
organizations is provided through the Provincial/Republican Assemblies, the
Federal Committee for Transport and Communications and the Council of
Republican and Provincial Road Organizations (CRO).
Performance Under Past Highway Projects
45.       Out of the eight highway projects for which the Bank has provided
financing, five have been successfully completed, and the remaining projects
are all well in hand. Project Performance Audit Reports on the Third and
Fourth Highway Projects (Reports Nos. 1385 of December 10, 1976 and 1632 of
June 15, 1977, respectively) emphasize that the projects have been success-
fully completed with most civil works carried out close to appraisal schedule.
The Third Highway audit report stresses the need, however, to ensure that
tolls imposed do not reduce the optimal use of tolled facilities; this point
has been taken into account in all subsequent projects (see para 57, this
Report). Regarding the Fifth Highway Project (Loan No. 751-YU of June 18,
1971), all road sections are open to traffic. For the Sixth Highway Project
(Loan No. 990-YU of May 31, 1974), for which requests for changes in road
alignments were agreed in order to provide better service to two communities,
all road sections are open to traffic. Procurement of engineering and labo-
ratory equipment has been contracted and payments are now being finalized.
Progress regarding the overseas training program under the Fifth and Sixth
Highway Projects has been slow owing largely to language difficulties encoun-
tered (insufficient candidates proficient in English). Consequently, a train-
ing program is now being arranged in Yugoslavia and in collaboration with EDI



- 16 -
staff which can be undertaken in both English and Serbo-Croatian. The program
should be completed by the end of this year. Regarding the Seventh Highway
Project (Loan No. 1143-YU of July 18, 1975), work is in progress on all the
project roads of Serbia, Slovenia and Montenegro, but in the case of Slovenia,
progress has been slow due to difficulties presented by swampy terrain.
Finally, concerning the Eighth Highway Project (Loan No. 1377-YU of April 13,
1977), work on the Bosnian and Serbian roads and on a portion of the road in
Kosovo has already begun; the contract for the road in Macedonia and for a
portion of the road in Kosovo remain to be awarded. In general, performance
under highway projects has been extremely satisfactory; problems, when encoun-
tered, have related to land acquisition where unforeseen difficulties have
delayed construction, such as was the case under the Fourth Highway Project
(Loan No. 678-YU of May 28, 1970). Cost overruns resulting from exchange rate
adjustments and higher than anticipated inflation have not been excessive
(between 8 and 12 percent).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.       The proposed project, which is summarized in the Loan and Project
Summary at the beginning of this Report and described in detail in the report
"Staff Appraisal of a Ninth Highway Project" number 1803a-YU dated February 23,
1978, was appraised by a mission which visited Yugoslavia in September 1977.
Negotiations were held in Washington during January 23-27, 1978. The Yugoslav
delegati-on was led by Mrs. Keti Comovska, Assistant President of the Federal
Committee for Transport and Communications, and included representatives of
the three borrowing road organizations. Annex III summarizes the key events
leading to Board presentation, special Bank actions needed for project imple-
mentation and the special conditions provided for in the Loan Agreement.
Prolect Development and Objectives
47.       The 1200 km Trans-Yugoslav Highway (TYH) is the country's principal
transport artery essential to the economic life of each and every constituent
Republic and Province. From this purely national standpoint, economic activ-
ity in the influence area of the TYH corridor generates about 35 percent of
Yugoslavia's GDP, a compelling factor in appraising the importance of this
route. Looked at from a broader viewpoint, the TYH is also a vital link in
the highway network connecting Western and Central European countries with
Southeastern Europe and the Middle East (Map IBRD 12416). The growth of trade
between these regions during the recent years and the relative speed, con-
venience and economy of the overland route has significantly expanded inter-
national truck traffic. Presently, about 100,000 trucks and truck trailers
operate annually on TYR and carry more than a million tons of international
freight traffic.
48.       The -TYH, which was designed and built as an international "self-
help" project shortly after World War II (then called the "Brotherhood and
Unity" road) is now near the end of its economic life. At present, high
traffic volumes (10,000-12,000 vehicles per day), often comprising more than



30 percent heavy trucks, are clogging sections of this mainly two-lane road.
In recognition of the seriousness of the mounting congestion problems, the
losses to the economy from the heavy accident toll on life and property and
the increasing problems of maintaining the road under heavy traffic, the
Government, early in 1976, approached the Bank for assistance in preparing
a national program for the development of this vital route. A main purpose
in soliciting Bank assistance was to expedite the creation of an integrated
master plan which could also provide a coherent basis for seeking external
financing from other multilateral, bilateral and private international sources.
At the Bank's instigation, the Council of Road Organizations (CRO) commissioned
a prefeasibility study of the whole route to determine such a program and an
action plan for its implementation. This study, which in itself is a feat of
interrepublican cooperation and coordination, confirms the urgent attention
required for the reconstruction of the present pavement of a large number of
sections of the TYH to modern standards. It further ranks the various sec-
tions by priority derived from an economic analysis.
49.       Though there are in the highway sector other pressing needs requir-
ing investment, the importance of TYH to Yugoslavia as a whole is so great,
the economic dependency of each Republic and Province upon this main highway
artery so fundamental, that this proposed project deliberately focusses solely
on the needs of this primary route. Future projects, preparation of which are
already well advanced, are designed to cater to the specific needs of the less
developed regions, for primary as well as secondary and tertiary roads to be
identified on the basis of a highway master plan for each of these regions.
The preparation of such a plan for Kosovo, the least developed region of the
country, is in fact being financed under the Eighth Highway Project (Loan No.
1377-YU of April 13, 1977). We also expect to support in future years further
development of high priority sections of TYH.
50.       The Bank's role in developing the concept of TYH as an integrated
project (about US$3 billion estimated total cost) and providing the needed
lead in its financing under the proposed project is considered by the Yugoslavs
as catalytic for obtaining recognition, support and financial assistance from
other agencies, both multilateral and bilateral, and private international
financing institutions. In fact the Yugoslav authorities, based on the Bank's
involvement in the preparation and appraisal of the project, have already made
significant progress towards identifying financing for the high priority TYH
sections (other than those included under the proposed project). Recently,
EIB has confirmed its agreement in principle with Yugoslavia to provide 20
million units of account for TYH. In addition, the principal banks, in each
region of Yugoslavia through which this highway passes, have formed a con-
sortium which, with the help of investment banking expertise as well as
support from EIB and on the basis of the Bank's overall appraisal of TYH,
plans to enter the international capital market to raise additional financing
for TYH. Although the specific nature of such borrowing as well as the timing
have yet to be determined, investment bankers have confirmed that the Bank's
lead under the proposed project to provide financing for TYH is regarded as
an initiative certain to improve significantly the receptivity of the market
to the proposed borrowing.



- 18 -
Project Description
51.       The proposed project comprises:
(a) the construction of the following sections of TYH identified by
the TYH Prefeasibility Study as being those where additional
traffic capacity is most urgently needed (Map IBRD 10862R3):
(i) in the Republic of Slovenia, a new four-lane limited
access highway from Celovska to Dolgi Most (9.2 km)
serving to divert TYH through-traffic from the city
network of Ljubljana;
(ii) in the Republic of Croatia, two additional traffic
lanes to, and the reconstruction of the existing
two-lane limited access highway from Ivanja Reka to
Popovaca (48.3 km); and
(iii) in the Republic of Serbia, two additional traffic
lanes to, and the reconstruction where needed of the
existing two-lane limited access highway from Pojate
to Deligrad (22 km), and the construction of a two-
lane bypass of the city of Nis (6.3 km); and
(b) the procurement of equipment for road maintenance and for monitor-
ing the loadings of vehicles using the primary network.
52.       While it so happens that the four specific sections, singled out by
the prefeasibility study solely on the basis of economic criteria (see para
51 above) are located physically in the more developed parts of Yugoslavia,
it is important to reiterate that the benefits of any improvement of this
important trunk route would permeate the entire economy, and that the con-
tribution the proposed project would make in terms of improved planning and
coordination and of aiding Yugoslavia's access to international capital
markets are fully consonant with the overall Bank strategy in Yugoslavia
as described in para 19 of this Report.
53.       Engineering, according to acceptable design standards, has been
carried out by competent Yugoslav engineering consulting firms (design insti-
tutes) and by institutes for geology, soil mechanics and civil engineering.
Project Cost and Financing
54.       The total cost of the project, including taxes and duties (about
US$30.8 million equivalent or about 12 percent of total project costs), is
estimated at US$257 million equivalent. The foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$80 million, based on the assumption that, as in the past,
local contractors will win the awards of construction contracts after inter-
national competitive bidding. A 10 percent physical contingency has been
included to allow for unforeseen increases in quantities of work in road
construction. Price escalation has been calculated using annual rates of 9



- 19 -
percent for each year up to 1980 and 8 percent thereafter, and has been
assessed the same for both local and foreign costs. 1/
55.       The proposed loan of US$80 million corresponds to the foreign ex-
change component of the project costs (31.1 percent of total costs); local
costs amounting to US$177 million will be borne by the Republics of Slovenia,
Croatia and Serbia. A condition of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement (Sec-
tion 7.01(a)) requires that each of the three participating Republics will
have adopted regulations authorizing the construction and financing of their
respective road sections, including the provision of guarantees to cover
both the financing and possible cost overruns.
Borrowers and Project Execution
56.       For the construction components of the proposed project the loan
would be made to the Road Organizations of Slovenia, Croatia and Serbia in
the amounts of US$19.6 million, US$39.2 million and US$20.1 million, respec-
tively. As under the Seventh and Eighth Highway Projects (Loans Nos. 1143-YU
and 1377-YU, respectively), the CRO would act as fiscal agent for the project,
coordinator of disbursement requests to the Bank, and liaison agent between
the Borrowers and the Bank on project-related matters. A condition of effec-
tiveness of the Loan Agreement stipulates that the concerned Republics will
have delegated authority to CRO to undertake these obligations (Section 7.01
(c)). For the procurement of equipment, US$1.1 million of the loan would
also be made to the Road Organizations of Slovenia, Croatia and Serbia. The
CR0 would also be responsible for overseeing the procurement of the road main-
tenance and vehicle-weighing equipment provided for under the loan. For this
purpose, the Federal Government, through its Federal Committee of Transport
and Communications would ensure that the necessary authority is delegated
to the CRO (Loan Agreement Section 7.01(c) and (d); Guarantee Agreement Sec-
tion 3.02).
57.       Although they have not indicated their intention of so doing, the
three Republican Borrowers may wish to operate their respective highway sec-
tions as toll roads, as some Republics have done for road sections financed
under the Third, Fifth and Seventh Highway Projects (Loans Nos. 608-YU, 751-YU
and 1143-YU, respectively). It was agreed under these earlier loans that if
tolls were to be imposed, they would be applied flexibly and at such levels
as not to divert an unduly large portion of through-traffic to the alternative
toll-free facilities or means of transportation. During negotiations the
Republican Borrowers similarly agreed that this same principle would apply to
the application of any tolls on the highway sections financed under the pro-
posed loan (Loan Agreement Section 3.05). This approach is consistent with,
and takes account of, the Operations Evaluation Department Performance Audit
Report (No. 1385) on the Yugoslav Third Highway Project (Loan No. 608-YU)
distributed December 10, 1976.
1/   See cost table in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this
Report.



- 20 -
Procurement and Disbursements
58.       Construction contracts based on unit prices would be awarded after
international competitive bidding in accordance with the "Bank's Guidelines
for Procurement." Contracts would be of such a size as to encourage maximum
participation of foreign and local contractors, allowing them to bid for one
or more sections up to their prequalified capacity. Contractors would be
prequalified for the works. Prequalification procedures will be initiated in
January 1978, bids invited in April, and contracts are expected to be awarded
to the lowest evaluated bidders in July 1978. Contracts will include satis-
factory price escalation clauses.
59.       As stated in para 54 above and in keeping with past experience, the
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$80 million, based on the assump-
tion that local contractors will win the awards of construction contracts
after international competitive bidding. The size of the foreign exchange
component varies due to different standards and types of construction for
the different highway works to be executed in the Republics concerned and has
determined the Bank's participation accordingly. Thus, the proceeds of the
proposed Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange component of project
costs amounting to 30 percent of the works in Slovenia, 30 percent of the
works in Croatia and 34 percent and 32 percent of the main road and Nis bypass
works respectively in Serbia, as well as the foreign exchange costs of the
equipment procurement.
Project Risk and Environmental Impact
60.       The proposed project would be the ninth in the highway sub-sector
to be executed in Yugoslavia. As the previous eight projects either have been
completed satisfactorily or are currently in progress without undue problems
(see para 45 of this Report), no special risks are expected in the execution
of the proposed project.
61.       Neither is the project expected to have an adverse environmental
impact; in fact, by reducing traffic congestion, a lessening of accidents and
air pollution will also result, and the alternative routes proposed will en-
hance several urban environments by the diversion of heavy traffic.
Justification
62.       The proposed project will provide direct benefit to all road users
in terms of reduced transport costs. Several industrial centers which are
directly served by TYH and which produce the bulk of the country's output of
construction materials, fuels, chemical products, wood and wood materials
will receive benefits in the form of reduced transport costs. The favorable
impact of the project will also be felt by local traffic and therefore addi-
tionally by the farming communities along the proposed highway sections.
The project will provide a stimulus both to international trade and to the
Yugoslav tourism industry, thereby increasing the country's foreign exchange
earnings. Because of the competitive nature of the road transport industry,
it is expected that the benefits of the project, which initially accrue to
road users, will be passed on to the economy in general.



- 21 -
63.       The quantitative economic analysis of the project road sections
takes account of savings in vehicle operating costs, passenger travel times
and road maintenance costs. Benefits due to increased comfort, convenience
and safety have not been considered.
64.       The expected cost savings in vehicle operating costs per vehicle
km in the opening year of the project roads range between 22-37 percent for
passenger cars and 29-43 percent for buses and 24-37 percent for trucks and
truck-trailers. Savings in transport costs, excluding passenger time savings,
account for about 90 percent of the total benefits from the Nis bypass con-
struction because of the substantial distance reduction in avoiding the con-
gested city center. These savings also account for about 25 to 50 percent of
total benefits in the case of other arterial routes included in the project.
65.       Based on the most probable estimates of traffic growth, construction
costs, maintenance costs, vehicle operating costs and travel time costs, the
proposed investments on the project road sections produce economic returns
(ERs) ranging from 27 to 54 percent. In the extreme case where benefits
derived from foreign vehicles are excluded, the ER for each project section is
still greater than 20 percent. ERs are evaluated at domestic prices excluding
taxes. Shadow price adjustments for foreign exchange, labor and so forth do
not change the results by more than 0.5 percent. All sections yield first-
year benefit ratios ranging from 17 to 42 percent on the proposed investment.
The weighted average ER of all the civil works components, which account for
about 99 percent of total project cost, is 31 percent. Sensitivity analyses
were carried out to test the effects of variations in construction costs and
users' benefits on the above estimates. Even under the unfavorable assumptions
of a 15 percent higher construction costs combined with a 15 percent reduction
in users' benefits, the ERs remain within the range of 21 percent to 46 per-
cent with an overall economic return of 25 percent.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Republiska Skupnost Za
Ceste S.R. Slovenije (Republic Community for Roads of the Socialist Republic
of Slovenia); Samoupravna Interesna Zajednica Za Ceste S.R. Hrvatske (Self-
Managing Community of Interest for Roads of the Socialist Republic of Croatia);
and Republicka Samoupravna Interesna Zajednica Za Puteve Beograd (Republican
Self-Managing Community of Interest for Roads, Belgrade); the draft Guarantee
Agreement between the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
67.       Special conditions of loan effectiveness are described in paragraphs
55 and 56 of this Report and set forth in Section 7.01 of the Loan Agreement.
These conditions specify that:



- 22 -
(i) the Republics of Slovenia, Croatia and Serbia have each given
a guarantee to cover the financing of their respective sections
of the project roads, including cost overruns, and have adopted
regulations authorizing the construction of these sections; and
(ii) consents and approvals have been given for the CRO to undertake
the obligations referred to in the Loan Agreement, namely to
act as fiscal agent for the project, coordinator of disburse-
ment requests to the Bank, and liaison agent between the
Borrowers and the Bank on project-related matters, and to be
responsible for the procurement of equipment for maintenance and
for monitoring loadings of vehicles provided for under the loan.
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve this proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
MarchlO, 1978
Washington, D.C.



TABLE 3A                                             ANNEX I
YUGOSLAVIA          - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                           Page 1 of 4 pages
LAND  AREA    ( THOU  KM2)            --     ------ - ------ --- ---- -
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                              YUGOSLAVIA                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       255.8                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      144.2                       1 90       1970   ESTIMATE           ROMANIS         SPAIN          GERMANY FED.REP. OF***
_____ _-__ ----- -- ----    -      _ - _  -.   _  ____    _  _     _  _  _  _
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     380.0 *  830.0*  1680.0 *L-&             550.0 Ia  1580.0*    4420.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            18.4       20.4       21.5 /a            20.3         33.6        61.6
POPULATION OENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        72.0       80.0      84.0 /a             85.0        67.0       240.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        124.0      139.0     149.0 Ta            136.0       105.0       439.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          26.8       21.0       18.2               19.0        21.0         17.3
CRUDE DEATH l.TE (/THOU.AV)           11.5        9.1        9.2                0.9         8.S         11.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)         88.0      55.5       40.5                49.4        27.9        23.6
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        63.7       67.7       68.0               67.7        70.5        70.3
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                1.4        1.3        t.3                1.3          1.4         1.2
POPULPTION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  1.2        1.0        0.9                1.0         1.1          1.
URBAN                                  6.0        4.8         .                 3.4         2.0         4.1
URBAN POPULATION (x OF TOTAL)           27.2       38.7       39.0 /b            40.8S        59.1        82.4
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        30.7       28.3      26.3                25.9        27.8        23.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                        63.2      64.3       65.4                65.5        62.5        63.6
65 YEARS AND OVER                      6.1        7.4        8.3                8.6         9.7         13.2
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.6        0.6        0.5                 0.5         0.6         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0         *         0.8 Ic             0.7 /b       1.1         0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)            .-         ..         ..                  ..
USER.  (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)                                  ..         ..                                ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOLSAND)          8300.0         ..      9150.Q0d          9900.0    11900.0    26500.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          57.0         -         39.               49.0        25.0          8.9
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)            7.0                    5   e                          1.1 la      0.7
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
_- -- - - -  _- --._ - -- --
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             16.4  a   1S.1
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             41.5  a   41.4                              . 
LOWEST  20% Of HOUSEHOLDS              6.9        6.6         ..
LOWEST  40% Of HOUSEHOLDS             19.0       1S.4         ..
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 1 0% Of OWNERS (I)       15.1**    15.1**    15.1**
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS(11)   84.9**    84.9**    84.9**
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             14QQ.  /b10 10.0       850.0               680.0        740.0 lb  s58.o
POPULATION PER NURAING PERSON        1350n. /b  410.0       450.0               200.0           *        350.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            200.0      170.0      170.0               140.0 IC   220.0         90.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)         115.0      124.0     137.0               118.0        1o7.o       121.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               91.0       92.0      97.5                92.0         81.0        88.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          27.0      .29.0      35.4                28.0         40.0        56.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              4.5        2.6        1.7                 2.4         0.9         0,9
EDUCATION
ADUJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        96.0       94.0       96.0 L.           113.0        123.0       129.0/a
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      34.0       45.0       49.0 /o            44.0         57.0        66.07a
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              12.0       12.0       12.0              12-13         11.0        15.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                      72.0       72.0       74.0               ss58.0       20.0        48.0/a
ADULT LITERACY RATE (x)                 77.0       85.0         ..                            94.0        99.0
HOUSING
PERSoNS Pt'. ROOM (URBAN)                1.7         ..        1.3/b               1.3/I        ..         0.71b
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (x                          .-                 61.5/Aa              88.0 /dea   ..           0.3/c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  54.5         ..      89.2/a               49.0 Id                100.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                    36.1          .       8O.1/b              27.0 |d
CONSUMP TION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER-THOU POP)          85.0      163.0     193.0                152.0       214.0       318.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            3.0       35.0       72.0                  ..        71.0       220.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           480.0    1288.0   1887.0                 1615.0      1634.0      4123.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                2.3        4.3        3.8                 2.6         5.8         17.7
SEE NOTES AND DEFNlhTIDNS oN REVERSE



NOTES
(as,iI;roir    nfl   Iat- m   t906(1.rer to Any year Ivten1959 and 1961, for I''   ,taer1'60    '    I..od   or Mot Recent Estteta;ebeuc
*  11' tocapIa  loa ar  ba. d on the World Bank Acte  nethad*logy  (1974-76 oc-le.1
oa  ,mtr.ol 0cclad hon1d by -ooc lolsetOr  (innbinait
en    U   -frl    rte   andh.ld ho privat. Me  htes l-ider.I10  ctares nanimantn
enn   elOciOt   1 feera   Republic If Gaesi5ly0   n. obj.ctive c-ryt s  La based no rh, Cloo-  --oonic   18tltle    yth    a    oa                              sa
s  nte    ct th.t 'he greater Part of ouoeaa   aro..nd  -n  .lllion conker,  loport-Ily abrod hare-  iodaslytn   n the FnderJ
yIl(dfSLflA1960                  1a   L96;       /b  1962.
mu rBOCENT LTori_AE            Ia 1976;    /hs  1971;         Pc..a".  ni pop-a-lor  t,,dor 11  ted  5  -ed   -c toetal I.lbor f--
Id  1ncluding abant 600 th-stoad nireant                     -kikr ,crll.g  -trnd.;  In1975.  ;e,   . 
3Acd-  reaid.nt labor fence;           'c1TO7l-Il,4e.  I.             ,    9'2;    '7'sIntde  -1lr
clOMANIA                       1970      IA  Not conp-rbla  to th... for other Contrally    ined/'or,e . rin-td by .eif  he  Bank  ;tiae nechodology,
hy  djoatine  official R-1n-a  nationnl aott dtaod  'r-vLe lol  then Lot   IS doll am   at the .                           o  lt
rochen% a rnate for fcroglgt  trade  trnceb:e,lihuprul2ro    e    /t.e  I/S dolla.r;                          /h   Ratio  1pcltr
under 15sand 65 and  -vr to ItotIllabor force                .c     oPiz         J     : 'ly. l-v   sanitarin  and  mtrloIon
/d   1966:      It   Ineide only.
PA IN                L~~~~970   Ia  tploy-set offic    etai;              /b  Registerad, e         ..ral   rrlt     In Ohr  ..'fty
,   *m~Y   FED. REP. (I   1070      la Incud   the relvant, data relatIng  to Berlin  I-  uft -'porairdta t-re nc-   heve"  s,pplied ;    II                              l. rt
mreal      'IC    naido tel,.
114. 'arc' 2. 1,4110
DEPONIIIONS OF SOtIAL INDICATORS
2                                                          ______________________Z___`_______ ____d 1   1-1 r                               _
Total- Toal stfan   are  rap  1,15  lad area ad Inland eaes-itadinI    tdatr.Oo    ravd" o  "re td   era                                                                  n
naaelrIcc crpe. paroree.tark I &  itohee gardana or tolefolios.                         Pooaln   e    opta    o              opulatio   diolded1 by nobro o_ia    O
aalble  inpulc          prinat  banerai and aP-aiaited hoP  :tral 
3SF  et  apia  1101- GP pr cPLtO  -si-t-o  ato--tr           sacket pricea.                   rhabiIttai_n  renters;  -ecld.. n-t lo  hola. and                            f-alartt   o
N   cal  ,pi,t . by  )    NP pcetraic-Iehe       ed  M.onIcoLaa  (1973.75 b.alsl                      cuatodia1 ad pr--tive  care.
job,f  1970 And 1975 data.                                                                        Per -aPIt,    neol   01 foord e  7PP   Of. _eurmne       optdiae
l~~.                                                                    equtnalant of oat fond euppi tea aoa ~~flabl. it   ..otry Par topt        Ve o;
-p,lalaS   irdte   -pcrl.n  innaati  prodooloI..po    lt  nport.ae
Poenltion InidvterolIlotlI Ia o  Icl  first:  if not a-JL.bl., avert.                       ch na  i.e Stock; lott auppltnsno lIod  aaLma1 lead, seeds, qu-tities need
of teao  nd-raceeatbeate ; 116. 1970  nd 1975data.Li  food pro.....itg and l1os-  In dimtribtbu a; raqutrants  seat. ..tiat.d
Of  -   -ld _" r te t 16". 19.  and 1111 dale.                            ~~by tAO b ...d an phyaio1ogioad  needs for na..-Lcivt   and htsa1c   cast.'-
peerlatin  dttli   -  tCt  quar  -   id-yar  opsaetio  pe  aqsarebOlser       rise  eeviottl to"rt.roe, bedy weights.  .qe and scditerrt   .'.
(100.~ b dntaaaI o  toa    ra                                                                         ppaan.-       end- aliottelasg cak1leorIST: Icr  -tao  at hoeadlvl
Peeltadtait - eat esaeI   f   art,  Leand - C_jeatd cc aba.rIo                                Par ...eit. ..cettir    ..t ectai  lenas-  er day) - Protaei  ceeccat of Par  c.pica
agiLt_t    e I                                                                                   ea nt -tpply af food pat day; not  -tpply of load is d.fintd cc abon;              oin
t  LTn.                                                                         eanta for al  catrt  set.bliahad by USDA ifonnaic  tactarah Sarviten
fled   acariatloc                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~proeld. for A~anitana al1 lsers  of 60 gcr    of total prectin  per day, end
linda    it   tact   a   hoed. vac              Anneal live birth. per tbonosd Of                      20 gree    falsladpta    ott,o   sib1    e                         hndh   naa
.id-ynt   opdcin  tevAt ticti  asrage   ending in 1960 otd 1970,                                     protctI; thnas  tcandard.c ar  Ie  te ch..        ath. of 75   MS a l-  occ  protalop.Ii
an .iever at.rase oodlre  in 1975 for act re-et etlaetat.                                      and 23 gras of anianal proecilee  aneo-rag. tar the  -nId, propoend by FAlI
Crdadahrc    r   hoat.eea-Iseei da-h. par thoaceol of mid-year                                        it ttsa Third World (nod boe.-
poptaltiono; ttyO            _rttti   rrf      eda   n160 and 1970 and flo-                        Pe   Cntapoti   itlc to  -nao   ad puist - Presin suppLy ot food
year  -vrage ending in 1975 for ... trc.entat tt.derived teao anial   -n   toein    a    e  day.
blanceorcditf   ate  /cho Al - cu I"d"oh' of in taud-e ona y-a  Of age                      Death  vats  (/,h..)  ace, 14  . --eo    deaths Par thoanand In ae group 1-.
yet, tohildren, i  this age or-p; .Soggeecd a. an inOdicto..rof
Life 1    "',YtnC   at hires~ Inl-vera..g        . tobar Iof years of I lif   r-naing enatturlio
hic; faal   ive-ea  ataga   andiog it I96., 1900 and 1975 fot develop-
Leg  _ooceda                                                                                       Educeitn
Itos   ranrodutOcnI     . te-      .8.g e-ber of Jl-v  daughters A want. will beer            .      Adlutod  e-roNlbot  ratio  - primsr,   col-triitt  falae   npr
InhrtrL           esdOiepro    fseaprencpetn    g-epetiftetntg   of Ii                                                 -ty hool-aga  1papueino;nclude  chiltde an   ed 6-11year
fertiit   rot; --uaIIy floe-year avrnsadiog in I hO, 1970 and 19715                                  but adlo-tedfo   difrn              henrh of pritat  edooita;  fo  ceortee
for deon~ igpo    coyocara                                                                           uni-ersa   ducation. enIrel.losn  nay at Lsad   10%ao  sae pup isae   ee
Poe_altin Kroet  tat(7    total - Conpeetid antci. growth  rei   uf nid-yaror aoetha oficioal school sge.
popula tion fr 190-6,   19000ed              19  5.                                                Ad!.atd  anre1nsc   retto  - .conod.ry  coeo  - Copot.d  a1  b t.,.; s..Atona
peesjlation  eceeth rca  1%() - utrban - Capuced hAI. er-sh ret, of cetal                               -dntaeqoi-a  et I... e Osryr  of approved pcery. int-cio..
ppLaien; differan  dafelion, of urban areca nay affct ttsparabiliry of                             Provide. general. voctional or tcebhar traoinig in-rc-tions  mr: ppils
daa  to Cc srea.                                                                             of 12 to 17   -.e of ege; narr.epondoanc.        tart.r  generallyA  Matdd.
lIchn  poulaien   1  of  otal  - Rtio   f uban te total popsLatia; diffsrent             YearsIlahaiaeeie    tr,and  secod   7eell-  otlyar  at
definitions orf ur.e  areS ey aff.t c-onptability of data  .ng  eantri.s.                            aeeLthg at anonodery  Level1!.voCiOeci ntracicm nay he partially  or
Baaet'.acua   lerent  -Children (.-II yacr.l , eanking-oge, (15-64 yeersl                     Vnootionoa.e1 lot   (.of -econdaryl      oeiolitduin    nld
ndrtlrd15  er  and  -cr) ec praret.ge  of nid-..er paptalacon.                                    tatiheice1  industrIal Or oc,er pr-gr-   :shie   prt    neednl    ra
As.  daand ..cY  ratio - Ratio at population under 15 aed 65 and ove  ta thone                           epeet  of s_cod_r   ctttce
of ages 13 thaa    4                                                                                duic  literate  rate  (  - Lit-rat  ad,,lse  (aele  to reed end -riel,a)          7
Ocemc "d _teeo    aco-U              of popelatLn  under 13 and 61 end over to                       cencage of ctota  adult PepI-oloen   and 15oerat    er
the laborforce 1, so  grop of 1t-6   yee.
Pafly   elanoiea-aotn (t,rs Lctsule64  tch.u) - C. oltive neber Of  cepters                  H- alo
of blrh-o.....rr   d-cicas undercu pioss ofntoa    alypane    rare                                   rrtss    o    e       ub.:  - A-erag. ember O1 peron   per rca  Ic   -pcuid
sines leespeino.                                                       ooavmeieeel dean~~~L.g   in urban area.; doeli.ge enLud. no-p-r-nn
Pa l= lndt-oss(7o  ere                    an       ssnaa   of narri.d omena  of                    tcruttree  and ueoocpled pra
chIld-b-arcog  age   1,115-4   ysr 790  a         -bth-tocol-   devita  to all eatld               0 ...uried  de-InIes   ich_tc  elpd  ucr (7  - Itctoplad  --oeni-nc  4-eelllg,
Os- n L    as  ags. genep.                                                                            io uban and  -rro  areae c t1hot icaid. or ..taidt piped uac  F.cilUi.ia
usP. pecetag o.f alloeptid dullog-.
OEel1eiea.t                                                                                           R-OesC   to  aleottlcitly  17  oa L i talitgal.". - Cnet ional  deaellfgs with
Total  labor  forte (th-uaad) - t.Oonaf-aly attics p-oers , iscloding  oaced                           ectn it In living quaters as per.cn  of total dseeling. in orban and
forra   an lueploye  hot  -!eldleg h-cantl-e, ard.nra, .,tr.   Weiniton                               rural area.
Invriu   c-sriec  aenot ool.par.bie.                                                           Rorci  d-mel toss ,cnnctd   rae1.tcrio Icy   C, .Copucd as aboy. far rurl1
Labor  forsI.c        iot.        i -vrclua   ao   oce(ntnfg    oety                                    dwltliga only.
huntng  nd  tshig)  a  peceecsaIf cocal labor farct.
Othhelonnd 'I  of  labor frbeed'L....    . -=epleyad' sece, el-ly defined a  pereon  wole             Coanio
a-r  cin aed  illing  to take, a jab, out of A jas  n     ivndY, rsined on                           ad     rcevr   (one  thou Pop) - 011 typee of re..aivera  fee radio braed... cs
ofA jab, and ateking work f.r A  pecified eieioaes   pefod net aneseding one                          to ga.er-1 public per thotaand of ponisulonb; secludes un Ice d receivers
-ktI; nay not be comparable Ibsate.  c triros dong is differvnt deinitions                            in c-ontries and in Year  when regitration  of radio eata wes Ln effect
of onnpiOved end sourc  of dare, e.g.,  -Pitsmeser O1ct er                        .-tia ePI.           at  (Or rcent. - er  nay net ho nonpe-ble   it   etcuvre    blse
sureys  cpuleryu-ployteent ioseec.-n-c  ig
Penner cr   (per  then POP)         ...aesngar care capriac netor car.senating
1-a   di-icbucion - P-rceia    of,~ private  iocat (1beth  In cah acId bind).                           less rhace ight Persons; tncldes                      h..-ce,ea .s and military
_eneird by ri.hett 3%. riches  00%,Ipeoree20%  ond peees c-t  f h-a-vhOole..
nelda.                                                                 Ilactricicy   lbea~~~~~~~~~~(h/yr prt cap) - Ae.-I con ptpi- on f i.doatrii.lterla
public and priyst. electri.ity, to kilwetit hoora Par capits, generally
fi.tribuftdo    of  land  ownership -Paree..teg.a  of land owened by onalthi-ct lot                     bte.d on production data, uIt.chu  allon.ne   far looeas in grida bce alla--
aed poor-a  tOt of iced aser.                                                                          e  for taper-  and epraorflIcre loy.
MI: ewteit.(bk&/y par cad) - Per caPita annual conempti in kilograma,
llalh    nd toritinogthce   free doneestic praductton plus net importts of nentepriec.
potLatl     Pe r pbys Ic ta  - Population dildad by Otab.r Of prct.icing
phy.tiiona  quallfied Iro   a  edical school at university 1a-e.



Page 3 of 4
ECO  UC DRVmPIW0    DATA
(Am,ounts in Million US Dollars)
Actual              Proil.ns,ry    ratint d
1972     1973      1974        1975             1976               1965-72       1972-75       1973-76         1972      1974      1976
Ar`lONAL ACCOLNTS                        Constant 1974 Pricee *nd Exchaa   e   of 51 - 17,0 Din.                 Avara. Anral Groth Rate                      A5 Percent of GDY
Ur050 Sorestic Product                     21,638  22,720   24,765        25,887          26,922                  5.6           6.2           5.8          97.8    100         99.3
Gaias Ito,, Terms  of Trace                   468      681       -          +142             +lS7                                                           2.2      -          0.7
CroSS Donestic In.one                      22,106  23,401   24,765        26,029          27.119                  5.5           5.6           5.0         100.0    100        100.0
I.ports (incl.  PFS)                        6,588   7,600    8,312         8,350           8,082                 12.6           8.2           2.1          29.7     33.6       29.8
E.oortc (incl. NFS)                         5.437   5.788   S.659          5.872           j.,506                 8.3           2.6           4.0          24.5      23.0      24.0
Roso-rce Gap                                1,151   1.812    2,618         2,478            1. 76
Co--uoption E.penditure                     16,139  17,716   19,953       19,795           19,670                 6.7           7.0           3.5          73.0     80.6        72.5
1-v-oto,nt Expenditure                      6.650   6,816    7,429         8,570           8,827                  6.0           8.8           9.0          30.1      30.0      32.5
Natio...l Savi.go                           6,904   6,806    6,241          7,330           8,717                 6.6           2.0           8.6          31.2      25.2      32.1
Do-n.tic Savings                             5,499   5,006    4,812         6,092           7.252                 3.1           3.3          13.2          24.9      19.4      26.7
MEECMARC DISE TRADE                                  Annual Oatt  at Current Price.                                                                        As a Percentaaie of Total
I.o,prts
Capital Cood.                               689   1,004    1,305         1,887            1,758                                                          21.3      17.4      23.9
Petroloon ,nd Fuols                          177     359       952         943            1,080                                                           5.5      12.6      14.6
I.tor,odiate Goods                        1,859   2,450    4.291         4,109           3,618                                                           57.7      57.1      49.1
Conn,osntlon Goods                           502     698       972          758             911                                                                    1 i2.9     12.4
Total Merch.  Isports (c.i.f.)            3,227   4,511    3;            7,697           77;7                                                           100.0    100.0      100.0
Exports
Capital Good.                               316      389       514          695             920                                                          14.1      13.5       18.8
T-xtIIo ..d L.JtLI,r Goods                  362      409       477          600             761                                                          16.2      12.5       15.6
Non-firrous Metallurgy                      272      325       556         458              472                                                          12.2      14.6       9.7
Agriculturol P-od.ots (incl. food)          400      475       439         488              640                                                          17.9      11.5       13.1
Other                                       887   1.255    1.S19          1.831          2 ,85                                                           39 6      47 9      42.8
Total Merch. Exports (f.o.b.)             2,237   2,853    3,805         4,072           4,8                                                                      100.0     100.0
MERCHAIDISE 181E INDICES                                       1974 * 100
Export Pricc Inden                            63      76       100          109             114
lmport Price Index                           58       68       100         105              109
Tcrt of Trod. Ind..                          109     112       100          104             105
Export Volmse  Index                         93       99       100           98             112
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                      Annul Data In Constant 1974 Prices and Exchange Rate
of S1 * 17.0 Din.                                                                           AA a Percent.ze of Total
Agricullurc                               3,213   3,496    3,763         3,663           3,846                  2.7          4.5            3.7          15.6      16.0      15.0
.n.ufaeturi.g and Mining                  6.374   6,712    7,471         7,66             8,1125                6.6           7.4           6.6          31.0      31.8       31.8
Other                                    10.956  11.362   12.276        13-026           13,589                 5.4           5.9           6.2          53.3      52.2       53.2
Total                                    20,543  21,570   23,510        24,577          25,560                  5.3           6.2           6.2         100.0    100.0       100.0
?UOLI,C FIN.'ANCEY                                             Current Prices                                                                             As Percent of CDP/Msrket Pricrs
Current Receipts                          2,772   3,489    4,8416,305                      ..                   ..            ..            ..           17.5      19.5
Current E.penditoreo                      2,520   3,154    4,794          6,267            ,,                   ..            ..            ..           16.0      19.4
BOdge.try Savings                           252      335        47           38            ,,                   ..            ..            -             1.6       0.2
Poblic Sector Investnent                     224     281       328          352            ,,                   ..            ..            ..            1.4       1.3
LAbOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER WORKCER3                        TOTAL LABOR FORCE                                    VALUE ADDWD PER WOllR (1974 PRICES ADD EXCHANGE RATE S1   17 Din.
Million        % of Total          1972-75                       US Dollars             Percent of Averate         1972-75
1972    1975    1972    1975   Av. Ann. Growth Rate                1972      1975             1972     1975    Av. Ann. Crowth Rate
Agriculture Y                               3.55    3.10   45.4    39.0           -4.6                         905    1,182                34        38             9.3
IA,OofaO norixo and MionlO                  1.65    1.87   21.2    23.6            4.3                       3,863    4,218               147       136             3.0
Other 2/                                    2.60    2.95   33,4    37.4            4 3                       4 214    4 416               160       142             1.6
Total~ -7.80    7.92  100.0   100.0                                                o.8                       2,3      3,                  100      lCO               n
1/ Budgets of Feder-tion. Rep.blics and Autosonous Proinces, and Comunes uncneoslidated.
if  Total reeident active labor force, i.e. eacluding -orkers abroad end   nploywd.
3/ Estisated active labor force in the private and social agricultural sector.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
January 27, 1979



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
Annual
Actual                                 Estimated  Growth Rates
1972    1973    1974    1975         1976        1977        1972-76
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                  3424    4363    5696    6307         7259         7985          20.0
Imports (incl. NFS)                  3828    5124    8337    8760         8664       10832           22.5
Resource Balance (X-M)               -404    -761   -2641   -2453        -1405       - 2847
Interest                             -165    -222    -285    -337         -350      -  428           20.2
Workers Remittances                   889    1301    1511    1575          1728        1750          18.1
Other factor services net              17       50       93      62          40          42          23.8
Current Transfers (net)                82       96      138     121         137         150          13.6
Balance on Current Account            419      464   -T18     -             150     - 1333
M&LT Loans /I
Disbursements                       943    1170    1426    1850         1700         2424          15.9
Repayments                         -570    -686    -814    -930         -800      - 1091            8.8
Net Disbursements                     373      484      6       920         900        1333          24.5
Capital Transactions n.e.i./         -117    -255       139     -68       -133          -
Use of Reserves                      -675    -663      438      180       --917         -                   Actual
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                               DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE/L4.   1972    1973    1974          1975
Official Grants & Grant-like           -        -        -        -    Public Debt Out. &          IAlh0  1869.3  2033T3   22'T2-
Disbursed
Public M&LT Loans
IBRD                               75.0   104.9   256.5   209.0   Interest on Public Debt    63.2    97.1   101.2    120.8
IDA                                  -        -       -        -    Repayments on Public Debt 154.3   205.0   282.3    309.0
Other Multilateral                   -        -        -       -    Total Public Debt Service 217.5   302.1   383.5    429.8
Governments                       183.9   179.7   615.4   274.7   Other Debt Service              638.2   746.4   8227        989.7
Suppliers                          82.3      3.0       .6      -    Total Debt Service            855.7  1048.5  1206.2   1419.5
Fin&ncial Institutions            121.4       -     73.1    86.2
Bonds                                -        -     51.5       -    Burden on Export Earnings (Z)/5
Public Loans n.e.i.                 4.2       -        -       -
Total Public M&LT Loans             466.8   287.6   997.2   569.9   Public Debt Services Ratio .5.0            5.2      5.2       5.4
Total Debt Service Ratio   19.3    17.6    16.4          17.6
IDS - Direct Investment Inc. -          -        -         -
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31, 1975
EXTERNAL DEBT                 Disbursements only           Percent       Average Terms of Public Debt
World Bank                          559.1                  24.6
IDA                                   -                     -            Int. as X Prior Year
Other Multilateral                    5.3                     .2                         DO&D         4.7      6.0      5.4       5.9
Governments                        1304.3                  57.4          Amort. as % Prior Year
Suppliers                           115.6                   5.1                          DO&D        11.5    12.7    15.1        15.0
Financial Institutions              269.9                  11.9
Bonds                                18.1                    .8        IBRD Debt Outs. & Disbursed
Public Debt n.e.i.                     .1                   -                as % Public Debt O&D  19.6    18.8    20.6          24.6
2272.5                 100.0             as % Public Debt
Services     14.7    12.7    11.6        12.9
Other M&LT DebtsL_                 3492.7
Short-term Debt (disb. only)          -
1/ Includes direct foreign investment.
2/ Includes errors and ommissions, short term loans, net export credits, I1M account,
National Bank and Commercial Bank Credits.
3/ Estimate.
S/ Figures on debt service do not correspond with balance of payments figures due to
differences in coverage.
5/ Includes workers remittances.
Europe, Middle East & North Africa Region
January 27, 1978



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at January 31, 1978)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellation sj
Number  Year              Borrower(s)            Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
Twenty  Loans fully disbursed                                      553.2
777     1971   SFRY                           Multipurpose Water  45.0    17.5
782     1971   "Babin Kuk" Hotelsko
Turisticki Centar,
Dubrovnik                    Tourism               20.0     0.7
836     1972   Twelve Electric Power
Enterprises in Yugoslavia  Power                  75.0      7.2
894     1973   Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Agricultural
Industries          31.0      4.7
916     1973   Naftagas                       Gas Pipeline          59.4    21.6
947     1973   Kikinda                        Iron Foundry          14.5      0.2
990     1974   Bosnia-Herzegovina
Road Funds                   Roads                 30.0     0.5
1012    1974   Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Industrial Credit   28.0       3.5
1013    1974   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Industrial Cre'dit   22.0         3.9
1026    1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                     Railways              93.0    39.8
1060    1974   Port of Bar                    Harbor Expansion    44.0    23.3
1066    1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik              Water Supply and
Wastewater           6.0      5.0
1129    1975   Vojvodjanska Banka             Agricultural
Credit              50.0    32.0
1143    1975   Republic Road Organizations
in Slovenia, Montenegro
and Serbia                   Roads                40.0    20.5
1173    1975   Jugoslavenski Naftovod         Pipeline              48.5    41.6
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda           Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources           20.0    18.0
1263    1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &        Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise           Sewerage            45.0    42.5
1264    1976   Sarajevo Gas Enterprise        Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit           Control              38.0    37.4
1277    1976   Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
Stopanska Banka Skopje,
Investiciona Banka
Titograd, Kosovska Banka    Second Industrial
Pristina                      Credit               50.0    39.1



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9 pages
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)             Purpose          Bank  Undisbursed
1360     1977   Management Organization   Multipurpose Water  54.0         53.7
"Metohija"
1370     1977   Investiciona Banka,         Agriculture
Titograd                   Industries           26.0      25.7
1371     1977   Stopanska Banka, SkopJe   Agriculture
Industries          24.0      23.9
1377     1977   Republic Road Organiza-
tions in Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Serbia,
Macedonia, and Kosovo    Roads                  56.0     56.0
1469/a   1977   JUGEL                       Second Power
Transmission        80.0      80.0
1477/a   1977   Vojvodjanska Banka          Second Agricul-
tural Credit        75.0      75.0
Total (less cancellation)                            1,627.6    671.5
of which has been repaid                             184.2
Total now outstanding                                1,443.4
Amount sold                             7.8
of which:  Amount repaid              6.8              1.0
Total now held by Bank                               1,442.4
Total undisbursed                                                671.5
/a Declared effective in January 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at January 31, 1978)
Type of       Amount in US$ million
Year              Obligor                      Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment               Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia           Corporation      -       2.0      2.0
1970   Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.P.A.   Automotive
Industry         5.0    8.0      13.0
1971   Tovarna Automobilov in Motorjev       Automotive
Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt    Industry           7.5    2.6       10.1
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972   FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler            Automotive
Benz A.G.                            Industry        13.3    3.3       16.6
1972   Sava/Semperit                         Tires              4.0    1.5       5.5
1973   Belisce/Bel                            Pulp and Paper  13.3      -       13.3
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO              Special Steel   10.0       -       10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                        Cement Plant    10.0       -       10.0
1975   Rudarsko Metalurski                   Steel             50.0     -       50.0
1977   Frikom ro Industrija Smrznute         Food and Food
Hirane                               Processing       4.0    2.2        6.2
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin   Pulp and Paper
Products        14.8    2.4      17.2
Total Gross Commitments                                131.9   22.0    153.9
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                             68.3    2.6       70.9
Total commitments held by IFC                          63.6   19.4       83.0
Total Undisbursed                                      22.3   11.5       33.8



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The start of project work was delayed for one year.. Construction
is now underway, the main dam is completed and the reservoir is now being
filled. A small part of the irrigation network has been completed with the
remainder expected to be completed by 1978. Project costs have been above
appraisal estimates, but the overrun financing is being provided by the
Province of Kosovo and from Federal sources. Delays have been encountered
in the arrangements for boundary adjustment. Consultants have been engaged
to help find solutions, and the Kosovo Government has enacted appropriate
legislation. After a delay of about five years, a draft law has been prepared
by the Kosovo Government and is expected to be enacted in the near future,
which will assist in the provision of agricultural extension services to the
private sector.
Loan 782 Babin Kuk Tourism: US$20.0 million Loan of July 21, 1971; Effective
Date: June 12, 1972; Closing Date: July 31, 1977.
There were initial delays in the implementation of the project due
to lateness in making the loan effective and in mobilizing consultants. Bids
for civil works and estimates for other components indicated that the project
would cost at least twice as much as originally estimated (US$49.9 million),
largely due to rapid inflation in construction costs. The Bank and the proj-
ect sponsors agreed to finance a reduced complex containing some 2,034 beds
(Amendment to Loan 782-YU, December 16, 1974, R74-259) at a total cost of
US$51.5 million, requiring additional financing of about US$1.6 million and
a change in sponsorship which has been approved by the Bank (Amendment to
Loan 782-YU, October 4, 1976, R76-237). The hotels were inaugurated and
opened for occupancy in June 1976. Occupancy rate for 1977 was below expecta-
tions notwithstanding 100 percent occupancy during high season. This gave
rise to financial liquidity problems which were overcome with the assistance
of the sponsoring Yugoslav banks. The Closing Date will be extended to permit
disbursement for a computer as soon as delivery dates are established.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9 pages
Loan 836 Power Transmission: US$75.0 million Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective
Date: December 29, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The Project construction has progressed slowly and is expected to
be completed by mid-1978, about one and one-half years late. Its cost has
increased to about $425 million (up 89 percent) chiefly due to escalation in
prices. The resulting cost overrun is being financed from funds received
from the Federal Republic of Germany, local loans and from the Borrowers' own
internal sources. Appointment of management consultants was delayed until
mid-1976, but their recommendations have now been made and are being discussed
with JUGEL and the Borrowers with the objective of beginning implementation of
the recommendations by mid-1978. The promulgation of the new Constitution in
1974 and the consequent evolution of the legal and financial status of the
Borrowers, particularly in regard to the requirement of their policy of pool-
ing resources at the Republican levels required changes in the legal arrange-
ments including the application of financial covenants. These changes were
incorporated in the Second Power Transmission Project.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31.0 million Loan of May 25,
1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
All loan funds provided under the project have been committed by
subloan agreements through Stopanska Banka. Out of 43 subprojects financed
under the project, 36 are completed, five are under construction. Status of
the two remaining subprojects is as follows: (i) slaughterhouse facility
construction contract has been signed but is being amended to incorporate
Bank's comments; (ii) wine byproducts facility will either be retendered or
not constructed at all because of the high investment costs and resulting low
financial viability. In the latter case, a substitute subproject will be
financed.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973; Effective
Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The costs of equipment and civil works increased so that project
costs were about 71 percent above the appraisal estimate. As a result of
this and of a reallocation of priorities in the use of natural gas, the proj-
ect has been redefined (Amendments to Loan 916-YU, May 13, 1976, R76-116).
Phase I is a reduced version of the original plan. Phase II provides for a
pipeline extension to link up with the pipeline to be constructed under the
Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project, for which additional Bank financing
was obtained. Naftagas has obtained additional local currency financing
required for Phases I and II. A delay of more than two and one-half years in
project implementation has occurred as a result of the increased project costs
and revision of the project. Construction started in late June 1976, and the
project is scheduled for completion by end-1979.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9 pages
Loan 947 Kikinda Iron Foundry: US$14.5 million Loan of November 30, 1973;
Effective Date: May 28, 1974; Closing Date: March 31. 1978.
The Project was inaugurated on September 4, 1976. The Project Com-
pletion Report was prepared in September 1977. Total project costs exceeded
appraisal estimates by about 15% (about US$5.2 million equivalent) due to
increases in local costs resulting largely from design changes. Financing of
this overrun was arranged with a local bank.
Loan 990 Sixth Highway: US$30.0 million Loan of May 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
All road sections are open to traffic. Two requests for changes
in road alignments have been agreed in order to provide better service to two
communities. Procurement of engineering and laboratory equipment has been
contracted and payments are now being finalized.
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit: US$28.0 million Loan of June
21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is fully committed. Loan
disbursements have been accelerating after a slow start and are expected to
soon catch up and even surpass appraisal estimates.
Loan 1013 Bosnia-Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit: US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The note under Loan 1012 above applies also to this loan.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 12, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project consiscs of the 1974-76 slice of the Railways' 1973-77
Investment Plan. Government efforts to combat inflation caused railway tariffs
to lag behind inflation and gave rise to financial and administrative diffi-
culties which, in turn caused substantial delays in project implementation.
With tariff increases approved in early 1977 these problems have largely been
resolved. Meanwhile, institutional developments, including improved investment
planning and management, the formation of COIs and the signing of Social Agree-
ments on railway and transport policies have been most encouraging.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9 pages
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
In general the Project is progressing well. Except for railway
facilities outside the port area and the grain silos, the project is expected
to be completed by mid-1978, about six months behind schedule. The railway
facilities and grain silos are scheduled for completion by end-1978 and
end-1979, respectively.
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater: US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Delays in preparation of final designs and tender documents have put
construction about a year behind schedule.  Services to the Bank financed
Babin Kuk Hotel Complex (Loan 782-YU) were, however, completed in time for
its initial operation and the remaining water supply component is nearing com-
pletion.  Construction is progressing satisfactorily on the sewerage component.
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit:  US$50.0 million Loan of June 20, 1975; Effec-
tive Date: February 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The Project Operations Unit of Vojvodjanska Banka, established in
March 1976, is working satisfactorily. Project operations have shown encour-
aging progress with respect to appraisal methodology and related aspects of
institution building. Eighty percent of the loan has been committed. Dis-
bursements are behind appraisal projections, given initial organizational and
learning curve problems, delays in procurement, unfamiliarity of participa-
ting banks with withdrawal applications, timetaking translations and the time
lag between commitments and disbursements. However, disbursements have
accelerated during the last year and the situation is expected to improve
further in coming months.
Loan 1143 Seventh Highway: US$40.0 million Loan of July 18, 1975;
Effective Date: March 30, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
With the award of the last two contracts in Montenegro, work is now
in progress on all the project roads of Serbia, Slovenia and Montenegro.
Loan 1173 Naftovod Oil Pipeline: US$49.0 million Loan of November 19, 1975;
Effective Date: July 28, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Due to slower than anticipated progress of design and procurement
it is estimated that a seven-month slippage in the completion of Phase I will
occur, though it is expected that the balance of the Project will be completed
on schedule. The revised cost estimates of the Project indicate that there
would be a cost overrun of about 27 percent because of required changes from
original project components and increases in local costs. The Borrower is
taking steps to obtain supplementary financing from various sources both
foreign and local. The economic viability of the Project remains sound.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9 pages
Upon review of the award of a site preparation contract, the Bank concluded
that the contract was not awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement and the relevant portion ($470,000) that would have otherwise been
eligible for disbursement was cancelled from the Loan.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The regional development study is finished and the report is being
finalized. Terms of reference and selection of consultants have been finalized
for the flood control and water quality studies. Tender documents for the
Vrutci Dam have been reviewed, and construction will begin in early 1978.
Construction is completed on the principal parts of the Cacak component, the
remainder is well advanced. Construction is also underway in Titovo Uzice.
Final designs of sewage treatment plants in Cacak are underway, and in Titovo
Uzice, are dependent upon the recruitment of suitable foreign assistance
to local consultants. The pilot irrigation components have been delayed
pending the establishment of suitable monitoring arrangements. The impetus
towards the creation of the Morava Region Water Community of Interest has
slowed due to the longer than anticipated process of seeking agreement among
all the Yugoslav parties concerned on the structure of the organization.
Staffing has been strengthened in the water authorities in Cacak and Titovo
Uzice and in the Serbian Water Fund.
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
Major contracts for supply and installation of water pipes and
sewers have been awarded and preparatory work is underway. Prequalification
of contractors for the sewage treatment plant was completed and design work
is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan 1264 Sarajevo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Consultants for final designs and tender documents have been
recruited and work on major tenders is underway. Contracts for supply and
installation of gas distribution network and high-pressure loop-line have
been awarded and mobilization is underway. Tendering for gas transmission
line, Sarajevo-Zvornik, is underway.
Loan 1277 Second Industrial Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976;
Effective Date: October 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The portions of the loans to the Bosnian, Macedonian and Montenegrin
banks have been progressing satisfactorily and are currently projected to be
fully committed by early spring of this year. The portion for the Kosovan



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9 pages
bank is forecast to be fully committed by June 1978 (the final date for sub-
mission of subprojects is December 31, 1978). Disbursements are sltghtly
behind appraisal estimates.
Loan 1360 Metohiia Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 million Loan of February 3,
1977; Effective Date; July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Local consultants have been retained as project consultants and are
proceeding with final designs on the project components and preparation of
bidding documents. Two local construction contracts have been awarded and
invitations for international tenders for the dam will be issued shortly.
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 million Loan
of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Institutional arrangements have been completed, and the implementa-
tion of the project is proceeding on schedule. Invitations for international
tenders for the winery will be issued shortly.
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries:  US$24.0 million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, _1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
There were delays in instituting administrative arrangements,
including the hiring of procurement consultants, but implementation is now
proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1377 Eighth Highway: US$56.0 million Loan of April 13, 1977; Effective
Date: September 7. 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
This loan was declared effective September 7, 1977. The contract
for the road in Macedonia and a portion of the road in Kosovo remain to be
awarded.  Work on the Bosnian and Serbian roads and on a portion of the road
in Kosovo have already begun.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmission: US$80.0 million Loan of July 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 31, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The loan was declared effective January 31, 1978. Procurement has
commenced. The proposed loan from the European Investment Bank was signed
in November 1977 and local loan agreements have been executed.
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credit: US$75.0 million Loan of July 29, 1977;
Effective Date: January 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The loan was declared effective January 30, 1978.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
YUGOSLAVIA: NINTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare
the project:                                 July 1975 - September 1977
(b)  Project Preparation Agencies:                Federal Committee for Transport;
Council of Roads Organizations;
Roads Organization of Slovenia;
Roads Organization of Croatia;
Roads Organization of Serbia;
Design Institute of Zagreb;
Design Institute of Belgrade and
Faculty of Traffic Engineering,
University of Belgrade
(c) Preappraisal:
(i) First Government presentation
of project to Bank:                    March 1977
(ii) First bank mission to consider
project:                               March 1977
(d)  Appraisal Mission Departure:                 September 7, 1977
(e)  Negotiations Completed:                      January 27, 1978
(f)  Loan Effectiveness Planned:                  July 31, 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
The only activity required of the Bank in addition to project super-
vision will be the review of bid evaluations and concurrence with contract
awards.
Section III: Special Conditions in the Loan Agreement
(a) As conditions of effectiveness:
(i) the Republics of Slovenia, Croatia and Serbia will have
adopted regulations authorizing the construction and financ-
ing of their respective road sections, including the provi-
sion of guarantees to cover both the financing and possible
cost overruns (para 55);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(ii) consents and approvals have been given for the Council of Road
Organizations (CRO) to undertake the obligations referred to
in the Loan Agreement, namely to act as fiscal agent for the
project, coordinator of disbursement requests to the Bank, and
liaison agent between the Borrowers and the Bank on project-
related matters, and to be responsible for the procurement of
equipment for road maintenance and vehicle load monitoring pro-
vided for under the loan (para 56).
(b) The Federal Government to ensure that authority is delegated to the CRO
to undertake procurement of the equipment (para 56).
(c) Any tolls introduced in the future on any of the project road sections
would be set at rates that would ensure an economic use of such roads
and alternative routes or means of transportation (para 57).






IBRD 12416
\ 0 }' \ 0 ; SNORWAY  <          StoEDEY o'                    -                           C56 gEMENA TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM(MAIN ARTERIAL ROUTES)
----------
NOR,YtH   SE~A                                                     N.                6                                                                        W___ 0r.-05
p                          6g.                                                                                       Maj [       ,       t      i   0     .S.or RIrco
A R X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Asot
D.6 A    .                                                                                                                                                                         Eleot- ob-. lOO, meters
/                      OM       N                       BER                      D                                                                                         - - - - er
57/    . : 0sJ    2   )  A mfe.F         U     rs L Uw,>GERtiNiu.>2->-dP zCZECtOVAt t> A sE
| ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~60340    000Rl  900A  00                                                                                               0        00   rC   :3:.40
50                                           6'0"             --.i  GER  NO       PW 517CE  K.00061
4-< ,opos                                          ,,',, r
ATLiAN:TIC OCEANV
: ( j,2/t _,Fl,dtpCi                               JJ) >X rltaAvS  g:ElEO   IA  < >  0300Cc'  FOtoN{ 6>~
1A.0oeer5 -;                             N;                                                  X  t                                   .:                                                      -
g ;   i   r -- v   \        -     :  : 0 S               /                      ;    |~~~~~~~~~~OF  E_GP                                                        j2    \  944 rMR, n                           -JRyd   A  0tFt /^   >   dw
;/   MAURITANIA      \                  g     I      V        SS,NIGER                 - - PFA I        S r                                                                                                                        K  2
N.               o,44y4     I~4                          WA
I  0.0>   7   -.           I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~AD   AAIAPK
/ S  z  Q<\,_  _ /PA9d ,  D  z  K h     toum 2 ; >t  ARA8    OF gi,  BY                 ARAB'yREPU2LNC
5 e.     2      '                             /           p                          C;
S EN EGO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ EITA
MAUR'TAMA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PeR    p                          /~~~~~~~A A L4I
~~. ~-~~- 5.  V ~~~  '-Jor'roiooLoATh    >:'S''~~~E 
,J,sso-  />,~~~~~~~r  ~~~j        4e5e       Co\yi~~~~~~~IN'OCOD 
~GtJINEA  I ,W~- Ni9'l              W          ~               '~
1,   A>    (R'-~~~  WA ~~~"t   A'0690                        HAaD  KAAME0COAa






IBRD 108624R3
_r                        HO             '            T     /      _           dv        , t*_, Ir tr   DECEMBER 1977
A      U      S      T      R      I      A                                   ,t                     
Ar      r7~~                                  <; <               Okrtr s$         >S
> ,fT;iFC ' 'r , t v w >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U                                                             N           G           A              RY +  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R                                                                                                                   0        MN                     I <. A
-v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
YUGOSLAVIA
HIGHWAY SYSTEM
EUROUPEAN HIGHWAYS\/                                                                                                                                 -
-                            OTHER CLASS 1 HIGAWAYS
/.                                 FIRST SECOND, THIID, ANT FOURTH HIGHWAY  RU OJECT
AUSTRIA  'w',>t HANGAHY  ......FIFTH HIGHWAY PRnoeCT
, HONMANIA                          SIXTH HIGHWVAY PROJECT
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
EIH lTH H IGHWAY PROJECT
It,,,.UG                     PROPOSES NINTH HIGHWAY PIOJECT
HIGHWAY BRYIDE AT KCOSOV OPOLJR IH PROJECT)
C           A..,?   ~~AND KOSCOVO POUtE-PRISTINA SECTION ShRPROJHECTI
/  1  g                 *-.--.-H~~~~AA_WAYS
-r --       EOINTENATIONAL ROUNDARlES                                   .  .  .  .    .  .
OTHERURLIANDAUTONOMOUSPROVINCEtONIARIES                                                                                                        t/
Ny                                                     HsTaA. NGRH 15 .....R s..UU tU... FIRAT,ECN.HIRO.AURU IGWPAAYA  PROJPT 1A......................... HR''~ }e-,@5fiwrF*9SRR
-',v  ,X,                                                                                                                                   OJ~---- FIFTHHIGHWAYPROJCCT E E t C E
IRUIRIRI CIPIAAVARA A    PROSINHIGHWAY AR Rip SOUR, SL OC.RAR,RIIf
tS s ;,, > < HlGHWAYBRIDGEATKOSDVOPS.                              O       W         U                        OR                         HO                         RH1                                                   RH                          1 ZI 



