Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFMICIA USE ONLY
lit l't. N~C. I ill ' i  "!''y                  RCP0"No. 10075
,9i  _>i, (.[    /    X  .   hi  ;f\A j4 ,   : .- I}hèj}j  
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PILOT PROJECT FOR THE COMMUNAL !NFRASTRUCTURE FUND (FEC)
(LOAN 2272-MOR)
NOVEMBER 14, 1991
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



.
CURRENCY EQUIVALEhTS
Local Currency - Dirham (DH)
Appraisal Year Average:        US$1.00 - DH 6
DH 1.00 - US$0.167
Project Execution Average:    US$1.00 - DH 8.47
DH 1.00 - US$0.118
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BDCL  -     Municipal Development Bank
(Banque de Developpement des Collectivit6s Locales)
BM    -     Central Bank of Morocco
(Bank Al-Maghrib)
CDG   -     Savings and Management Bank
(Caisse de Depot et de Gestion)
CIH   -     Credit Immobilier et H6telier
CL    -     Local Authorities
(Collectivit6s Locales)
DGCL  -     General Directorate for Local Authorities
(Direction G6n6rale des Collectivit6s Locales)
FEC   -     Fonds d'Equipement Communal
MOF   -     Ministry of Finance
mOI   -     Ministry of Interior
ONE   -     National Power Corporation
(Office National de l'Electricit6)
ONLP  -     National Water Corporation
(Office National de l'Eau Potable)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - Dacember 31



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offioc of Direotor-Generai
Operation. Evaluation
November 14, 1991
MEM_RANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Kingdom of Morocco -
Pilot Project for the Communal Infrastructure
Fund (FEC) (Loan 2272-MOR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Xingdom of Morocco - Pilot Project for the Communal
Infrastructure Pund (EEC) (Loan 2272-MOR)" prepared by the EMENA Regional
Office. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document hs a tricted distribution and may be usd by recipiints only la the performance of their oMcil dutles.
Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborizatlon.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINDO.M OF MOROCCO
PILOT PROJECT -FOR THE COMMUNAL INFRASTRUCTURE FUND (FEC)
(LOAN 2272-MOR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE . . .        .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . .  .
EVALUATION SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           ii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . .
I.  PROJECT IDENTITY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             1
II.  BACKGROUND  . . . . . .                 . . .   . . . . . . .1
III.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION                .                 3
IV.  PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION . . . . . . . . . . . .             4
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            5
FEC Operations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            5
Financial Restructuring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            6
Institutional Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            7
VI.  PROJECT RESULTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            8
VII.  PROJECT SUSTAINABILIT&   ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  9
VIII.  BANK'S PERFORMANCE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             9
IX. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE .10
X.  RELATIONS BETWEEN THE BANR AND THE BORROWER.                       11
XI.  CONSULTANTS' SERVICES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            11
XII.  PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA  . . . . . . . . . . . .            11
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . .            12
Comments on Part I  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           12
Project Design  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           13
Project Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           14
General Project Overview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           15
Bank's Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           16
FEC's Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           16
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           16
Impact of FEC Actions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           18
Conclusions .                        . . . . . . . . . .  .       18
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            19
Table I   : Related Bank Loans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             19
Table 2   : Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             20
Table 3   : Cumulative Loan Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . .             21
Table 4   :  Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . .            22
Table 5   :  Status of Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . e . . .            23
Table 6.1 : Missions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             24
Table 6.2 :  Staff Inputs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd.)
Page No.
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION (cont'd.)
Table 7   : List of Subprojects  . . . . . . . . . . . . .       26
Table 8   : FEC Activity (1981-1990) . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
Table 9   : FEC Income Statements (1981-1990)  . . . . . . . .    29
Table 10  : FEC Sources and Application of Funds (1981-1990) .    30
Table 11  : FEC Balance Sheets (1981-1990) . . . . . . . . . .    31
Table 12  : FEC Financial Performance Indicators (1981-1989) .    32
Table 13 : Lending Rates .33
Table 14.1:  Accumulative Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . .    34
Table 14.2:  Distribution of Loans Refinanced by IBRD
by   Sector   .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  . .   .  35
Table 14.3:  Distribution of Loans Refinanced by IBRD
by Type of Borrower . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    36



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PILOT PROJECT FOR THE COMMUNAL INFRASTRUCTURE FUND (FEC)
(LOAN 2272-MOR)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report describes the preparation, appraisal,
and implementation of the Pilot Project for the Communal Infrastructure Fund
(FEC), for which Loan 2272-MOR in the amount of US$16 million was signed on
May 23, 1983. The project became effective on April 2, 1984 and was closed
on December 31, 1989 after one six-month extension. The loan account remained
open until February 7, 1990. The US$16 million loan was fully disbursed.
The Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by
the Infrastructure Operations Division, Technical Department, with the
assistance of the Infrastructure Operations Division, Country Department II,
of the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office, on the basis of,
inter alia, the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, supervision
reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank
memoranda, and consultaLion with implementation agency officials and staff,
and former project officers.
Part II has been prepared by FEC's managerial staff.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PILOT PROJECT FOR THE COMMUNAL INFRASTRUCTURE FUND (FEC)
(LOAN 2272-MOR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.       When the project was identified in 1980, Morocco's population was
approximately 20 million, with about 9 million, or 40% living in urban areas.
Whereas most of the urban population was concentrated in six major cities of
the Kingdom, a new trend emerged in which mid-sized cities experienced rapid
population growth in response to the development of agriculture, light
industries, and services. To address Lne new needs arising frim the shift in
urban population, the Government adopted a strategy aimed at administrative
decentralization and a more balanced regional development. By Decree-Law of
September 1976, the local authorities (CLs) were accorded greater responsi-
bility for infrastructure and public services management. This new level of
responsibility meant a simultaneous increase in their financial decision-
making authority.
Project Obiectives and Implementation Experience
2.       The project aimed at supporting the Government's decentralization
policy by assisting CLs in implementing primary infrastructure. This was the
second time,  after Jordan,!/ the Bank financed municipal  infrastructure
through a line of credit to a specialized financial institution.  The Bank
granted a US$16 million loan, consisting of a line of credit for refinancing
eligible subprojects at the local level (US$15 million), supplemented with a
technical assistance program (US$1 million). The borrower was the Government.
The Loan proceeds were used to reimburse FEC disbursements on the foreign
components of the projects it financed. There was a Loan Agreement between
the Government and the Bank and a Project Agreement between the Bank and FEC.
The foreign exchange risk was born by the Government. The Communal Infra-
structure Fund (FEC) was to prcvide CLs with both financial resources and
technical assistance.-' It was presumed that by strengthening FEC's technical
capacity, FEC would, in turn, eventually be able to help the CLe design
projects that were both economically and technically viable.
Jordan - First Cities and Villages Development Project (Loan 1826-JO).
2 The Communal Infrastructure Fund (FEC) is a public institution with legal
status and financial autonomy, established by Law No. 1-59-169 of June 13,
1959, as amended by Decree No. 929-66 of March 2, 1967. Its administrative
and financial management is entrusted to the Savings and Management Bank
(CDG).



_ iv -
3.       During project implementation, annual commitments of subloans to CLs
and public utility R6gies increased by more than 300%, from an annual average
of DH 120 million in 1981-84 to DH 530 million in 1989-90, along with FEC's
increase in, and training of, its professional staff, Disbursements of sub-
loans, however, were much slower, as the CLs' absorptive capacity was limited
due to (i) insufficient training of local staff in the appraisal of investment
projects and (ii) cumbersome withdrawal procedures, which were subject to
public expenditure guidelines.
4.       FEC's equity was to have been increased through three budgetary
allocations of DH 20 million p.a. beginning in 1983. However, out of these
three payments, the Treasury pr,;vided only two, the first one in 1985 and the
second one in 1988. Lending interest rates were also to have been increased
to yield a minimum spread of 3%. However, the progressive increase in FEC
loan interest rates was incommensurate with the more rapidly escalating
resource costs. In November 1986, the rediscounting facility at prime rate
available through the Central Bank was eliminated, compelling FEC to turn
hastily to more expensive resources, whereas its assets were locked at fixed
interest  rates.   This placed  FEC  in a precarious  financial position,
culminating in a negative spread for fiscal years 1987-89.   In 1990, a
positive spread was re-established.
5.       In collaboration with the Bank, FEC established project evaluation
criteria for each subsector and integrated them into a Policy Statement
according to schedule.    However,  because  of staff  and other resource
constraints, FEC was unable to supervise subprojects effectively.   It is
therefore impossible to ascertain the extent to which appraisal expectations
for cost recovery were met.
Proiect Results
6.       Ninety subprojects benefitted from Bank assistance.  Eighty-three of
these were for CL infrastructure and the remaining seven were for investment
projects  carriad  out by public utility corporations  ("R6gies").    Bank
refinancing averaged DH 1.49 million, or 42% of average project costs.  The
beneficiaries were 44 "rural communes"i,&o followed by 27 "municipalities", 12
"autonomous  centers"t,  and 7 R6gies.   The subsectors  benefitting were:
commercial infrastructure, 36 subloans; water supply, 12; solid waste
disposal, 11; and sewerage, 8.
7.       FEC staff, especially those in charge of financial activities and
appraisal studies, benefitted substantially from practical training. The use
of office technology for management control and financial projections made it
possible to simplify pro:edures, increase staff productivity, and develop a
better management approach.
3/ Moroccan Local Authorities are classified into categories depending on
their size.   Below "Provinces"  and  "Prefectures,"  local communities
comprise (by decreasing size): "municipalities," "autonomous centers," and
"rural communes."



Sustainabillity
8.       As FEC continued to evolve towards becoming an autonomous financial
institution, its organizational structure took on a more sustainable
character.   Under the project, the training of FEC personnel was a major
project goal. In the future, management training is expected to expand and
replicate current lending operations. During project implementation, it was
observed that tnere was a correlation between the technical quality of loan
applications submitted to FEC and the pace of loan and subloan disbursement.
The preparation of sectorial guidelines should also have a lasting effect.
A partial procedures manual has been approved and eligibility criteria have
been defined as part of a long-range strategy for FEC's eventual transforma-
tion into an independent financial institution.
Conclusions and Lessons Learned
9.       This pilot project had a decisive impact on:
(a)   resource allocation.   As a result of the application of subloan
eligibility criteria, FEC and some of the CLs can now better
determine which investments will generate positive financial rates
of return. Doubtless, the preparation and processing of applications
for FEC loans left CLs' managers with a good understanding of project
analysis and cost recovery;
(b)   human resources development.   Project-related  training made  it
possible for existing FEC personnel to form the core of a potentially
autonomous financial institution; and
(c)   poverty alleviation.  Subloans to CLs were granted to finance house
connections for water supply and sewerage, benefitting several
thousand low-income families.
10.      The following lessons may be applied to future operations of similar
scope:
The use of a specialized financial institution for lending to
municipalities and their agencies has proved to be the right approach
at a time when the financial sector in Morocco was still affected by
Government constraints and directed credit was the only way to
introduce financial discipline into a heavily subsidized sector
(municipal development). In the future, the liberalization of the
financial sector in Morocco should lead the Government to decide on
granting more managerial autonomy to FEC and on the best ways to
ensure that FEC mobilization and use of resources for the financing
of urban infrastructure projects responds to its policy.
Funds earmarked for the prefinancing of feasibility studies for low-
income CLs were invested wisely, making it possible to maximize
resource allocation (by increasing the number of beneficiaries for
each DH invested.)
Staff were continually and systematically provided with in-service
training. But it was conducted almost entirely in-house. Clearly,



- vi -
the training cycle and organization could have been more efficient
if specialized training institutions had been involved.
FEC should have paid more attention to subproject supervision.  It
should also have monitored more rigorously its pipeline of subloans
to the R6gies, particularly in the light of their financial restruc-
turing operations.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PILOT PROJECT FOR THE COMMbNAL INFRASTRUCTURE FUND (FEC)
(LOAN 2272-MOR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I. PROJECT IDENTITY
Name;              Pilot Project for the Communal Infrastructure Fund (FEC)
Loan Number:       2272-MOR
RVP Units          EMENA
Countrys           Kingdom of Morocc-
Sectors            Infrastructure
Sub-Sector:       Urban Development
II. BACKGROUND
2.01     From 1980 to 1982, Morocco's macroeconomic situation was marked by
a sharply increasing external debt.   This was generated by an ambitious
investment program when export prices, and phosphate prices in particular,
declined while the price for imported oil increased. Thus, the external debt
service on exports increased from 10.7% in 1977 to 35%, or US$1.5 billion, in
1982. For the 1978-80 period, the Govsrnment adopted a Stabilization Plan and
enforced rigorous credit and import controls.   It also severely reduced
expenditures through a concerted effort to decrease investments. As a result,
new investments declined from 27% of the GNP in 1978 to 12% in 1980. Internal
factors (drought, military expenditures, and increasing commodities subsidies)
and external factors (appreciation of the dollar, increase in oil prices and
interest rates) added to the effects of the Stabilization Plan, leading to a
1.3% decline in GNP in 1981, a Treasury deficit of 14% of GNP, and a negative
balance of payments of US$1.8 billion, or 12.6% of GNP. In April 1982, the
International Monetary Fund intervened within the framework of an agreement
that focussed on fiscal measures and expenditure restrictions.
2.02     When the project was identified in 1980, Morocco's population was
approximately 20 million, with about 9 million, or 40% living in urban areas.
Whereas most of the urban population was concentrated in six major cities of
the Kingdom, i.e., Casablanca, Rabat-Sal6, Marrakech, Fez, Meknes, and Tanger,
a now trend emerged in which mid-sized cities experienced rapid population
growth in response to the development of agriculture, light industries, and
services. To address the new needs arising from the shift in urban population
and macro-economic conditions (para. 2.01), the Government adopted a strategy
aimed at the administrative decentralization and a more balanced regional
development. Decentralization appeared as being potentially a major source of
improvement in public sector management by reducing the distance between
decisi..n makers and users of public goods and services, and giving a more
manageable scale to the delivery and administration of local services.



-2^
Decentralization had, hence, beyond the social dimension of promoting
political participation at the local level, an economic objective, namely the
improvement in the use and allocation of resources.   The decentralization
process had to be gradual. Consistency was needed between local needs and the
availability of means, and the State needed to ensure that essential
investments received adequate priority when decisions were taken at the local
level.   A Decree-Law of September 1976 defined the organization of local
authorities (CLs) and gave them greater responsibility for infrastructure and
public  services management.   This new  level of responsibility meant a
simultaneous relative increase in their financial decieion-making authority.
In this respect, additional decisions were taken between 1976 and 1980, iitter
alia, to reform the local fiscal system and to strengthen the role of the
Communal Infrastructure Fund (FVC in the financing of municipal investments.
However, decisions concerning th   ^cal fiscal system were not translated into
action until 1988. In 1976, how, ar, provincial governments were given the
responsibility for the distribution of Ministry of the Interior (MOI)
budgetary  allocations.    This  strengthened  their  authority  in  setting
investment priorities  at the commune level.   Previously,  the financial
autonomy of local authoritiss had been very limited, both because of the
weight of centrally allocated funds in local budgets and because of insuf-
ficient cost recovery when providing local services.   Indeed, budgetary
allocations from the Central Government to the CLs had been made through
various technical ministries for each project category and consisted of
(a) the redistribution of local taxes collected by the Central Government on
behalf of the CLs and returned to them and (b) transfers to the poorest CLs.
2.03     Decisions concerning FEC's financial and managerial autonomy and
institutional strengthening were gradually implemented. FEC was created in
1959 as a public agency to finance investments in infrastructure by the
provinces, urban and rural communes and syndicates therefore, and municipal
autonomous Regies (essentially for urban transport and the distribution of
electricity and water).  Although FEC was legally and financially autonomous,
it was, for practical purposes, a small department appended to, and adminis-
tered by, CDG (Caisse de Dep6t et de Gestion). It had a staffing complement
of seven in 1980. Decisions affecting its lending operations were taken by
the CDG Director after consultation with a Technical Committee composed of
representatives from MOI and the Ministry of Finance (MOF).  Its statutory
resources were largely public, i.e., rediscounts from CDG and the Central Bank
(BM), and whenever necessary, Government grants and subsidies or local
borrowings guaranteed by the Government.
2.04     In mid-1979, an ITter in^sterial Committee met to study and recommend
measures to expand the role of FEC as a major promoter and financier of
investment by the local authorities. The Committee recommended, in particu-
lar, that:
(a)   to increase its assistance to CLs both quantitatively and qualita-
tively, FEC should be administratively reorganized and should create
a Technical Unit responsible for the technical and financial
appraisal of projects, as well as for their supervision and follow
up;
(b)   FEC establish a Project Preparation Fund,  financed  from FEC's
profits, to prefinance feasibility studies;



- 3 -
(c)   FEC's financial resources be diversified and expanded in line with
the expansion of its loan cc-mmitments. New sources of funds would
be the BM rediscount facilities, bond issues, and foreign borrowing
with Government guarantee; and
(d)   the average maturity of FEC loans be extended from 8 to 12 years,
while increasing the interest rate to 8.5Z to maintain financial
equilibrium.
III. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.01     Project preparation took place in the background described above.
The project was to support the Govetrnment's decentralization policy by
assisting CLe in implementing primary infrastructure. In this respect, FEC
was to provide them with both financial resources and technical assistance.
It was presumed that by str'engthening of FEC's technical capacity, that
institution would, in turn, eventually be able to help the CLs design projects
that were both economically and technically viable.
3.02     The total project cost was estimated to be US$31 million.  The Bank
granted a loan to the Government in the amount of US$16 million, consisting
of:
(a)   a line of credit of US$15 million to FEC for the financing of
infrastructure subprojects in eligible sectors (to be specified in
FEC's Policy Statement); and
(b)   a technical assistance program of US$1 million for staff training and
the services of technical experts as well as experts on banking
organization.
3.03     The line of credit would be used for the funding of about 30 self-
financing subprojects. Prospective sub-borrowers were urban and rural CLs,
groups of CLs, and public utility and transport Rggies. It was agreed that
all FEC-financed projects, regardless of whether they were refinanced by the
Bank, would have  to comply with the same eligibility criteria defined
according to sector. The line of credit was limited to the foreign cost of
subprojects, estimated at about 50% of their value. With the exceptior. of
sanitation investments with unit costs below US$80,000, fees, user charges,
and taxes collected by the municipalities had to cover the total capital
investment and recurrent expenditures.
3.04     In this context, the Bank's strategy was to help strengthen FEC to
use the institution as a conduit for channeling assistance to the CLs.
Technical assistance provided by FEC to CLa in project and financial matters
was seen as a means to develop, at the local level, concepts of cost-recovery
and reduce accordingly subsidies from the Central Government.
3.05     The technical assistance component was designed to support:
(a)   the training of FEC's technical staff; and



-4-
(b)   consultant services.   It was envisaged that an expert would be
engaged for a two-year period. That person's assistance would focus
on: (i) project preparation techniques and feasibility studies on
small-size projects in particular; (ii) the formulation of subproject
eligibility criteria; (iii) the definition of financing and loan
recovery procedures; and (iv) project supervision by FEC.
IV. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
4.01     This was the second time (after Jordan)"1 the Bank financed municipal
infrastructure through a line of credit to a financial institution. To ensure
replicability of this financing, the project concentrated primarily on FEC's
institutional development, particularly its organization, procedures, and
staff training.   FEC management, with Bank assistance, prepared a Policy
Statement, which defined sectorial intervention priorities, cost-recovery
procedures, credit policy, and project eligibility criteria. The technical
strengthening of FEC would ultimately help CLs prepare and implement their own
projects.
4.02     The Bank considered this operation a pilot project in view of its
multisectorial nature, its innovative character, and FEC's inexperience in
investment project selection.   At the same time, the Bank and Moroccan
authorities envisaged that if FEC were successful in meeting project
objectives, it might eventually be granted full managerial and financial
autonomy.
4.03     Project preparation was carried out over two years.   The first
identification mission visited Morocco in May 1980. The project was appraised
in June 1982 and negotiations were held in March 1983 in Washington. The loan
was signed on May 23, 1983.
4.04     A number of serious problems had to be solved during project
preparation:
-   Moroccan authorities preferred to fill the technical advisor position
with a Mo=occan national, which limited recruitment possibilities.
-   To restrict fttture loans to revenue-generating projects, FEC's Policy
Statement had to be drafted and ratified.   Moreover,  since a
systematic cost recovery policy for the sanitation sector was not yet
clearly defined in Morocco, the refinancing of these subprojects
would have to be approved by the Bank on a case-by-case basis.
-   Water supply and electricity subprojects eligible for refinancing
would be implemented by ONEP and ONE, which were the only institu-
tions technically capable of preparing and carrying out these
projects at the time.
Jordan - First Cities and Villages Development Project (Loan 1826-JO).



- 5 -
-   To  increase  the  number  of potential  borrowers,  each  eligible
subproject had a ceiling of up to DH 6.5 million for loans to
municipalities and DH 5.0 million for loans to R6gies.
Subprojects submitted to FEC financing had to comply with eligibility
criteria. The criteria defined: (a) the eligible subsectors, i.e.:
water and electricity distribution, urban transportation, commercial
facilities, urban development, sewerage, and municipal roads; (b)
cost-ceilings by type of borrower; (e) the cost-recovery percentage
by subproject size; (d) the minimum internal rate of return by type
of investment; (e) the maximum duration of the equipment saturation
capacity; and (f) the minimum cash-flow expected in relation to the
investment programs of the R6gies.
-   To lay the groundwork for PEC's financial autonomy from CDG, interest
rates had to be increased from an annual average of 8.5% in 1982 to
10% in 1983 and 11.5% in 1984, and the Government would increase
FEC's capital by DH 20 million in each of the fiscal years 1984,
1985, and 1986.
-   The regular supervision at the mtnicipal level of EEC-financed
subprojects was deemed necessary to ensure the success of the staff
training program.   All projects financed by FEC (regardless of
whether they were to be refinanced by the Bank) were subject to the
same appraisal and eligibility criteria.
-   To meet institution-building objectives, an organizational chart
would have to be approved not later than November 1983.
4.05     Project design proceeded from the critical need to reinforce PEC
institutionally.   Its current organization was inappropriate for its new
financial responsibilities. Clearly, the project's success could be traced
directly to the high priority assigned to developing a strategy that focussed
on realigning interest rates to correspond to the capital market in Morocco
and the training of FEC staff to enable them to carry out that strategy.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
FEC Operations
5.01     Total subloan annual commitments increased by more than 300%, from
an average of DH 120 million in 1981-84 to DH 530 million in 1989-90, along
with FEC's increase in, and training of, its professional staff. Disburse-
ment, however, was much slower, as the CLs' absorptive capacity was limited
due to (a) insufficient training of local staff in the appraisal of investment
projects and (b) cumbersome withdrawal procedures, as municipalities are
subject to public expenditure guidelines. The sharp and steady depreciation
of the dirham in relation to the US dollar in the mid-1980s translated into
a slower disbursement pace than originally forecast; cumulative withdrawals
lagged behind appraisal estimates, up to 1988.



-6-
Financial Pestructuring
5.02     FEC's equity was to have been increased through three budgetary
allocations of DH 20 million p.a. beginning in 1983.  However, out of the
three payments expected from the Treasury (totalling DH 60 million), only two
were made, thn first one in 1985 and the second one in 1988.  Insufficient
equity not only increased FEC's average resource cost (see table below), but
also led to an increase in its debt/equity ratio from 9 in 1988 to 12 in 1989.
5.03     As covenanted in the Loan Agreement, interest rates on lending were
to have been increased to yield a minimum spread of 3%. In November 1986,
pursuant to an IMF request, the rediscounting facility at prime rate through
BM was eliminated. FEC suddenly had to rely on bonds issued on the national
financial market.   This led to a precarious financial position as CDG's
conditions for subscribing to FEC's bonds were similar to those on the
national financial market whose rates approached 11.5% (compared with 5.8%
within the B.M. rediscounting facility).   Following the Bank's repeated
request, in April 1987, MOF and MOI authorized a rate increase between 0.52
and 3% depending on the beneficiary. Trends in the resulting spreads were as
follows:
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Loan return           8.00    8.10    9.09    9.26    10.08   10.57   11.19
Resource cost         7.24    7.79    8.53    9.30    10.66   10.68   10.89
Spread                0.76    0.39    0.56   -0.13    -0.58   -0.11    0.30
5.04     Whereas arrears on CLs were insignificant, the arrears on reRavments
from th_ R6gies, since 1982, could not be covered because neither revenue nor
provisioas were sufficient.
R6aies                1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Arrears/
Outstanding debt       19%      12%    2.6%    9.4%   13.5%   23.1%         -
Provisions/
Outstanding debt
of regies             0.5%   0.86%   1.75%   2.07%   1.84%   2.04%   4.25%
5,05     Debt consolidation through substitution of long-term bonds with
short-term borrowing from CDG reduced the maturity mismatching risk. With an
average maturity of 10 years, the long-term debt rose from 28% of the
liabilities in 1986 to 83% in 1987.
5.06     Concrete measures were taken throughout the project life to increase
commitment fees and limit the negative impact of the interest-rate structure
on the institution's viability.



-7-
Funds earmarked for the prefinancing of feasibility studies for low-
income CLs were invested wisely, making it possible to widen the
number of potential borrowers. The committed amount for this use
exceeded DH 12 million at the end of 1989.
The serious risk posed by the R6gies' debt structure (especially that
of the transport R6gies) prompted debt rescheduling through the
consolidation of arrears and interest capitalization, as well as a
requirement that any future loan to a R6gie be guaranteed by the
responsible CL.
To restore F .C's financial viability, the interest rates on FEC loans
were increased in April 1987 and June 1990.   Compared with the
prevailing conditions of 1984 (i.e., flat rate of 10%), rates on
loans to rural CLs remained the same (i.e., 10%), whereas rates
applicable to urban CLs and R6gies were increased to 11.5% or 12.5%
and 13%, depending on the purpose of the loan.   However, these
increases were insufficient to compensate for the 4ncrease in the
resource cost in the short-term.
Institutional Development
5.07     Experience  in implementing the organizational and institutional
aspects of the project is summarized as follows:
(a)   The recruitment of an experienced and qualified technical adviser to
assist in reorganizing FEC and in formulating administrative
procedures took longer than originally envisaged; however, this was
offset by the quality of the candidate who eventually filled the
position.
(b)   The Operations Manual defined several procedures relating to the
institution's clients but did not consolidate all procedural
guidelines for FEC's operations.   FEC should have prepared and
distributed a detailed operational manual to all staff.
(c)   Staff benefitted from continuous and systematic in-service training.
But training was conducted almost entirely in-house. The training
cycle and organization could have been more efficient, if specialized
training institutions had been involved as specified in the Project
Agreement.   The Bank's missions repeatedly recommended such an
action.
(d)   In collaboration with the Bank, FEC established project evaluation
criteria for each sector and integrated them into the Policy
Statement according to schedule.   However, the criteria were not
always strictly followed.
(e)   Because of staff and other resources constraints, FEC was unable to
supervise subprojects effectively. It is, therefore, impossible to
ascertain the extent to which appraisal expectations for cost
recovery, a major subproject selection criterion for FEC refinancing,
were met.



- 8 -
VI. PROJECT RESULTS
6.01     Ninety subprojects benefitted from Bank assistance.  Eighty-three of
these were for CL's infrastructure and the remaining seven were for investment
projects carried out by the R6gies. Bank refinancing averaged DH 1.5 million,
or 42Z of average project costs. The main beneficiaries were 44 rural CLs,
followed by 27 municipalities, 12 autonomous centers, and 7 R6gies.   The
subsectors benefitting from subloans were:   commercial infrastructure, 36
subloans; water supply, 12; solid waste disposal, 11; and sewerage, 8.
6.02     Since 1987, FEC has restructured its liabilities and generated new
long-term resources through the i.ssuance of 12-year bonds paid at market
prices. Except for 1988, the resources provided by the Bank have been at a
limited level:
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
(DH million)
FEC disbursements p.a.       147    201    364    321    384    361    498
Bank refinancing             0.5    8.8    3.1   37.5   74.4    8.7    3.9
0.4%     4%     1%    12%    19%      2%      1%
Average Bank refinancing       -                    5.6%   --  __ __
6.03     Although the increase in FEC's lending rates have lagged behind the
increase of the resource cost, it is worth mentioning that two important
measures were taken in 1987:   the increase of the lending rates and the
suppression of the three point interest subsidy have brought FEC's lending
conditions near market level (see Table 13).
6.04     FEC staff, especially managers in charge of financial activities and
appraisal studies, benefitted substantially from practical training. The use
of office technology for project appraisal and financial projections made it
possible to simplify procedures, increase staff productivity, and develop a
better management approach.
6.05     This pilot project had a decisive impact on:
(a)   resource allocation.  As a result of the application of subloan
eligibility criteria, FEC and some of the CLs can now better
determine which investments will generate positive financial rates
of return. Doubtless, the preparation and processing of applications
for FEC loans left CLs' managers with a good understanding of project
analysis and cost recovery;
(b)   human resources development.   Project-related training made it
possible for existing FEC personnel to form the core of a potentially
autonomous institution; and



- 9 -
(c)   poverty alleviation.  Subloans to CLe were granted to finance house
connections for water supply and sewerage benefitting low-income
families.
VII. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
7.01     As FEC continues to evolve towards becoming an independent financial
institution for which new statutes are presently before the Parliament, its
organizational structure takes on a more sustainable character.  Under the
project, the training of FEC personnel was a major goal. Management training
is expected to expand and replicate current lending operations.   During
project implementation, a correlation between the technical quality of loan
applications submitted to FEC and the pace of loan and subloan disbursement
was noticed.
7.02     The preparation of specific procedures should also have a lasting
effect.  Procedural guidelines have already been approved and eligibility
criteria defined,  thereby preparing FEC  to achieve  a sound,  financial
performance.
7.03     The cost-recovery of municipal investments in commercial facilities
varies according to municipality. In some cases, the front-end fee paid for
the right to benefit from a retail or artisan shop fully covered investment
costs, even before the rent payments had begun. In other cases, new stores
were financed only after a period of two to three years. Municipal facilities
are subject to recovery through tariffs or the local tax system, in particular
since the approval of the Tax Reform of 1989 pertaining to the modification
of the local fiscal system and the extension of sources of income (e.g.,
users' rights, slaughter tax).
VIII. BANK'S PERFORMANCE
8.01     The Bank played a dual role throughout the project life.   As a
financial institution, the Bank established efficient refinancing procedures
even though the major depreciation of the dirham in relation to the US dollar
during the mid-1980s, combined with the Government's delays in transferring
the reimbursements received from the Bank to FEC, resulted in an average Bank
refinancing of 42% to 45%, instead of the originally estimated 50%, of the
investment value.  In its advisory capacity, the Bank continually provided FEC
personnel with assistance in technical and strategic problem solving.   In
particular, the Bank helped FEC prepare eligibility criteria for its loans and
improve its financial projection methodology, as well as its technical and
financial project  appraisal  procedures.    The  Bank  regularly  drew  FEC
management's  attention  to  corrective  measures  aimed  at  preserving  the
institution's financial viability.
8.02     Finally,  in accordance with  the Government's  plans  for  FEC's
progressive transformation into a municipal development bank (BDCL), the Bank
assisted MOI and MOF in preparing terms of reference for the feasibility
study, in coordinating outside 3sistance, and in making technical recommenda-



- 10 _
tions at each stage of the project preparation. The proposed (Bank-assisted)
project to transform FEC into fully-fledged bank was finally dropped in early
1990 in favor of a more modest updating of FEC statutes as a financial public
corporation. However, the bulk of the studies performed during the prepara-
tion of this project are expected to be used by FEC in the future.
8.03     The Bank has put constant pressure on FEC to undertake subproject
supervision.   It also has encouraged FEC to monitor more rigorously its
pipeline of subloans to the R6gies, particularly in the light of their
financial restructuring plans.
IX.  BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
9.01     Due to cyclical problems within the Treasury, the Government has
repeatedly delayed the reimbursements received from the Bank to FEC.  A
special account had i.ot been envisaged for the implementation of this pilot
project.  If a second line of credit to FEC is considered, advance funding
should be envisaged through a special account. Similarly, interest-payment
subsidies due by the Government, according to a program that was dropped in
January 1987, were constantly in arrears. Since the CLs had to bear only the
net rate, the Government had to pay directly the discounts (amourting to three
percentage points) to FEC on a quarterly basis. Even though new subsidies
have been eliminated, the Government continues to bear responsibility for the
current maturities of loans granted before 1987.  At the end of 1988, the
Govertment had accumulated DH 17 million in arrears.
9.02     The availability of a local project preparation facility against
future income from loans enabled FEC to prefinance project studies by CLe.
This fund not only helped the CLs define their borrowing needs but also helped
FEC expand its market and loan absorption capacity. If the currently proposed
follow-on municipal development project is not approved, the advance is to be
transformed into a subsidy.
9.03     FEC made good use of the technical assistance provided to strengthen
its organization.   Managers and staff profited from in-house training and
increased their efficiency. Both their and the new recruits' dynamism made
it possible to increase significantly the annual commitment volume in a short
time.
9.04     FEC's main weakness  was  its  failure  to  supervise  subprojects
systematically.  The department responsible for this task had insufficient
staff and operating budget.   The CLs did not submit all information FEC
requested for completed operations. Therefore, actual implementation costs
and detailed cost recovery are unknown.
9.05     The inability of FEC to address the supervision issue was due not
only to its lack of capacity but also to the reluctance of the beneficiary
municipalities and R6gies to be evaluated and controlled. The problem of the
R6gies together with the lack of adequate pricing of municipal services still
has to be addressed through future Bank involvement in the sector.



- 11 -
X. RELATIONS BETWEEN THE BANK AND THE BORROWER
10.01    Cooperation between FEC and the Bank was close throughout the project
life. A meaningful dialogue with CDG and FEC, together with both professional
and personal relations, were strengthened over the supervision period.   A
series of important actions having a direct impact on project success and in
particular, the institutional viability of FEC, emerged from decisions taken
by MOI and MOF.  The sensitization of Moroccan authorities towards various
constraints faced by FEC (e.g., need for interest rates high enough to cover
fees, recapitalization by the Government as shareholder, application of strict
eligibility criteria) laid the groundwork for FEC's eventual transformation
into an autonomous financial institution.
XI. CONSULTANTS' SERVICES
11.01    The consultants carried out their tasks to the satisfaction of the
Borrower. One expert spent two years helping FEC prepare the organizational
chart and procedures and train staff in banking activities. His assistance
was especially useful towards the goal of institution strengthening.
XII. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
12.01    The Loan Documents and Staff Appraisal Report proved to be useful
tools in project supervision. In addition, FEC facilitated the task of Bank
missions by providing access to its financial statements and technical files.
The Borrower made the necessary efforts to submit audit reports in a timely
manner in accordance with the Loan Agreement.



- P -
Unofficial Translation
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Comments on Part I
1.       Part I of the PCR covered the following points:
(a)   Project Identity
(b)   Background
(c)   Project Objectives and Description
(d)   Project Design and Organization
(e)   Project Implementation
(f)   Project Results
2.       The analysis contained in this part of the Report does not call for
any particular comments.   However, a few details should be added in the
following sections:
Project preparation (para. 4.04). Side Letter No. 2 to the Loan Agreement
referred to Morocco's commitment to make supplemental contributions to
FEC's capital, or to ensure that CDG would make loans to FEC at moderate
long-term cost, so as to increase FEC's own funds by annual installments
of DH 20 million starting December 31, 1983. In compliance with the above,
the Government made two annual payments of DH 20 million on each of the
following dates:
-     November 28, 1985:  DH 20 million
-     June 15, 1988:       DH 20 million
FEC operations (para. 5.01). The pace of annual commitments experienced
a sharp increase during the life of the project, matching, though on a
smaller scale, the strengthening of FEC's staff complement. FEC's staff
peaked at 49 in December 31, 1987, stabilizing at 48 by 1989. Since 1990,
following the departure of four professionals, FEC has had 44 employees.
The recruitment of replacement staff and of reinforcements (32 new
employees), designed to bring the total up to 80 by December 31, 1990, has
not yet taken place. Having acquired experience and expertise, particu-
larly in the use of PCs (of which there are 10), FEC personnel, although
reduced in numbers, have been able to increase their productivity and
output. The average rate of increase was lower for disbursements than for
commitments. This was the result of the time needed to prepare contracts,
issue invitations to tender, and have the contracts approved (approval by
the central authorities is required when the amount involved is over DH I
million), the funds being released in installments.
Financial strengthenins of FEC (para. 5.02)
(a)   Progressive increase in interest rates.  The financial difficulties
experienced by FEC between 1987 and 1989 were due less to the slow
increase in lending rates than to the rapid escalation in resource



- 13 -
costs, which came about in 1987 following elimination of the
rediscounting facility and consolidation of DH 800 million through
issuance of bonds at 11.5%.  Between 1980 and 1990, lending rates
were adjusted as follows:
-     for the rural communes, the rate rose from 6% (through 1979) to 8.52
in 1980, stabilizing at 10% in 1984.  During this period, several
rural communes were transformed into autonomous centers, sometimes
even into municipalities, thus becoming subject to the rates
applicable to such categories;
-     for urban centers, the rate rose from 6% (through 1979) to 8.5% in
1980 and 10% in 1984.   Over the period 1987-1990 the range was
between 10.5% and 13%, and after July 1990 it was between 11.5% and
13%;
-     for the R6gIes Autonomes, the rate rose from 6% (through 1979) to
8.5% in 1980 and 10% in 1984. Between 1987 and 1990 the range was
between 11.5% (urban transportation) and 13%, and then, starting in
1990, between 12% (for the same sector) and 13%.
The effects of the rates revision in 1990 are already being felt at the end
of this fiscal year, and should yield increasing improvements in operating
results over the next three fiscal years.
(b)   FEC recapitalization. The 1983 tranche was paid in November 1985 and
the 1984 tranche in June 1988.
(c)   Arrears on repavments from the R6gies.  It was stipulated in the Loan
Agreement that FEC would set up loan loss provisions reaching (no
later than December 31, 1984) 0.25% of the portfolio of loans to the
R6gies Autonomes not guaranteed by the State.   These loan loss
provisions were to be increased to 0.50% of portfolio by December 31,
1985 at the latest, and up to 1% by December 31, 1986. After 1986,
FEC was to gradually increase the provisions to 3%. However, FEC
actually established provisions in the following percentages:
-   1986:  1.75% instead of the proposed 1%;
-   1990:  4.25%, higher than the proposed 3% ceiling.
Prolect sustainability (Chapter VII).  The duration of FEC loans rarely
exceeds 10 years and never 12.  Except for vehicles, for which the loan
term is equivalent to the period of technical depreciation (5 years), all
FEC-financed projects have a life of at least 20 years. Without it being
necessary to measure the sustainability of a project's effects, we may be
sure that after paying the installmenta on the   respective loan, the
commune concerned will continue to earn revenues from the project for
several more years.
Proiect DesiRn
3.       This was the first time the FEC had received a loan from an
international financial institution, let alone from the World Bank, the
world's  foremost development financing agency.   This is why it was  so



- 14 -
important to obtain this loan, not for monetary considerations, but essen-
tially with a view to establishing a working relationship between Bank and FEC
staff. FEC staff would, therefore, be able to acquire experience, particu-
larly in the area of appraisal of viable projects for the communes, thus
giving them the capability to handle a specific type of project and bor-
rower.   This also explains the delays -- due to the need to take precautions
and also to take particular care -- that occurred during preparation of the
appraisal of the FEC Pilot Project (1980-1983). It also explains why so much
emphasis was placed on project design and organization.
Proiect Organization
4.       The project's main priority was the institutional strengthening of
FEC in the areas of procedures, organization, and staff training.
(a)   Procedures
(i)   Dreparation of the Policy Statement.   Based on the fact that the
FEC's areas of intervention were not clearly established in its
statutes, it was considered necessary to limit its intervention to
well-defined sectors falling habitually within its sphere of
activity, but excluding the financing of the Local Authorities'
buildings.  It is pointed out that an arbitrarily pre-established
classification of the communes' different requirements is imprac-
tical, since those requirements change depending on the level of
development achieved and the new responsibilities conferred by
legislation (communal schools, health centers). Lastly, it would be
desirable in the future to include in this statement the possibility
of supporting the training of commune professionals, to enhance their
experience through special internships related to the maragement of
complex projects; and
(ii)  rreparation of project apraisal _criteria.   This was  the most
difficult task for all the parties concerned, since it mainly
involved the adoption of technical ratios and the establishment of
deadlines for meeting the various requirements, to ensure that the
infrastructure was designed to the appropriate scale. The data for
the various analyses needed to be gathered from the communes, but
they generally did not have the statistics requested. It was thus
difficult to apply the project appraisal criteria at the start, but
this represented an opportunity for both PEC and commune staff to
familiarize themselves with this project approach.   The original
criteria obviously had to be adapted to make them compatible with
local conditions.   As progress was made with the gathering of
information, the volume of appraisal reports kept increasing, to the
point that it was considered advisable to trim their content. On the
financial side, the analyses relate both t, the commune budget and
to project viability, taking account, as far as possible, the
borrowing capacity of the commune concerned. Comments and recommen-
dations on financing terms for a given project do not appear in the
actual Loan Agreement, but are forwarded to the commune in the form
of a Project Agreement annexed to the letter that the loan has been
granted.



- 15 -
(b;   Organization and training of i3ersonnel
(i)   The Technical Adviser was hired following a very careful selection
process, which emphasized staff training and its impact on the
commune professionals in the area of preparation of loan applica-
tions. The operations manual and the list of procedures relative to
each function were drawn up.  Since preparation of the appraisal
criteria took up a great deal of the time of FEC's reduced staff
complement, it was not possible to prepare a detailed operations
manual reproducing the existing documents, which in any case are
assimilated by each employee during the course of his work; and
(ii) A new FEC organizational chart was drawn up in July 1986, with later
versions appearing in 1988 and 1990.
(c)   Staff training took place mainly at FEC itself and during missions
to the communes. The small number of staff in relation to the volume
of work militated in favor of providing training in the field.
5.       Project activities were not monitored systematically because the
necessary information was collected whenever funds were released.  However,
the monitoring that was done was always satisfactory. On the other hand, in
communes that have already received loans [and have applied for further
loans), ex-post supervision takes place, for logistical reasons, at the time
of appraisal of future projects.  FEC accounts have been subject to audit
since 1980; the audit reports are sent regularly to the Bank. The audits for
1990 are now in progress.
General Prolect Overview
6.       We feel that the project was largely successful for the following
reasons:
(a)   Institutional strengthening was carried out as indicated above, and
FEC staff acquired experience in the areas related to its activities;
(b)   FEC's financial strengthening also took place as planned, despite the
higher cost of funds. Fiscal year 1990 represented the start of a
period of sound financial management and surplus for FEC, which will
improve its borrowing capacity;
(c)   FEC  intensified  its  assistance both in the area of  financial
resources and in terms of technical assistance to the communes.
(d)   The notion of project cost recovery and of recovery in general, i.
now well understood by the commune authorities; and
(e)   The achievement of these resulto is made possible owing to the
constructive dialogue preceding client relationships, and to the
close collaboration between FEC staff and World Bank experts.



- 16 -
Bank's Performance
7.       Overall, the Bank's performance was positive.  However, a review of
the project implementation gives rise to the following comments:
(a)   A systematic examination of all the appraisal reports on a case-by-
case basis should no longer be necessary.
(b)   Bank  disbursements were made  generally  according  to  schedule.
However, in view of the small amounts of the PEC subloans, requests
for disbursement were seldom submitted to the Bank until a large
volume of project expenditures had been accumulated. It would thus
be advisable in the future to set up a revolving fund to facilitate
and accelerate withdrawals.
(c)   The FEC project was supervised by Bank experts, who always stressed
the importance of the success of such projects to the development of
our local communities.
(d)   The most recent supervision missions (those undertaken since 1988)
have worked on the preparation of a new line of credit.  The FEC
staff are very anxious to see the definitive appraisal of this second
line of credit completed as soon as possible.
FEC's_Performance
8.       FEC's performance under this project should not be dissociated from
its general framework of activity, both in terms of its intervention policies
and the appraisal of the technical, economic and financial feasibility of the
operations submitted to it for financitig. FEC, whose reform was decided by
the Interministerial Commission on November 10, 1979 and begun in 1980, in
parallel with preparation and startup of the FEC Pilot Project, has made every
effort to act in accordance with the principles of that reform, as enhanced
and supplemented by the covenants of the IBRD Loan and Project Agreements.
In the desire to make FEC into an instrument of local development, the public
authorities, in compliance with the principles of the reform and with the
agreements signed with IBRD, have made every effort to respect the Policy
Statement and mutually agreed eligibility and approval criteria in all of its
operations.
Proiect Imtlementation
9.       Despite initial difficulties, FEC's actions during implementation
conformed as closely as possible to the objectives of the reform and the terms
of the Agreements.   It may now be affirmed that the project was broadly
positive for the local communities as well as for FEC, which now tends fully
to assume the role of a municipal development bank.   The delay occurring
during project startup was essentially the result of difficulties linked to
the transition and changes experienced by FEC. The start of the Government-
ordered restructuring process coincided with project  identification and
preappraisal by the Bank experts.



- 17 -
10.      Two types of difficulties caused some hindrance during startup:
(a)   Internal difficulties:
-     start of restructuring (basic organizational chart);
-     start of human resource strengthening;
-     time needed to assimilate criteria and learn methods of project
appraisal appropriate to the wide variety of sectors of communal
infrastructure;
-     gradual establishment of new appraisal report outlines;
-     technical capacity of a staff still limited in numbers to handl, an
increasing work load and supervise the ever-expanding inflow of
recruits; and
-     difficulties of application of certain rigorous criteria.
(b)   External difficulties:
sudden increase in loan applications, following the missions of the
traveling Extension Committee;
difficulties encountered by the Local Authorities and RftIes in
establishing loan applications, since they were still accustomed to
the old procedures; and
new procedure for releasing loan funds in tranches.
II.      All these difficulties were overcome in 1985 and 1986, because of the
following actions:
-   human resource strengthening, with good results in terms of perfor-
mance;
-   recruitment of a technical assistant, who helped with:
the establishment of a new organizational chart;
the drafting of an outline for a manual of procedures.
the preparation of standard loan application outlines.
-   initial computerization of FEC through the purchase of a microcom-
puter under the technical assistance component of the Pilot Project
Loan.
-   familiarization of clients, thanks to identification and assistance
missions, with loan application outlines and project preparation
procedures.
-   advanoes to finance studies.



- 18 -
Impact of FEC Actions
12.      Both within the project framework and by its overall actions, FEC's
actions had beneficial and satisfactory effects in terms of helping to provide
infrastructure for the Local Authorities:
-     provision of water supply to urban and rural dwellers, which slowed
down the flight from the land;
-     contribution to solid and liquiA waste disposal up to the treatment
stage, with its impact on the environment and the prevention of
water-borne diseases;
-     contribution to the solution of the housing crisis, in restructuring
unserviced housing and in slum absorption;
-     opening up of areas to urban and industrial development (industrial
parks) with all their multiplier effects (e.g., mobilization of
public savings and leverage effect on the mobilization of private
savings, creation of permanent jobs);
-     incentives to encourage citizens to participate in urban improvement
works through neighborhood associations;
-     execution of commercial infrastructure to improve communal revenues;
-     realization by the Local Authorities of the need for cost recovery,
which has now become accepted practice; and
-     consideration of  recurrent  expenses  (maintenance  costs)  before
implemen ation of the communal infrastructure projects.
Conclusions
13.      In the future, these efforts should be encouraged and extended to
reach the maximum number of Local Authorities, thereby increasing the numbers
of beneficiaries. In particular, the following measures should be taken:
-     preparation of FEC project preparation guides;
-     preparation of a consolidated internal procedures manual;
-     review of appraisal criteria in light of the retrospective analysis;
-     simplification of appraisal reports, making them more concise;
-     logistical arrangements for the monitoring and more widespread
*upervision of FEC-financed operations; and
-     review of fund release procedures.



- 19 -
PART IIIs STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
Loan Number
and Title                            Purpose                        FY       Status
Loan 1528-MOR                   Help the Government finance the      78    Completed;
First Urban Development         rehabilitation and develop-                March 1984
Project                         ment program in the Butte
district of Rabat.
Loan 1944-MOR                   Help the Government finance the      81    Completed;
Second Urban Development        rehabilitation and develop-                July 1988
Project                         ment program as well as
improve municipal services
in Meknes and Kenitra.
Loan 2245-MOR                   Line of credit to CIH                83    Completed;
Third Urban Development         for low-cost housing                       January 1990
Project                         subprojects.
Loan 3121-MOR                   Help the Government promote          89    Ongoing
Housing Finance Project         development of housing for
low- and medium-income
households.
Loan 3122-MOR                   Stimulate housing finance            89    Ongoing
Housing Finance Project         activities and help CIH
improve financial position
operations.



- 20 -
Table 2: Project Timetable
Planned       Revised        Actual
Identification                                             05/80
Preappraisal                                               02/81
Appraisal Mission                                           06/82
Loan Negotiations                                          03/25/83
Board Approval                                             04/26/83
Loan Signing                                                05/23183
Loan Effectiveness            08/22/83       11/22/83       04/02/84
Loan Closing                  06/30/89       12/31/89       12/31/89
Last Disbursement             06/30/89       12/31/89       01/29/90



- 21 -
Table 3: Cumulative Loan Disbursements (in million US Dollars)
Ratio of
Estimated                                            Actual Disb.
Bank                 Disbursements    Cumulative   Actual     Cumulative    vs. Estimated
Fiscal Year           at Appraisal      Total      Disbursements  Total    Total Disbursements
Sep. 1982
Dec. 1982
Mar. 1983
Jun. 1983                                                                       0%
1984
Sep. 1983
Dec. 1983
Mar. 1984
Jun. 1984                   0.9           0.9          0.04        0.04        4.44%
Sep. 1984                                              0.04
Dec. 1984                                              0.02
Mar. 1985                                              0.02
Jun. 1985                   3.3           4.2          0.30        0.42         10.00%
Sep. 1985                                              0.28
Dec. 1985                                              0.28
Mar. 1986                                              0.25
Jun. 1986                   4.7           8.9          1.45        2.68         30.11%
19~87
Sep. 1986                                              0.53
Dec. 1986                                              2.02
Mar. 1987                                              1.00
Jun. 1987                   3.6          12.5          2.04        8.28         65.28%
Sep. 1987                                              0.76
Dec. 1987                                              0.00
Mar. 1988                                              2.86
Jun. 1988                   2.0          14.5          0.57       12.47         86%
Sep. 1988                                              1.46
Dec. 1988                                              0.58
Mar. 1989                                              0.27
Jun. 1989                   1.5          16            0.32       15.90         94.37%
1990
Sep. 1989                                              0.21
Dec. 1989                                              0.20
Mar. 1990                                16.0          0.49       16.00         100%
Jun. 1990
Date of last disbursement: January 29, 1990



Table 4: Proiect Costs and Financing
IBRD REFINANCING (LOAN 2272-MOR)
Distribution by Benefici.ary
Number of                     FEC Loan                  IBRD Refinancing      Average
Beneficiary                Refinanced Projects        Amount in M DH         in M DHin %  Refinancing in H DH
1.   Local Authorities              (83)                 (242.76)      (106.75)    (44)                  (1.29)
of which
-  Rural Communes               44                    84.98         38.35        45                 0.87
-  Autonomous Centers           12                    51.37         20.92        41                 1.74
-  Municipalities               27                   106.41         47.48        45                 1.76
2.   Autonomous Regies              17L                   (78.53)       (27.291    (351                  (3.901
TOTIAL                          90                   321.29        134.04        42                 1.49
Distribution by Sector
Number of             FEC Loan          IBRD Refinancing                Average
Sector                     Refinanced Projects       Amount in M DH    in M DH       in %       Refinancing in M DH
1.   Water Supply                     12                   43.40         19.32        45                 1.61
2.   Electricity                       0
3.   Urban Transport                   4                   55.40         15.92        29                 3.98
4.   Commercial Infrastructure        36                   79.18         37.17        47                 1.03
5.   Special Infrastructure            6                   15.89          6.68        42                 1.11
6.   Urban Development                 9                   37.15         15.22        41                 1.69
7.   Sport/Tourism Infrastructure   4                      21.62          9.64        45                 2.41
8.   Liquid Waste                      a                   51.70         22.29        43                 2.79
9.   Solid Waste                      11                   16.95          7.80        46                 0.71
TOTAL                           90                   321.29        134.04       42                  1.49



- 23 -
Table 5: Status of Covenants
Loan Agreement
Reference*          Description/Deadline for Compliance                             Status
LA 4.02             Borrower to review with the Bank and FEC capital                Complied with.
requirements and interest charged to ensure FEC's sound
financial position, by October 1, 1985.
PA 2.06 (a)         FEC to maintain and provide the Bank with records of            Complied with.
costs and benefits at regular intervals.
PA 2.06 (b)         FEC to prepare a completion report no later than six            Complied with in
months after the closing date.                                 May 1991.
PA 2.07             FEC to employ
(i)   qualified technical advisor to assist in               Complied with in
project appraisal and supervision, by October         April 1984.
1, 1983.
(ii)   technical experts as project advisors, by              Complied with.
October 1, 1983.
(iii)   technical consultants, by January 1, 1984.             Complied with.
PA 2.08 (a)         FEC to review each year with tha Bank its capital               Government in
requirements and interest charged to ensure its sound          default.
financial position.
PA 3.02 (a)         CDG to submit to the Bank a staffing plan for PEC, by           Complied with in
October 1, 1983.                                               1988.
PA 3.02 (b)         CDG to employ five economists/financial planners, two           Complied with in
engineers, and three technical aides; January 1, 1984.         September 1984.
PA 3.02 (c)         CDG to submit to the Bank the training program of the           Complied with in
department managing PEC, by January 1, 1984.                   March 1985.
PA 4.01             FEC to maintain detailed financial and accounting               Complied with.
records and retain for one year after the closing date.
PA 4.02 (a)         EEC to have its accounts audited each fiscal year.              Complied with.
PA 4.02 (b)         FEC to furnish the Bank with audited financial                  Complied with
statements no later than six months after the end of           generally within
each fiscal year.                                              several months of
the due date.
* LAt Loan Agreement, dated May 23, 1983
PAs Project Agreement, dated May 23, 1983



- 24 -
Table 6.1 Missions
Stage of   Month/       No. of      Dayc in    Specializations                           Nature of
Project Cycle  Year        Staff         Field        Represented               Ratings    Problems
Preparation       01/81         4           14       2 Loan Officers
1 Urban Specialist
1 Financial Analyst
05/81        1           7        1 Urban Specialist
06/81        5           3        1 Urban Specialist
1 Financial Analyst
1 Loan Officer
Preappraisal      03/82         3           14       1 Urban Speciatist
1 Financial Analyst
1 Economist
Appraisal          07/82        3           24       1 Financial AnaLyst
1 Loan Officer
1 Urban Specialist
02/83        2           4        1 Division Chief
1 Urban Specialist
Supervision        11/83        1           3        1 Urban Specialist          I
03/84        1           12       1 FinanciaL Analyst          1
10/84        1           8        1 Financial Analyst         2             Managerial
03/85        2           6        1 Financial AnaLyst         2             Managerial
1 Consultant Engineer
10/85        3           5        1 Deput- Chief              2            Managerial
1 Consultant, Engineer
1 Consultant, Economist/
Financial Analyst
03/86        4           12       1 Urban Specialist          2             ManageriaL
1 Engineer
10/87        3           12       1 Engineer                  2            Managerial
1 Economist/Fin. Analyst
07/88        1           7        1 Financial Analyst         2             Managerial
Project
Cospletion        06/89         1           28       1 Financial Analyst
10/90        1           15       1 FinanciaL Analyst
12/90        1           5        1 Financial Analyst
05/91        1           10       1 Financial Analyst



- 25 -
Table 6.2: Staff Inputs (in weeks)
Preparation      AppraisaL     Negotiations    Processing    Supervision   PCR   TotaL
FY81       51.6                                           6.5                              58.1
FY82       12.4            3.0                             .7                              16.1
FY83         .2           16.8                .1          9.5                              26.6
FY84                                                       .9             2.7               3.6
FY85                                                                      6.1               6.1
FY86                                                                      8.7               8.7
FY87                                                                       1.8              1.8
FY88                                                                      2.7               2.7
FY89                                                                      4.8               4.8
FY90                                                                       1.9              1.9
FY91                                                                              14.7     14.7
Total      64.2           19.8                .1         17.6            30.4    14.7   145.1



-26 -Table 7
Page 1 of 2
Table 7: List of Subprolects Loan MOR-2272
Loan data:  Original amount        16,000,000 US Dollars
Amounts
disbursed
by Bank
Categorv Description                                         Lin US dollars)
A-1              C.R. SIDI MOUSSA BEN                            26,877.21
A-10             MUNICIP. D'ALHOCEIMA (CHAUSSEES)                77,750.27
A-100            MARCHE COUVERT C.R. IFRANE ATLAS SAGHIR         24,984.17
A-101            MATERIEL ROULANT MUNICIP. MER-SULTAN           124,233.80
A-102            MAT. COLLECTE ORDURES MENAGERES/TANGER         224,176.15
A-103            VOIRIE-MUNICIP. TAZA                           333,676.17
A-104            A.E.P. C.R. SBAA AIOUNE                         57,116.63
A-105            MARCHE C.A. GUERCIF                            157,342.27
A-106            MAT. COLLECTE ORDURES MENAGERES-KHEMISSET       86,820.00
A-107            2 CAMIONS BENNE C.R. MELLALYINE                       0.00
A-108            HALTE ROUTIERE-VOYAGEURS-ESSAOUIRA             123,387.07
A-14             MUNICIP. DE KSAR EL KEBIR                       51,547.74
A-15             MUNICIP. DE TAZA (ASSAINISSEMENT)              349,219.31
A-16             C.R. DE MOUALINE EL OUED                         8,088.83
A-17             C.A. DE MARTIL (CAMION BENNE A ORDURES)          9,516.27
A-18             CENTRE COMMERCIAL SEFROU                       227,094.09
A-19             C.R. DE BOUARFA (ASSAISSEMENT)                 260,959.64
A-2              C.R. EL BOROUJ                                  52,795.99
A-20             VOIERIE C.A. FQIH BEN SALAH                     131,100.14
A-21             C.R. DE SOUR SEBT OULED NEMMA                   125,961.67
A-22             C.R. ISSAGUEN                                  118,903.38
A-23             C.R. LARABAA TAOURIT                           106,330.22
A-24             C.R. IZZEMOUREN                                 42,758.27
A-25             SOUK C.R. BENI ABDELLAH                         43,867.95
A-26             STATION D'EPURATION PISCINE A RHEMISSET         59,762.31
A-27             DEPLACEMENT DU SOUK C.R. BENI HADIFA            93,923.99
A-28             SOUR C.R. BENI BOUAYACH                         131,5.6.54
A-29             EQUIPEMENT SOUR D'IMZOUREN                      55,034.61
A-3              MUNICIPALITE DE TANGER                         104,573.69
A-30             EQUIPEMENT SOUR C.R. BENI BOUNSAR               28,683.29
A-31             SOUK TAMASSINT C.R. IMRABTEN                   103,451.69
A-32             DEPLACEMENT SOUK C.R. SOUALEM TRIFIA           390,797.55
A-33             EQUIPEMENT SOUK C.R. ROUADI                     43,629.34
A-34             EQUIPEMENT SOUK C.R. TAGHZOUT                   22,221.97
A-35             C.R. D'EL KBAB (CAMION BENNE)                    9,161.35
A-36             ZONE INDUSTRIELLE ELJEDIDA                     297,262.78
A-37             ZONE INDUSTRIELLE ELJEDIDA                     186,625.60
A-38             AEP C.R. AHLAF                                  33,891.62
A-39             COMPLEXE SPORTIF/CU ESSOURHOUR ASSAWDA         349,749.71
A-42             MARCHE COUVERT C.R. BOUMIA                      123,102.54
A-43             A.E.P. MELILLA                                  13,204.81
A-44             A.E.P. OULED ALI                                27,723.44
A-45             A.E.P. MOUALINE EL GHABA                        26,695.81
A-46             RESERVOIR 30,OOOM A SALE-RED                   569,794.13
A-47             MARCHE COUVERT A OUARZAZATE                     91,860.31



Table 7
- 27                             Page 2 of 2
Amounts
disbursed
by Bank
Category Description                                         (in US dollars)
A-48             MARCHE C.R. DE ZAGORA                          116,186.37
A-49             MARCHE C.R. DE TINEGHIR                         89,889.36
A-5              CENTRE AUTONOME DE TIZNIT                      320,120.84
A-50             MARCHE C.R. D'ELKALAA M'GOUNA                   61,270.09
A-51             ASSAINISSEMENT C.A. DE YOUSSOUFIA              389,904.92
A-52             ASSAINISSEMENT C.A. DE BEN SLIMANE             403,797.26
A-53             20 AUTOBUS + 60 MINIBUS-REGIE TRANSRABAT       542,397.59
A-54             RESERVOIR 25,OOOM AINTEKKI-RAD                 545,284.13
A-57             VOIRIE MUNICIP. DE TANGER                       64,392.25
A-58             EXTENSION MARCHE MUNICIP. DE TANGER             50,343.04
A-59             EQUIP. ORDURES MENAGERES MUNICIP. TETOUAN      281,859.90
A-6              MUNICIPALITE D'OUED-ZEM                        191,600.27
A-61             ANENAGEMENT FRONT DEMER-AGADIR                 274,081.33
A-63             MARCHE COUVERT-TIFLET                          296,744.82
A-65             RESERVOIR 3000M A BENI MELLAL RADEET           220,956.35
A-66             MATERIEL ROULANT-MUNICIP. D'ASILAH              56,979.41
A-67             CAMIONS ORDURES MENAGERES-RHENIFRA              40,210.67
A-68             SOUR C.R. TABARANT                              71,569.59
A-69             C.R. KHEMIS-ZEMAMRA ASSAIN. (IERE PHASE)       201,788.41
A-7              C.R. D'IRHOUD                                   15,550.04
A-71             C.R. BENI KHLOUG-AMENAGEMENT/SOUK TNIN         205,725.62
A-72             C.A. BERRECHID-AMENAGEMENT/CONSTRUCTION        370,740.94
A-73             20 MINIBUS PAR RATM                            404,312.39
A-76             MATERIEL ROULANT-RATMA                         575,678.30
A-78             LOTISSEMENT AIN EL ATARIS-SKHIRAT              203,100.95
A-79             GARE ROUTIERE TANGER                           420,861.32
A-8              C.R. DE TAHALA (SOUK DE SIDI ABDELJALI)        236,492.94
A-80             ASSAIN. MEDINA/ETUDE SCHEMA MEKNES             398,957.81
A-81             CAMIONS ORDURES MENAGERES - EL HAJEB            32,833.44
A-82             AEP C.R. AIT YOUSSEF OUALI                     287,950.46
A-83             AEP C.R. BENI-BOUAYACH                         154,920.62
A-84             AMENAGE14ENT SOUR C.R. BENI AMMART              72,014.56
A-85             MARCHE DE GROS - ESSAOUIRA                     260,765.91
A-87             MATERIEL ROULANT C.A. FQIH BEN SALAH            64,160.81
A-88             A.E.P. - C.A. TARGUIST                         196,341.63
A-89             TRANSFERT DU SOUR C.R. DEROUA                  162,691.47
A-9              CENTRE AUTONOME DE TAROUDANT                   258,615.99
A-91             AMENAGEMENT SOUR D'ARBAA C.R. KETAMA            98,291.90
A-92             TRANSFERT SOUK C.R. TLET LOULAD                163,403.48
A-93             10 BUS - AGADIR - RATAG                        301,524.54
A-95             TRANSFERT SOUR C.R. BZOU                        76,877.73
A-96             CAMPING-CARAVANING MUNCIP. FES                 476,184.05
A-97             TRANSFERT SOUK/CONST. FOUR-HAMMAM               88,404.76
A-99             CAFE ET ENSEMBLE FOUR-HAMMAM C.R. KSAB          71,746.23
FE FEE           FRONT END FEE .25%                              39,900.00
1                SUBLOANS, 50% OF EXPENDITURES FOR INVES              0.00
2                EXPERT SERVICES AND FELLOWSHIPS TO FEC         318,020.06
A-109            TETOUAN VOIRIE/ASSAINISSEMENT                  297,371.13
Total 16,000,000.00



Table 8: FEC Activity 1981 - 1989
(UnitU - million DH)
Year                  1981     1982      1983      1984      1985      1986     1987       1988      1989      1990
(1)  Coeituents
TOTAL         103.0    156,0    151.3       90.5    286.4    382,S        521.7      544,4   519.6       962
1.1 -jLocal Authorities                  6       t49)    (122)        (71)   (160)    (310)       (356)      (512)   (490)       (898)
o  Prefectures                    _-                            -       49       36         -           -         -         51
o  Mieipelitds                  34        12        83         40       60      217        291        301      307         488
o  CoiRsnes Autonomes            15       17        22         22       16       22         38         48       36         144
o  Coammunes rurales            25        20        17          9       35       35         27        162      148         215
1.2 -  Local Utilities                J(9)    (107)        (29)       (19)   (126)      (73)      (165)       (32)    (30)        (64)
o  Water/Power                   14       76        29          9       36       34         96          3        5           -
o  Transport                    15        16         -          -       90       39         42         10        -          38
o  Others                         -       15         -         10        -         -        27         19       24          26
(2) Disbursements
TOTAL-         88.       58.1         127.6  147,2   193,4    334,3       320,8      384,1   361,8       498
2.1 -  Local Authorities               (55)      (28)      (72)      (110)    (95)      (255)      (243)    (280)   (332)        (490)
o  "Prefectures'                  -        -         -          -       10         1B        29         7        a          21
o   Miu:icipalit6s"             38        13        44         74       57       198        167       194      175         334
o  "Coemunes Autonomes           15        6        17         21       13        19         24        37       30          42
o  "Communes rurales"            2         8        12         14       15        20         23        41      119          93
2.2 -  Local Utilities                 (33)      (30)      (55)       (38)    (98)       (79)       (77)    (104)    (30)           (8)
o  Water/Power                  18        17        52         37       35         28        50        35       19           8
o  Transport                     15       13         3          -       53        61         27        31        4           _
o  Others                         -        -         -          1       10          -         -        39        7           _
(3)  Loans Outstandinx                    494,8    469.3    514,0        570,2   674,1    939,7    1.139,4  1.380,5   1.575.1  1.875
(4)  Average maturity of assets (yr.)   11           11        10         10      11         9 _
Sources = Rapports dlActivit6s - FEC



Tab e 9: fEC Income Statements (19a8-1990)
(in M. Oh)
1981       1982       1983         1984        1985        1986        1987         1988        1989      1990
INcWE
Interest on Long-Term Loans        32.24       32.06       35.44       43.40       51.02       74.64        96.45      127.54      157.28      196.48
Interest on Late Payments           0.49        0.84        1.19        2.24        2.09        0.92         2.27        4.46       6.91        4.64
Interest on Loans to Staff                                  0.10                    0.10        0.15         0.19        0.23
Niscellaneous                                               0.10                    0.01        0.02         1.51        0.13        0.11        6.13
Total Income           32.73       32.90       36.73       45.64       53.12      75.68        .00.34     132.27      164.48      207.48
EXPENSES
Charge on Borrowings                 4.59       8.45        9.43        9.57       11.43       12.79        48.64      116.17      128.22      162.86
Chares on FEC Bonds                                                                                                                 18.00       18100
Fets on rediscou u                21.11        18.70      20.78       27.37       34.71       51.70        45.30       17.23       13.43        9.57
Total Expenses         25.70       27.15       30.21       36.94      46.14       64.49        93.94      133.39      159.65      190.43
Provisions for Risks                 0.00       0.00        0.00        1.14        1.09        4.87         0.40        0.00        0.00        8.01
NIscellaneom  Fees                   1.41        1.70        1.95       3.11        5.06        4.88         5.37        7.45        7.28        8.61
Total Fees             27.11       28.85       32.15       41.19      52.30       74.24        99.71      140.84      166.93      207.12
MET PROFITI(NET LOSSES)                  5.63       4.05        4.57        4.45        0.83        1.44         0.63       (8.57)      (2.45)       0.36



Table 10:  FEC Sources and Arplication of Funds (1981 - 1990)
(in N Dh)
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
A. StURCES OF FUNS
Sources of Funds generated bv Operations
Met Profit (Met Losses)                           5.63    4.05    4.57    4.45    0.83    1.44    0.63   (8.57)  (2.45)   0.36
Depreciation and Provisions                       0.08    0.08    0.13    1.35    1.31    5.10    1.15    1.53    1.74   10.62
Sub-Total               5.f1    4.13    4.71    5.80    2.13    6.55    7.78   (7.04)  (0.71)  10.98
Goverrnent Endowments snd Subsidies                                                    20.00   --       --       20.00    0.00    0.00
Sale of Fixed Assets                                                                                             0.06    0.04    1.13
Loan Repayment
Repayment of Advances for the
Financing of Studies                                                            0.13             2.11    2.28              2.09
Repayment of Loans co Staff                                                        0.23    0.23    0.28    0.55               1.07
Equity Repayment of Loans                        75.98   83.52   82.91   93.45   96.02   98.70  121.06  142.16  167.89  198.47
Sub-Totat              75.98   83.52   82.91   93.45   96.02   99.06  121.29  144.55  170.71  201.63
Foreign 8orrowigs4t
IBRO                                                                       0.55    8.81    3.14   37.49   74.37    8.66    3.95
IDO + USAID                                                                                                  1.60    2.93   73.61
Sub-Total               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.55    8.81    3.14   37.49   75.97   11.59   77.56
National Borrowings
in Bonds                                                 50.00   (0.93)      -       --           785.20      --   393.60  393.60
5-year Notes                                                                                          --   200.00       --
;ub-lotal               0.00   50.00   (0.93)   0.00    0.00    0.00  785.20  200.00  393.60  393.60
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS            81.69  137.65   86.69   99.80  126.97  108.74  945.82  433.48  575.24  684.90                          o
B. APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Release of Fuids
Loan Payments                                   88.80   58.08  127.63  147.17  201.35  364.27  320.80  383.28  359.48  496.28
Loans for Refinancing of Studies                                           1.00    1.54    0.46    1.88    6.01    4.71    4.92
Loans to Staff                                                                              2.81    1.47    0.86    2.10    1.47
Sub-Total              88.80   58.08  127.63  148.17  202.89  367.54  324.15  390.15  366.29  502.67
Reiwbursement of Foreign Currency Borrowings
IBRD                                                                                                         6.44   10.08   10.95
Other Borrowings
Sub-Total               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.44   10.08   14.47
Reimbursement of National Borrowings
Bonds                                             3.34    3.34    3.34    6.68    6.68    6.67    6.67   60.07   ES.06   86.47
5-year Notes
Sub-TotaL               3.34    3.34    3.34    6.68    6.68    6.67    6.67   60.07   60.06   86.74
Reifbursement of Short-Term Borrowings
Fixed Assets                                                                                   0.43    0.16    0.04    0.19    7.35
Interest on unpaid Loans
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS              92.14   61.42  130.97  154.85  209.57  374.64  330.98  456.70  436.61  611.23
NET DIFFERENCE OF WORKING CAPITAL                       (10.45)  76.23  (44.28) (55.05) (82.60)(265.90) 614.84  (23.22) 138.63   73.67



Tobte 11: FEC Balance Sheets (1981-1990)
(in H Dh.)
1981         1982         1983        1984         1955         1986         1987         1988         1989         1990
ASSETS
Short-Term Assets
UBnks w*d Cash                              1.48        2.94         3.66         5.11         2.94         5.70         8:96         2.68         4.29         6.44
Current Maturities                        81.83        81.73        91.94        94.15        93.96       119.67       140.54       167.17       197.70       233.18
Current Maturities
(LoOs to Staff)                         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.36        0.45         0.48
Maturities due on Short-Term Loans         23.70       34.70        37.17        57.85        57.06        57.63        87.08       122.03       165.08       169.09
Other Debtors                               2.21        2.99         4.61         7.5S        19.66        13.76        19.26        27.88        20.73        19.98
Stb-Totat                 109.21       122.36       137.39       164.72      173.62       196.75       255.83       320.11       388.26       429.17
Long-Term Loom                             494.76       469.32       514.05       567.77       674.09       939.66    1,139.40    1,380.52   1572.11          1869.91
less Cturrent Maturities                 (81.83)      (81.73)      (91.94)      (94.15)      (93.96)    (119.67)    (140.54)    (167.17)    (197.70)    (233.18)
Loans to Staff                                                                                                2.59         3.83         4.41         5.96         6.36
less Current Maturities                                                                                                              (0.36)
Lows for Prefinricing of Studies                                                    t.00         1.54         1.87         3.74         7.65        10.08        12.91
tess Current Maturities
Fixed Assets                                                                                                  0.43         0.45         0.38         0.63         5.61
tess Depreciation                                                                             (0.03)       (0.03)       (0.03)       (0.03)       (0.27)      (0.42)
Deferred Charges                              0.83        0.75          1.54         1.66        1.45         1.25        15.38        13.95        18.7'.       24.27
TOTAL ASSETS       522.97       510.69       561.04       641.00       756.74    1.022.84    1.278.07    1559.45         1 797.36     2114.16
LIABSLITIES
Short-Term Liabilities
Bants                                    407.35       337.41       385.18       461.66       552.22       800.32       203.67       261.51       140.42       41.69
Current Maturities                         3.34         3.34         6.68         6.68         6.67         6.67        63.95        69.91        97.36       124.40
Regularization accoumts                    3.71         7.49         8.93        12.32        15.53        27.27        50.27        50.00        70.76       84.58
Other Creditors                            0.00         3.16         3.07         3.36         1.28         4.75         1.78         4.72         3.95        20.11
Sut-Total          414.39       351.40       403.85       484.02       575.70       839.02       319.67       386.14       312.49      270.78
Mediuiw- rd Long-Ters Debts
- Sorns                                     46.66        93.32        89.98        83.30        76.62        69.95       863.28       803.21     1.143.15      1456.41
Less Current Maturities                 (3.34)       (3.34)       (6.68)       (6.68)       (6.67)       (6.67)      (60.07)      t60.06)       (86.74)   (113.42)
-   5-ye w  otes                                                                                                                      200.00       200.00     (200.00)
Less Current Maturities
-   1|10D                                                                           0.88         9.69        12.83        50.32       118.25       116.83      109.83
Less Current Maturities                                                                                               (3.88)       (9.85)     (10.62)      (10.98)
.  Other  orrowings                                                                                                                     1.60         4.53       74.62
Less Current Maturities
Sub-Total           43.32        89.98        83.30        77.50        79.64        76.11       849.65    1,053.14    1.367.15        1716.46
Provisions for Risks                                      1.14         2.23         7.11         7.51         7.51         7.51
Egtrity
Capitat social                            51.03        51.03        51.03        51.03        71.03        67.75        66.95        86.51       84.25         15.52
Equity on Loows to Staff                                                                                    3.29         4.09         4.53         6.78       81.91
Reserves                                                                                                                             10.97                     9.12
ret Profit                                 8.60        14.23        18.28        22.85        27.30        28.13        29.57        30.20        10.66        6.08
Accuulated Retained Earnings               5.63         4.05         4 57         4.45         0.83         1.44         0.63        (8.57)       (2.45)       0.36
Sut-Total           65.26        69.31        73.89        78.34        99.16       100.61       101.24       112.66       110.21       111.40
TOTAL LIABILITIES                          522.97       510.69       561.04       641.00       756.74    1.022.84    1.278.07        1559.45    1.797.        2114.16



Table 12: FEC Financial Performance Indicators (1981-1989)
1981       1982        1983        1984       1985        1988       1987        1988       1989        1990
LIQUIDITY RATIOS
Current Ratio                                    0.26       0.35        0.34        0.34       0.30        0.23        0.80        0.83        1.24        1.58
FINANCIAL tATIOS
Long-Term Debt/Working Capital Ratio             0.66       1.30        1.13        0.99       0.80        0.76        8.39        9.35       12.40       14.52
Debt Service Cuverage Ratio                      0.76       2.32        0.76        0.77        1.01       0.88        8.98        2.99        3.32
Foreign Currency Debt as Z of Long-Term Debt                                        1.13X      12.17X     16.86X       5.92X      10.67X       8.28%      10.01
IEIRD Debt as X of :ong-Teru Debt                                                   1.13X     12.17X      16.86%       5.92X      10.52X       7.97X      5.96
toxns/Equity Ratio                               7.58       6.77        6.9%        7.11       6.58        8.59       10.33       11.42       13.33       14.81
PROFITABILITY RATIOS
Gross inccae/Average Totau Assets                           6.372       6.85X       7.59X      7.60X       8.51X       8.72X       9.32X       9.80%
Financiat Expemes/Totat Assets                              5.58X       6.00X       6.8W2      7.48X       8.34X       8.67X       9.93X       9.95X
Spread                                                      0.78%       0.85X       0.74X      0.12       0.16X       0.05X      -0.60X      -0.15%
get Profit as : of Equity                       8.62X       5.84%       6.19X       6.212       1.97X      1.86X       0.51X      -7.42X      -2.43%       0.28
Net Profit as S of Average Total Assets                     0.78X       0.85X       0.74X      0.12X       0.16X       0.05X      -0.60X      -0.15%
Net Profit Margin
(Net rIncme as 2 of Releases)                6.34X       6.972       3.58%      3.002       0.41X       0.392       0.19%      -2.20X      -0.67%      0.07
Provisions as 2 of Short-Term Assets                                                0.71X       1.29X      3.72X       3.04X       2.352       1.93X
Met Profit before Taxes as X
of Average Equity                                         6.0Z/       6.392       5.85Z      0.93%       1.45X       0.622      -8.022      -2.20%
Growth Rate of Assets                                           -22         102         142        182         35X         252         222         15%        18%



Table 13: Lending Rates
1980   1984  7 avril   ler juin
Maturity      1980                   1987          1990
(in years)                 (1)                      (2)
1. Local Authorities
1.1 Urban Areas
-   infrastructure        (10)        8,5%         10%          12%          12,5%
-   construction          (10)        all          all          13%          13%
-   vehicles              ( 5)        sectors      sectors      10,5%        11,5%
1.2 Rural areas
-   all subsectors        (12)                                  10%          10%
2. "Rfties"
2.1  Water, Electricity        (10)                                 13%          13%
2.2  Urban Transport            (5)                                 11.5%        12%
(1)   Before Government subsidy.  This 3 point subsidy initiated in 1981, was paid directly to FEC, who
charged its borrowers only the net rate. This subsidy was eliminated on January 1, 1987.
(2)   Commitment fee of 0.75%.



- 34 
Table 14.1:  Accumulative Disbursements
Is
44 
4' .
I A  3. 4 6 6 7 a X   oi  1011   1l4 13 1bl7   18 9  20 Zl22   4  215 ZS27 (quarters)
anticipated              + actual



- 35 -
Table 14.2: Distribution of Loans Refinanced by IBRD
by Sector
(1 to 9, as listed in Table 4)
eo. -
70 -
Ll4  40
0
I0
g I                  , ,,s_7.
6 (11i )\i      / af
Distribution of Bank's refinancing by sector.



-36-
Table 14.3 Distribution of Loans Refinanced by IBRD
by Type of Borrower
140
lao
Ito
lgo.
44- .   
00
40
oo
C.k            C-fit          m             P7.               i
Pler Ct(= (I,
m0X4%



