Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4186-MOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MOROCCO
PILOT PROJECT FOR THE COMMUNAL INFRASTRUCTURE FUI
April 1, 1983
Industrial Development and Finance Division
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(October, 1982)
US$ 1.00  =  Di 6.25
DR  1.00  =  US$ 0.16
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BNDE  -  Banque Nationale de De'veloppement Economique
CDG   -  Caisse de Depot et de Gestion
CIH   -  Credit H8telier et Immobilier
CNCA  -  Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
FDCL  -  Fonds de Developpement des Communaute's Locales
FEC   -  Fonds d'Equipement Communal
ICB   -  International Competitive Bidding
LC    -  Local Commune
MOI   - Ministry of Interior
ONE   -  Office National d Electricit6
ONEP  -  Office National de l'Eau Potable
FISCAL YEAR
JANUARY I - DECEMBER 31



MOROCCO                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PILOT PROJECT FOR THE OOMMUNAL INFRASTRUCTURE FUND (FEC)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF OONTENTS
Page No.
I.  INTRODUCTION                     ..                .1............ 
II.  SECTORAL CONTEXT                          ....  2
A. Background                         . .                          2
B.  Local Administrative Setting                .       .          3
C.   Regional and Local Planning Process            .     .        4
D.  Communal Development Financing               .       .         5
E. Service Delivery Systems                   .        .           7
F.   Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy            .    .       9
G.   Cost of Capital in Morocco ..................... .            9
III.      THE COMMUNAL INFRASTRUCTURE FUND              .....    10
A.  Legal Status and Ownership                 ...    10
B.  Objectives and Functions                 . . .    11
C.   Management ......................................            11
D.   Policies ........................................    12
E. Procedures                        ...   13
F. Organization and Staff                   . . .    17
G.   Management Information System              .    .    .       18
H.  Operations and Finances                  . . .    19
IV.      THE PROJECT ..........................................    22
A. Project Objectives .....   22
B.  Project Scope ......... .    22
C.   Main Features of the Loan ...................... .           25
D.   Benefits and Risks .............................  .          27
V.  RECOMMENDATIONS                           ..                          28
ANNEXES
I.   FEC - CDG's Organization Chart
II.   FEC - Projects Appraisal Criteria
III.   FEC - Policy Statement
IV.   FEC - Projections of Operations and Finances
V.   FEC - Terms of Reference for Advisor(s)
VI.   FEC - Project File
This project was prepared by Samir El Daher and Frangois Ettori from the
IDF Division of the EMENA Projects Department.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






MOROCCO
PILOT PROJECT FOR THE COMMUNAL INFRASnHUCTURE FUND - (FEC)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     Tlis report appraises ttie Pilot project for the Communal Infra-
structure Fund  (Fonds d'Eguipement Communal) for a proposed Bank loan of
$16 million.  The FEC was established in 1959 as a public autonomous financial
agency administratively managed by the Caisse de Dep8t et de Gestion (CDG).
In addition to a small capital base, its resources, largely public, include
mainly discounts from the CDG, rediscounts from the Central Bank, and limited
local borrowings (bond issues) guaranteed by the Government. It provides
financing to the local communes (LCs) and public utility authorities for a
broad range of infrastructure projects in water supply and sewerage, elec-
tricity distribution and urban development, and productive facilities such as
warehouses, markets, and slaughterhouses.
1.02     The Government of Morocco requested in early 1980, the Bank's assis-
tance to strengthen FEC, and expand its role in regional development as a
financier of communal investment throughout the country. Several Bank
missions visited Morocco to review the Government's objectives and plans of
action regarding its communal development strategy, as well as FEC and its
proposed expanded role.  The project was appraised in July 1982.  In view of
the multisectoral scope of the project, its novelty in Morocco, and the
existing weaknesses in investment practices of many of the LCs and of FEC
itself, the proposed Bank loan is designed on a pilot basis, focussing on the
institution building of FEC through technical assistance to strengthen its
internal organization including staff development, and improve its policies
and quality of project financing, on the basis of rigorous operating proce-
dures and criteria.  If successful, this pilot operation could lead to an
expanded role for FEC, including eventually fulL legal autonomy and financial
independence, so that it can become a genuine financial institution for the
development of the LCs, able to mobilize on their behalf new resources to meet
their large investment requirements, and provide another source of finance in
addition to the central Government budget.
1.03     The proposed loan includes a line of credit of $15 million to finance
projects in the sectors eligible for FEC's assistance, and a technical assis-
tance component of up to $0.96 million to strengthen FEC's procedures in pro-
ject preparation, appraisal and follow-up. The capitalized front-end fee of
$0.04 million is also financed under the loan amount. The line of credit would
cover about 15% of the borrowing needs projected for FEC during 1983-86.  The
technical assistance component will finance advisory and consultancy services
to assist FEC in the preparation and appraisal of specific projects, to
provide training to FEC's staff, and to develop and implement new operating
policies and procedures.



- 2 -
II. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Background
2.01     Since the beginning of this century, Morocco has undergone rapid
economic transformations. Differences in natural factor endowments have been
at the origin of a growing concentration of population and economic activity
in the central, western and northwestern parts of the country.  In the past,
concentration of urban population took place in large agglomerations, mainly
along the Atlantic coast of the country's northwest. By the end of 1980,
Morocco's population was approximately 20 million, with about 8.8 million, or
44% living in urban areas, which ranks Morocco as one of Africa's most
urbanized nations. Most of the urban population is concentrated in the six
major cities of Casablanca with 3,000,000 inhabitants, Rabat-Sal4 with
800,000, Marrakech with 440,000, Fez with 460,000, Meknes with 335,000, and
Tanger with 285,000. A new trend has recently emerged in which the growth
rates of these large cities are lower than the overall growth rate of the
country's urban population, as many mid-sized cities have experienced fast
population increases in response to local factors such as the growth of
production in modern agriculture, industry and administrative services.
2.02     Regional economic and social imbalances remain substantial.  A study
on regional development in Morocco showed that the urban areas accounted for
about 80% of the growth in GDP between 1960 and 1971, while the northern
regions generated three-quarters of the value added in industry and more than
half the value added in services. Per capita GDP in Casablanca was 60% higher
than the national average while in the east, south and southwest of the coun-
try, per capita GDP only represented 74%, 55% and 50%, respectively of the
national average.  The primary school enrollment rates are five times lower in
the south than in the central region. Regional disparities can also be found
in public services, such as health, where there are 10,000 inhabitants per
doctor in the central and western regions in comparison to 20,000 in the other
regions, and in infrastructure, where the density of highway networks in the
central and northwestern regions is twice higher than the national average,
while in the south it is only 38% of the national average. While most of the
urban population has access to potable water, only 25% of the rural population
are provided with this service. About one-half of the urban population has
access to electricity compared to 6% of the rural population. There are indi-
cations that these disparities are growing. Since 1960, the per capita con-
sumption expenditure of rural workers has been falling. The consumption of
the poorest 10% of households accounted for only 1.2% of total consumption in
1970 as compared to 3.3% in 1960.  The limited success of the industrial
decentralization measures combined with the concentration of physical infra-
structure in the central and northwest regions tend to perpetuate this trend.
The Government has long recognized the growing regional disparities, and since
the mid-seventies has embarked upon a program of regional development which
includes further decentralization of the regional and local planning proce-
dures, and a reform of the financing of communal development. This project is
designed to contribute in part to this effort.



- 3-
B. Local Administrative Setting
2.03     The Government has delineated the country into administrative units
called "provinces", each province consisting of several local communes (LCs).
a)   Provinces are the overall key units of the local administrative
structure. There are now 47 provinces. Responsibilities for the
affairs of provinces are split between an elected Provincial Assembly
and the Governor. The Provincial Assembly which includes elected
officials and representatives of professional organizations is vested
with extensive responsibilities.  The province, however, has no
financial resources of its own and is entirely funded through Govern-
ment subsidies. The Province maintains a limited number of technical
staff to assist in identifying and implementing projects at the pro-
vincial level as well as at the local commune level. The Governor is
the Government's representative and reports to the Ministry of
Interior (MOI). The Governor has extensive responsibilities, among
which the coordination of regional delegations from the technical
ministries, supervision of communes and of expenditures financed by
the "Local Community Development Fund".  Further, as a result of
recent decentralization measures, the Governor has been assigned the
added responsibility of executing projects on behalf of ministerial
departments, in order to hasten the implementation of construction
works and in this manner avoid lengthy administrative procedures.
The MOI provides provinces with the personnel needed to man their
technical departments.
b)   Communes are the basic local government units.  Their role was
further strengthened through the enactment of the "Communal Charter"
in 1976. The existing 849 communes now include 763 rural communes,
40 autonomous centers, 45 urban communes called municipalities, and
the Communaute Urbaine of Casablanca. The key responsibilities to
manage communes are vested in the elected communal or municipal
councils. The commune's administrative structure consists of a
council, a chairman and local executive officials.  The law bestows
large decisionr-making powers upon -these councils, ranging from for-
mulating the communes' social and economic development plans to
approving the budget and establishing, organizing and operating local
public services. The communes' operating modalities in managing
local affairs and development are characterized by a strong depen-
dence on the MOI which funds the communes' capital budgets, routinely
subsidizes their operating deficits ancl approves all their borrowings.
The communes' functional responsibilities include the provision of
public services such as sewerage, garbage collection and street
cleaning, and other typical urban facilities such as bus stations,
slaughterhouses and markets. Utility services are generally deli-
vered through specialized public municipal agencies (regies). The
regies are defined by Moroccan law a-s i-inancially and administrative-
ly autonomous enterprises entrusted with the distribution of water
and electricity within an identified urban perimeter. The principal
criterion for the creation of a regie :Ls its ability to ensure proper



-4-
technical services and maintain financial autonomy.  Technically the
regies are well organized with separate departments for power and
water and a combined unit for administrative and accounting services.
Financially, autonomy is defined as the capability of the regie to
cover its operating costs from services (water and electricity sales)
and finance a large part of its development program without budgetary
transfers from the Government.  There have been also regies for
public urban transportation and for cold storage facilities.  Since
the creation of the first regie in Casablanca in 1962, the number of
regies has increased to 20, all under the administrative control of
the MOI.
2.04     Yet, the lack of resources and staff have hindered the development of
communes, particularly in the rural communes and the smaller municipalities.
The bulk of the communes' own resources stems from the urban and development
taxes, which, however, only cover about 50% of the communes' operating expen-
ditures. The gap between current income and expenditure of communes is
financed by the central Government's budget, as is the investment budget of
communes in most cases. Furthermore, the capacity of most LCs to identify,
prepare, implement and supervise their own investment projects remains
seriously limited.  The communes are thus dependent upon the central Govern-
ment (MOI and technical ministries) for technical assistance as they encounter
difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified staff. Most investment
works that are financed by communes are therefore prepared, and implemented by
engineers from the technical units of the province, with the occasional help
of consulting firms.  The Government is striving to provide more administra-
tive and financial autonomy to the communes, to further decentralize economic
responsibilities, with more active participation from the LCs and reliance on
their own initiatives for the preparation, financing and technical management
of their investment programs.  The implementation of such a policy will
require specific measures to strengthen the local administrative, technical
and financial structures.  In this context, and according to the Government
plans, some 400 engineers, 1200 technical agents, and 1400 administrative
agents, would be available by 1985 to start filling the LCs' estimated needs.
These plans however, even if achieved, would not be sufficient to fully meet
these needs. For the more immediate term, use of private consulting firms
will thus have to be increased. In addition, the MOI has begun to seek
foreign experts through bilateral aid programs to fill existing vacancies and
provide a source of training for local staff. Other mediumrterm measures
planned by the government to enhance local development relate to (i) a fiscal
reform, which is under preparation, to increase local financial resources, and
(ii) the expansion of the lending operations of the Communal Infrastructure
Fund (FEC) to the LCs.
C. Regional and Local Planning Process
2.05     The Government's concern for regional planning dates back to the pre-
paration of the 1973-77 Plan.  Although many institutions have been set up to
provide a framework for regional planning, the weight of the central Govern-
ment in the planning process was still overriding. The Central Planning
Department through the "National Commissions" identified the basic options



regarding regional development. At the same time, proposals for sector and
regional development were defined at the provincial level through the
"Regional Commissions". These proposals originated partly from the provinces
and partly from the communes which, every third quarter of the fiscal year,
sent to the province a list of investment projects known as the "Communes'
Wishes".  The "National Commissions" endeavored Lo reconcile the national
options with the provincial proposals by eliminating as many projects as
necessary to fit the budget defined by the Central Planning Department.
Further cuts were made to fit the budget defined by the Central Planning
Department with the fiscal year budget defined by the Ministry of Finance.
2.06     Although such project selection process generally followed the
overall priorities set out at the macro level in the national Plan, it did not
always cater to the particular needs and priorities of individual LCs. Thus,
at the local level, some high priority projects have been left out of the list
of investment projects to be financed in a given fiscal year, whereas unimpor-
tant projects have been kept on the list. To avoid such a situation, the
Central Planning Department has designed a planning system with higher degree
of local autonomy.  First, the local communes establish a list of local
investment priorities; the list will then be scrutinized and approved by the
Provincial Assembly and the Governor. On the basis of this list and the
framework of national and regional priorities, the budget limits are defined
for each province and commune.
2.07     The main change from the previous planrLing procedure is that the
"National Commissions" leave to the local goverrments the definition of
investment priorities at the local level.  The reconciliation between regional
and national options is done mainly through the definition of budget limits
for each province and commune. Since this planling procedure has been newly
introduced, and data from communes are still being processed, it is too early
to assess the efficiency of this procedure. Wnile the increased participation
of the communes in the planning process will enhiance the effectiveness of the
plan, the new procedure will face several constraints. First, the detailed
operating arrangements to implement these procedlures remain to be worked out
and applied by the local authorities; second, the local communes lack planning
experience; and third, the success of this procedure is very dependent upon
the allocation of funds which, at present, is still being decided at the
central level. Within this planning framework, there are several sources of
communal project financing which are described in the following section.
D. Communal Development Financing
2.08     The LCs have large infrastructural investment requirements.  In
effect, based on a 1979 survey of LCs' demands, the projections of MOI for the
5-year Plan show an investment envelope for all LCs of DH 12,620 million
($2,019 million) increasing from DH 1,943 million ($311 million) in 1981 to
DH 3,400 million ($544 million) in 1985.  These investment projections,
however, exceed the existing absorptive capacity of the LCs, particularly the
shortage of local administrative and technical staff, and were subsequently
revised downwards by the MOI to be translated into less ambitious investment
programs. These investment requirements would be financed under one of the



- 6 -
three following sources: i) the LC's own resources; ii) budgetary allocations
through the Local Community Development Fund (FDCL) and Special Regional Deve-
lopment Fund (FSDR); and iii) the Communal Infrastructure Fund (FEC). The
share of each of these types of funds in the financing plan of the LCs' annual
investment program is proposed each fiscal year by the LC and the province at
the time of the budget preparation, for approval by the MOI.  After budget
approval on a global basis, the LCs select projects suitable for each type of
financing. There is one criterion to observe: FEC's resources are exclusively
reserved to finance projects with a cost-recovery, revenue-generating element
for which allocations under other sources of grant financing have not been
made by the Provinces and the LCs, and after the LCs have committed all their
own resources and budgetary allocations. To finance operating expenditures,
the LCs depend on permanent budget resources which flow from revenues either
collected by the LCs at the local level or by the Central Government for sub-
sequent channelling to the LCs. Around 70% of these resources are from pro-
perty taxes collected by the LCs or the Central Government. The remaining
share is mostly generated from local excise taxes.  Capital expenditures are
financed primarily by Central Government grants from the FDCL and by loans
from the "Communal Infrastructure Fund (FEC)".  The size and stability of the
permanent resources greatly affect the development of the LCs, as they are
essential for the operation of their basic services, and as they also deter-
mine the LC's borrowing capacity to fund their capital investments, since the
debt service must be met through operating budgets. At present, the permanent
resources are still limited, and the Government is working towards a fiscal
reform which would ensure a more stable collection and redistribution of
resources. The main sources of finance for LCs are briefly described below:
i)  Local Communes' own resources:  This item refers to the LC's self
financing capacity.  It includes the local property tax (taxe
urbaine) and the urban vacant land tax levied by the LCs, as well as
the LC's income from ongoing revenue-generating projects.  These
resources are used to finance a share (about 50%) of the LCs'
operating expenditures.
ii) Budgetary allocations; In the Moroccan fiscal system, budgetary
allocations - made to LC's on per capita basis and on grounds of
specific economic and geographic situations - are essentially local
revenues which are collected by the Central Government on behalf of
the LCs and redistributed back to them. This is the case of the
"taxe d'edilite", a property tax based on rental income, and of the
levy on products and services,  They are not thus considered as
subsidies to compensate for shortfalls in the LC's income, although
an element of subsidy (revenue sharing) may be implied. Before 1976,
these budget funds were allocated to various ministries, to finance
regional or local development projects falling directly within their
responsibilities. In 1976, however, the Local Community Development
Fund (FDCL) was created to be the sole recipient of all these budget-
ary funds.  This Fund, operated by MOI, has received an initial con-
tribution of DH 1,000 million ($160 million), of which DH 400 million
($64 million) for 1979 and DH 600 million ($96 million) for 1980.
The Government has entrusted the provinces with the local distribu-
tion of these funds, strengthening in this process the planning and



- 7 -
financial role of the provinces.  Projecltions for this fund through
1985 are as follows: DH 600 million ($96 million) in each of 1982 and
1983, and DH 650 million ($104 million) in each of 1984 and 1985. In
addition, the Special Regional Development Fund (FSDR) established in
1973 to finance special programs in the most disadvantaged provinces,
had an inital appropriation of DH 300 million ($48 million), later
raised to DH 2.7 billion ($432 million). Most of the FSDR funds went
to finance small-scale infrastructure, in the fields of education,
health, rural electrification, feeder roads, water supply and
sewerage. The FSDR is no longer active as it has been overshadowed
by the FDCL.
iii)  The Communal Infrastructure Fund:  The Fonds d'Equipement Communal
(FEC) was created in 1959 as an autonomous agency to extend loans to
individual, and groups of, local communes, and municipal public uti-
lity authorities. Recently, with the objectives of alleviating the
reliance on national budgetary allocations in certain types of local
development financing, the Government ha.s decided to expand the role
of FEC as financier of the communes. FEC's financing share of the
total LCs' 5-year investment envelope is projected by the MOI to
increase from DH 280 million ($45 million) in 1981 to DH 800 million
($128 million) in 1985. These annual levels of investment appear
very ambitious when measured against FEC's processing capacity, and
have been revised downwards in the Bank's projections (para 3.33).
It is projected that over the Plan period 1981-1985, about 65% of LCs' invest-
ment requirements would be financed by the FDCL and FSDR, 20% by FEC and 15%
by the LCs' own resources and regies' internal cash generation.
E. Service Delivery Systems
2.09      The service delivery systems and the institutional setting relating
to water supply, sewerage and electricity, the main sectors of FEC's infra-
structure operations, are described below.
2.10      a.  Water Supply:  Water is scarce in Morocco with 6% of the
exploited resources being used for domestic and industrial purposes, and 94%
for agriculture. Production and distribution of potable water are assured by
different agencies depending on whether the demand is in urban, semi-rural or
rural areas.  The most prominent is the Office National de l'Eau Potable
(ONEP), established in 1972 as an autonomous public enterprise in charge of
development, production and transmission of water to the urban centers. It is
managed along priniciples of commercial undertakings, and has built up manage-
rial skills and a well-experienced staff in the technical fields to adequately
run its operations. It has also initiated development of water services
including distribution in those smaller towns where financially self-
sufficient regies could not yet be created. ONEP has so far received 3 Bank
loans.  Furthermore, the second and third water supply projects (loans 1724
and 2006 MOR) contain a program of house connections where the local counter-
part funds are made available by FEC. FEC is thus providing in the sector,



- 8 -
DH 35 million and DH 68 million respectively under the second and third pro-
jects. These two house connection programs, which would allow financing of
approximately 150,000 house connections, are now in operation.  They cover the
low income population in medium and large cities of Morocco and have the
support of the local authorities.
2.11     The r6gies assure water distribution in about 30 urban agglomerations
that comprise more than 75% of the urban and semi-rural population. Water
distribution for the remaining urban population is generally assured by ONEP
and occasionally by a municipal water service.  In the administratively char-
tered semi-rural centers, with about 1.5 million inhabitants (1980), water
services are operated by ONEP, while, in the unchartered rural centers with a
population of about 11 million, operation and maintenance of the water systems
are assured by the communes which can call upon the technical services at the
provincial level for assistance. This arrangement, though adequately con-
ceived, still needs strengthening to ensure that these rural systems are
properly designed and operated.
2.12     b.  Sewerage%  Sewerage exists in all of the mediumrsized and large
cities.  As the systems have not been extended to keep up with the rapid
growtll of population and industry, they are presently insufficient. In the
coastal communities, most of the collection systems discharge at the shore-
line, causing contamination of coastal waters and beach pollution.  Sewerage
collection and disposal is presently assured by municipal services. A special
commission within the MOI is in charge of supervising studies for the cons-
truction and operation of sewerage, including sewage treatment. Studies for a
number of urban areas are presently under preparation. In the past, operation
and maintenance have been unsatisfactory due to a lack of adequate institu-
tions and a shortage of trained staff.  Furthernore, a clear cost-recovery
policy is not yet formalized in the sewerage sector.  The Government is now
taking measures to ensure that future sewerage operations will be entrusted to
the regies, presently only in charge of water and electricity distribution,
while the question of cost-recovery is also under study. These issues are
being addressed under the first Bank proposed sewerage project in Morocco, now
in preparation.
2.13     c.  Rural Electrification%  Increasing the rural population's access
to electricity has been an important objective of the Government's rural deve-
lopment plans.  Since 1950, the rural electrification program connected over
460 centers to the public grid and installed small generators and rudimentary
distribution networks in remote centers. Progress of the program has been
slow, because of its total dependence on the availability of public funds.
The weaknesses have however been improved as a result of the reorganization of
the flow of funds to the program and the strengthening of the staffing and
planning capabilities of the implementing agency, the Office National d'Elec-
tricite (ONE) (para 2.14) and of the MOI.  In the phase spanning over the
period 1980-83, the village electrification program would extend electric
service to about 220 village Centers with about 350,000 potential beneficia-
ries. These are financed by the MOI from its budget for municipal equipment,
and by FEC. Daily operation is ensured by local authorities while maintenance
is entrusted to ONE.  ONE has also been the recipient of Bank loans.



-9-
2.14     While the Ministry of Energy and Mines has broad power for the over-
all development planning of the Energy Sector, tnd has administrative control
over ONE, responsible for most of the electricity generated in Morocco, the
MOI supervises the overall performance of the r6gies responsible for the dis-
tribution of electricity in the large urban areas.  The MOI participates in
formulating the plans for the development of in rastructural facilities inclu-
ding village electrification in the rural areas, and heads the commission for
rural electrification composed of representatives from the Ministries of
Energy, Agriculture, Finance, Housing and Plann:ing and ONE. The commission
has been responsible for defining the Governmentl's yearly programs for village
electrification, the implementation of which was entrusted to ONE. ONE's
overall performance has been satisfactory and its technical standards for
construction and operations are good. It has regional offices responsible for
the operation and maintenance of the distribution network including rural
distribution.
F.  Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy
2.15     The Bank's lending strategy in the basic infrastructure and urban
development sectors aims essentially at supporting the Government's objectives
of improving the efficiency of existing investments, extending services to
rural and low-income urban groups and promoting more balanced regional deve-
lopment through more equitable distribution of public services and facilities.
The Bank is already involved in providing financial and technical assistance
for the development of local infrastructure and social services in Morocco
through urban development projects in Rabat (FY 1978) and Meknes-Kenitra
(FY 1981); a rural electrification project (FY 1979) to help bring power to
over a hundred small towns and villages; water supply projects (FY79, FY81) to
provide access to safe water in small towns and semi-rural areas; highway
projects to support the Government's road maintenance efforts and to improve
rural access roads (FY80 and FY83); and a housing finance project for low-
income housing through the CIH (FY83).  In addition, a project to upgrade the
sewerage system in Casablanca is under appraisal. The proposed FEC project
would widen the distribution of infrastructure and services and, above all,
strengthen the capacity of local communes to prepare and implement their own
development programs.  This will be the first multisectoral project dealing
simultaneously with financial and technical assistance to LCs.
G. Cost of Capital in Morocco
2.16     The Government determines interest rate ceilings for financial insti-
tutions on both deposits and loans. Following an interest rate increase in
October 1980, the rates were again revised upward in April 1982 in consulta-
tion with the IMF.  The latest revision led, on average, to an interest rate
increase of one percent on term deposits, while lending rates were raised by
2% to reflect the higher costs of borrowing by financial institutions as well
as higher inflation. The recent restructuring is expected to further the
trend of increase in term deposits which grew by 26% in 1980 and 1981.  Rates
on local currency deposits with commercial banks vary widely depending on
maturities.  Thus, sight aeposits yield no interest, except for workers'
remittances (3% p.a.) and insurance company funds (4% p.a.), while time



- 10 -
deposits yield from 4.5% p.a. for one-month deposits, to 10.5% for eighteen-
month deposits with no official ceiling for deposits maturing beyond eighteen
months.  The cost of Central Bank rediscount facilities ranges from 4% in the
case of commercial paper for agriculture, to 5% for medium-term paper, with a
7/. basic rediscount rate. Local currency bonds, which can only be issued by
specialized financial institutions (CIH, BNDE, FEC, CNCA) and large public
enterprises, carry interest of up to 11.5. p.a.  External borrowings by spe-
cialized institutions must be approved by the Government which usually assumes
the attached foreign exchange risk. With regard to lending rates, the maximum
rates charged by commercial banks on rediscountable loans were increased in
April 1982 from 9% to 10% p.a. for short-term  loans, and from 10% to 11% for
medium-term loans, while long-term loans (BNDE and CIi) now carry nominal
rates from 14% to 15% p.a. However, taking into account the interest subsi-
dies provided by the various investment codes (Industry, Tourism, etc.) and
the indirect taxes charged on interest payments, the effective cost of
borrowing for industrial customers falls to 11% in the case of rediscountable
medium-term loans from commercial banks, and to 14% for BNDE loans.
2.17     Inflation, as measured by the cost-of-living index, remained below
10% during the period 1978-1980.  Inflationary pressures, however, developed
in 1981 when inflation rate exceeded 13.2%, and is estimated at 13% for 1982,
11% in 1983 and 9% in 1984.  Thus, with the exception of 1981, interest rates
have been positive in real terms over the past five years and, in light of the
lending rate increases of April 1982, are expected to remain positive as of
1983.
III. THE COMMUNAL INFRASTRUCTURE FUND
A. Legal Status and Ownership
3.01     The Communal Infrastructure Fund (FEC) is a public institution with
legal status and financial autonomy, established by Law No. 1-59-169 of
June 13, 1959, as amended by Decree No. 929-66 of March 2, 1967.  Its adminis-
trative and financial management is entrusted to the Caisse de D4pat et de
Gestion (CDG). FEC was initially managed as a division of CDG and, since
1980, as a department.  As such, FEC has no proven track record of its own,
and its image and creditworthiness are strongly linked to CDG's. With an
equity capital, including retained earnings, of DH 65 million ($10.4 million)
at the end of 1981, its resources so far include discounts from the CDG and
rediscounts from the Central Bank of Morocco, as well as Government grants and
local borrowings (bonds) guaranteed by the Government.  It enjoys, however,
autonomous financial status, as its accounts are separate from those of CDG,
and can borrow with Government guarantee.
3.02     The CDG was established in 1959 as an autonomous public institution
with the objective of managing various public funds and deposits received as
administrative and judiciary consignments, or as collateral payments for gua-
rantees.  It also administers, in addition to the FEC, the National Insurance
and Retirement Fund.  CDG's resources include deposits  from the National
Savings Fund, the Pension Fund, various mutualist societies, and agricultural
and handicraft cooperatives. The interest rates it pays on deposits are fixed



- 11 
by the Government.  CDG's operations cover various sectors and activities,
including housing, tourism, industry, transportation, insurance, and communal
development for which it extends financing mainly in the form of equity and
bond subscriptions.  Its total assets amounted to DH 3,510 million ($562
million) in 1980, and DH 3,946 million ($631 million) in 1981. CDG is headed
by a General Director who is appointed by dahir, and holds broad executive
powers. A "Supervisory Commission" is also set up under the provisions of the
law, mainly to exercise financial control over CDG's operations and adminis-
trative expenditures. It is consulted by the General Director on general
policy matters.  The "Commission" consists of two members of Morocco's Supreme
Court, the Ministers of Economy and Finance, and the Governor of the Central
Bank. CDG has also a General Secretary who mainly follows on administrative
matters, and a General Cashier who oversees financial affairs.  They are both
appointed by decrees. CDG is a well managed and profitable institution with
well trained staff. CDG's organization chart is given in Annex I. Documents
on CDG's organization, operations and finances are available in the Project
File.
B. Objectives and Functions
3.03     In support of the Government's policy oE regional development, the
principal objective of FEC is to assist the LCs in their efforts to fulfill
their basic infrastructural needs by channelling resources for their develop-
ment projects.  Thus, it provides loans for the financing of infrastructure
works and productive facilities, to the prefectures and provinces, the urban
and rural communes as well as to their associatiDns (syndicats) and public
utility authorities (regies). FEC may also channel to these entities, funds
it manages on behalf of the Government. As an arm of Government and financier
of the LCs, FEC's activities fall within the framework of national, regional
and sectoral priorities established by the Government. In the past, most of
FEC's lending benefitted the wealthiest regions and the large cities. Recent-
ly, with the objective of reaching further down the provincial level and of
slowly reducing the role of national budgetary allocations in certain types of
local development projects, the Government has decided to expand the role of
FEC as financier of the local communes with a special focus on less developed
ones.
C. Management
3.04     FEC is managed by CDG, and in practice FEC's chief executive is the
General Director of the CDG. He holds substantial control over the policy and
operations of FEC and is involved, through loan approvals, in FEC's daily
management. Furthermore, as head of CDG - the main supplier of resources to
FEC - he practically retains overall control on FEC's financial policy. In
addition, the administrative tasks for FEC (recruitment, payroll, staff
regulations, benefits, etc.) fall within the responsibilities of CDG.
3.05     The Director responsible for FEC - a department director in the CDG -
reports to the General Director through CDG's Secretary General. He has,
however, responsibility for internal processing of work, namely the organiza-
tion of work teams, study of financing requests, follow-up on loan



- 12 -
disoursements and repayments, and preparation of budget. The Director of the
FEC Unit is knowledgeable in administrative, public finance and local commune
matters.  Throughout the long period of preparation of the Bank loan, he has
been closely involved in the project design, had a valuable exposure to Bank's
operating methods, and become a strong advocate of their application by FEC.
Moreover, in the context of the Bank project, the management of FEC will be
strengthened by availing, for 2 years, the services of one or more advisors
(para 4.06) who - though mainly concerned with project analysis and staff
training - would also assist FEC in streamlining internal procedures, and
developing a management information system.  The appointment of the technical
advisor(s) responsible for project appraisal and supervision, with terms of
reference, qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank is a condition
of Loan effectiveness.
D. Policies
3.06     At present, FEC lacks formalized policies and operating procedures,
which limits its potential impact on the quality of the LCs' projects. FEC's
annual project pipeline is selected from a list of projects which had been
proposed by the communes, and approved by the MOI for possible FEC financing
(para 2.08) . Thus, it lends to projects in two categories:  i) projects, the
cost of which may be directly and fully recovered from their operating reve-
nues, such as markets, storage facilities, refrigerated warehouses, slaughter-
houses, bus terminals, and r6gies' projects in electricity and water distribu-
tion; and ii) projects, the cost of which may be recovered either indirectly
or partially because of their social/collective nature, through users' charges
or taxes; these are projects related to rural water supply and distribution,
rural electrification, public transportation, sewerage, streets, etc., under
the responsibility of the local governments or autonomous public utility
authorities.
3.07     A Statement of Policy was drafted in consultation with the Bank,
spelling out FEC's operational and lending policies, providing the list of
projects eligible for FEC's assistance and referring to the specific appraisal
criteria (Annex II) prepared by the relevant Projects Divisions in the Bank
applicable to FEC assisted projects in each sector.  The Statement of Policy
(Annex III) was approved by CDG and the Government on March 16, 1983.
3.08     With regard to FEC's operating and project financing criteria, the
Policy Statement provides that FEC's activities fall within the framework of
national, regional and sectoral plans and priorities established by the
Government. Projects would be financed on the basis of their social merit,
economic priority, financial viability and technical performance, according to
criteria adopted in each sector and agreed with the Bank. FEC would also
provide, to the extent possible, technical assistance to its borrowers in the
preparation and execution of their projects, and ensure during project imple-
mentation that funds are used in accordance with the objectives and conditions
agreed to in the respective loans. Furthermore, in line with the Government's
plans to intensify assistance to the less endowed rural communes, FEC would
assign priority to smaller projects (requiring loans of less than DH 6.5
million (Ol million)).



- 13 -
3.09     With regard to its operational policy, EEC would continue to extend
financial aid to the LCs in the form of medium and long-term loans, with matu-
rities determined in accordance with the requireraents of the projects.  The
borrower's financial capacity may also be taken into account.  The maturities,
however, would not exceed 15 years, including grace periods of up to 3 years.
FEC may also manage on behalf of the Government, funds earmarked to the LCs
for specific development projects.
3.10     Finally, FEC's financial policy aims at developing its borrowing
capacity to meet the LC's needs, consolidating ils financial base, increasing
its reserves and setting up adequate provisions on its unsecured (regies')
portfolio. Thus the interest rates on FEC's loans would be function of the
cost of its borrowed resources, with an adequate spread (about 3%) ensuring
FEC's financial viability.  In addition, FEC would charge a commitment fee of
up to 1% p.a. on the undisbursed portion of its commitments.
E. Procedures
3.11     FEC has yet to formulate operating principles for project financing,
on the basis of rigorous preparation, appraisal and supervision standards and
criteria.  Decisions on lending had so far been mnade on the basis of infor-
mally established operating principles and cursory appraisals of the projects'
technical and financial feasibility. Project preparation and implementation
are essentially carried out by the local governments and the personnel of the
technical ministries seconded to the provinces. Little supervision has been
done so far by FEC to follow-up on its assisted projects.  The content and
quality of FEC's appraisals in all sectors could, in general, despite a noti-
ceable recent effort, be substantially improved.  The reports often lack
demand analysis and justifications for size and capacity. The financial
analysis is generally incomplete and suffers from the absence of reliable
estimates of revenues and operating costs.
3.12     A main focus of the proposed loan is to assist FEC in setting up
coherent operating procedures, particularly with. respect to project financing,
where the modalities of FEC's interventions, from receipt of financing
requests to project approvals and supervision, should be formalized. These
tasks have already been initiated during the preparation of the proposed
loan.  The agreed procedures would be completed and incorporated in an ope-
rational manual, to be prepared with the assistance of an advisor (para 4.06),
detailing all the steps of project cycle. More specifically, the strengthen-
ing of FEC's procedures with respect to project financing relates to project
preparation, appraisal and supervision.
3.13     Project Preparation:  The assistance of FEC to LCs in project prepa-
ration should be stepped up. Given however FEC's limited staffing and expe-
rience, its activity in this respect, during the implementation period of the
Bank's project, should mainly revolve around the intervention of technical
consultants (firms or individuals) who would review and complete feasibility
studies for projects in various sectors. With respect to planning and project
selection, FEC, as an arm of Government for local development finance, is
cognizant of the planning mechanism and rationale for project selection at the



- 14 -
regional and local levels though it has formally no role therein.  Nonethe-
less, in the course of project appraisal, FEC satisfies itself that its
financing is being extended to high priority projects, consistent with the
national, regional and sectoral development plans. In particular, consistency
with existing sectoral master plans established by the relevant public agen-
cies in each of the water supply, sewerage, electricity, and transportation
sectors, is a salient concern under FEC's appraisals (para 3.14).  A request
for project financing by a commune may thus be rejected when justification is
dubious as to the project priority among the investment options open to the
commune. Moreover, the mechanism through which FEC would ensure that its
assisted projects respond to regional and local priorities, would be further
developed as FEC strengthens its institutional capabilities, expands its role
in the provision of technical assistance to the LCs, increases the number and
volume of its operations and deepens its knowledge of the LCs' conditions and
requirements.
3.14     Project Appraisal;  To guide its future lending activities, FEC has
formulated with Bank's assistance a set of eligibility and appraisal criteria
with detailed guidelines and procedures applicable to water supply, sewerage,
electricity, road, urban transportation, urban development and productive pro-
jects (Annex II). Particular emphasis has been given to the appropriateness
of the project's design and standards, its cost-recovery capacity, its finan-
cial viability and, where relevant, its justification vis-a-vis the financial
position of the borrowing LC.  Satisfactory arrangements by the borrowers for
project implementation and subsequent operation and maintenance will also be
part of the issues addressed by FEC in its appraisals.  The highlights of
FEC's appraisals in the sectors of its activities are given below.
3.15     a.  Water Distribution:  The feasibility study required by FEC would
include the description of the project area, its main economic activities, and
the existing water system including, resources, quality of service, and popu-
lation connected. The study would provide cost estimates for the various com-
ponents of land, civil works, equipment and assembly, broken down into foreign
exchange and local currency costs, taxes and fees.  In addition a master plan
(for projects costing over DH 5 million) would be required ensuring sufficient
water production for the next twenty years and providing the successive stages
of execution and costs estimates in comparison to technical alternatives.  It
would also include projections of water supply and demand based on data of
total population, population connected, daily consumption of household and
industrial users, and system losses. The financial analysis would cover
(i) the projections, on an incremental basis, of capital and operating costs
divided into manpower, energy, materials, overheads and financial expenses,
and revenues from water sales and connection fees; (ii) the calculation of the
marginal cost of water relative to the project and the discounted project cost
per additional consumer; and (iii) an estimate of the project's internal rate
of return, for which a minimum, depending on project size, is required. FEC's
appraisal would demonstrate that the eligibility and approval criteria, inclu-
ding ceiling on unit costs and required rates of return, have been met, that
the alternative selected is the lowest-cost solution, and that the project
will be technically efficient and financially viable.



- 15 -
3.16     b.  Electricity:  The feasibility study required by FEC would include
the description of the project area, its main economic activities and the
existing distribution system including substations capacity, service quality
and population connected. The study would include relevant technical data
(loads, and critical periods) on the network and project cost estimates broken
down into local and foreign currency costs, and taxes for the various compo-
nents of land, civil engineering, supplies, metering and other equipment, and
installation.  In addition, FEC would require a master plan for the next 10 to
15 years (for projects costing over DR 5 million), referring to ONE's elec-
tricity supply forecasts, with the successive phases of execution, cost esti-
mates per annum, and projected electricity supply and demand in the area of
influence.  Projections of demand and sales would. be based on data of total
population and population connected, daily consumlption of residential and
industrial users, and losses of power and energy in the network. The finan-
cial analysis would cover (i) the projections of capital and operating costs
divided into manpower, energy, equipment, spare parts, materials, administra-
tive and financial expenses, and the revenues from sales of electricity and
connection fees; (ii) the calculation of the marginal cost of electricity
under the project, and of the discounted project cost per additional consumer;
and (iii) the calculation of the project's internal rate of return. FEC's
appraisal would demonstrate that the eligibility and approval criteria have
been met, that the alternative selected is the lowest-cost solution, and that
the project will be technically efficient and financially viable.
3.17     c.  Productive Facilities:  The feasibility study required by FEC
would include a description of the project area, its main economic activities,
and comparable existing facilities, including capacity and service level. In
addition it would include a demand analysis over a period depending on the
type of project, and based upon data of projected consumption and population
served. The technical study would provide an execution schedule for civil
works, including supply and assembly of project'rs facilities and the technical
specifications of the equipment, the identification of the operating unit and
qualifications required for the project construction and operation.  The pro-
ject cost estimates would be broken down into land, site preparation, civil
works and equipment.  The financial analysis of the project will include the
estimated capital and operating costs and project revenues as well as the
calculation of the financial rate of return (for projects costing more than
DR 2.5 million)   FEC's appraisal of the project would address the project's
objectives within the framework of communal development, and ascertain the
soundness of the project proposal and its impact on the commune's financial
situation, with estimates of direct and indirect effects on the commune's
operating budget.
3.18     d.  Urban Transportation; These projects relate to the purchase by
the regies of buses, service vehicles and equipment for maintenance as well as
to the construction and expansion of workshops, maintenance buildings and bus
shelters. The studies required by FEC for its appraisal would include preli-
minary engineering designs and detailed cost estimates for buildings. The
appraisal would show the impact of the project on the regie's financial situa-
tion and the improvement in the regie's cash flow over an appropriate period
of time. It would also demonstrate that the organization, management and per-
sonnel of the regie would allow the satisfactory implementation of the project.



- 16 -
3.19     e.  Urban Development:  These projects mainly relate to sites and
services projects for the communes to develop housing plots for commune emplo-
yees who own no dwelling. The technical study would include preliminary engi-
neering designs of infrastructure networks with costs estimates, and address
the availability of land and beneficiaries, and the analysis of housing supply
in the commune. The financial analysis including financing plan, projections
of capital costs and receipts from sale or lease, and project cash flow would
show that the principle of cost-recovery will be observed and that the project
expenditures will not impose constraints on the commune's finances as to jeo-
pardize other priority investments or the sound operation of other communal
projects. FEC 's appraisal would ensure that the agreed eligibility criteria
are met, particularly with regard to ceilings on investment and unit costs of
serviced land.
3.20     f.  Sewerage:  FEC's appraisal of the project will, on the basis of
an appropriate feasibility study, cover (i) the physical and economic charac-
teristics of the project area, the population recorded and the forecast of
future population; (ii) the arrangements to be concluded concerning project
execution and supervision, and operation and maintenance of the system; (iii)
the sewerage charges, connection fees and other related revenues; (iv) the
existing sewerage facilities, quality of service, estimates of per capita and
total water consumptions, and number of connections for various types of usage
(domestic, industrial, commercial, public and tourism); and (v) the forecast
of future water consumption and the number of water and sewerage connections
over a 10-year period. The appraisal will also discuss the feasible alterna-
tives for sewerage networks and ways of improving and expanding the existing
system. It will provide the calculation of the estimated costs of the selec-
ted alternatives, their economic comparison and the justification of the
proposed least cost solution with a detailed cost estimate and program of the
investments.  The project's financial analysis will include a forecast of
income statements, cash flow statements and balance sheets. The calculation
of the marginal cost of sewerage for the project will also be provided. The
eligibility criteria would relate to the marginal cost of sewerage for the
center under consideration expressed as a cost per cubic meter of consumed
water.
3.21     Project Supervision%  FEC would follow-up on all its assisted pro-
jects during the execution stage in order to monitor the effectiveness of its
financial assistance to the LCs, and provide them with further advice as
necessary and feasible.  During negotiations, FEC's supervision procedures
were reviewed and agreement was reached concerning the coordination of this
activity by FEC and MOI.  The agreement was recorded in a Supplemental Letter
to the Loan Agreement.
3.22     Loan Approvals and Disbursements.  Loan approvals are decided by the
General Director of CDG upon recommendation by a "Technical Committee" which
includes two ex-officio members from the Ministry of Interior and two from the
Ministry of Finance. Commitments of FEC's loans are also decided by the
General Director of the CDG, who can also decide of subsequent amendments to



- 17 -
the initial objectives of these loans.  FEC's loans, which norinally cover 100%
of projects cost, are disbursed in four equal portions, the first one as
advanced payment upon start of works, and the sut,sequent three only upon
receipt of all certified evidences of expenditures incurred under the previous
portion. This system is satisfactory.
3.23     Procurement%  Procurement under FEC assisted projects is carried out
along the 1976 Government unified regulations for public sector's tendering
for goods and services. These regulations providle for procurement of works
and equipment through bidding and awarding procedures ensuring efficient allo-
cation of public funds.  They are broadly in line with the general practices
observed under World Bank operations, as they mainly consist of open or limi-
ted competitive bidding (with pre-qualifications); calls for tender are adver-
tised two weeks in advance in the official gazette, offers are evaluated and
contracts are awarded under the control and with the approval of various
concerned Government departments, including - for contracts over DH 200,000
($32,000) - the Ministry of Finance. The regulations provide also for direct
orders, however in limited and well specified instances, which besides the
case of proprietary procurement, standardization or extension of contracts,
generally fall beyond the scope of FEC's operations.  These regulations are
satisfactory to the Bank, and throughout its association with local government
projects, FEC has developed experience in checking invoices and cost estimates
as well as in monitoring the compliance of expendiitures on account of its
assisted projects with Government regulations.  The appraisal reports of Bank
sub-projects would make it explicit that procuremnent procedures have duly been
reviewed by, and are satisfactory to, FEC.  Procurement under Bank sub-
projects would be a particular focus of sub-project reviews as well as of Bank
supervision missions.  International Competitive Bidding (ICB) under Bank sub-
projects would not be warranted given the typical small or moderate size of
contracts, as average project total cost is below 31 million equivalent, and
no individual contract is likely to exceed $1.5 million equivalent.
F. Organization and Staff
3.24     The FEC management unit, initially a small division of CDG, became a
department in 1980. The staff report to the Director of FEC to whom internal
management powers are delegated by the General Director of CDG.  The FEC unit
is broadly organized along two main functional lines. One unit is concerned
with project financing and one unit is handling the accounting tasks. How-
ever, the distribution of functions between the two units needs further
streamlining. With proper staffing - and once the projects appraisal and
follow-up functions are more clearly separated from FEC's overall financial
management and accounting tasks - such a simple organization would be adequate
to meet FEC's needs at this stage. A small Statistics and Research Unit may
also be set up, as suggested by the Bank, to update information on, and moni-
tor activities of, the borrowing communes. FEC's administrative tasks would
still fall within the responsibilities of CDG.  An agreement was reached
during negotiations that a staffing and reorganization plan for FEC would be
submitted to the Bank by October 31, 1983 and implemented thereafter.



- 18 -
3.25      The FEC management unit has no sufficient personnel, in number or
experience, to carry out its functions effectively.  In June 1981, its staff
totalled 20, including 12 professionals.  Its future staffing requirements
were estimated in light of the expected volume of operations and the required
standards for project processing. Budget allocations have been made to
increase the existing total staff to 25 in 1982 and 35 in 1983. The bulk of
the recruitment, started in 1982 and expected to be completed in 1983, would
mainly strengthen the projects unit. During 1983 the accounting and clerical
staff would also be strengthened. The recruitment objectives of the FEC
management unit, including the employment during 1983 of five additional
economist/financial analysts, two engineers and three technical aides, were
confirmed at negotiations, and reflected in the Loan documents. Thus, with
four appraisal teams, each including a half-time engineer, one technical aide
and one economist/financial analyst - assumed to be trained by end-1983 -
CDG's FEC management unit manpower needs should be adequately covered to
process in 1983 (excluding any project preparation work) an estimated number
of 60 projects, the average size of which would be around DH 3 to 3.5 million
($0.5 to 0.6 million).  The two remaining technical aides, with the assistance
of two accountants, would handle the supervision activities on the basis of
two visits per project and per year, thus covering the estimated 120 projects
under construction in FEC's portfolio (assuming a disbursement period of two
years per project).
3.26      The training requirements for the FEC unit's staff have also to be
addressed, as an intense effort would be required to familiarize the staff
with the new procedures of project appraisal and follow-up.  A first step
could be to call on the Banque Nationale de Developpement Economique (BNDE) to
provide technical advice and training to FEC unit's project officers.
Training, with EDI's help, would also be considered after reviewing the
recruits backgrounds. Furthermore, the advisor(s) and technical consultants
whose utilization is foreseen under the project to define and implement the
new policies and operating procedures, would also be responsible for providing
formal and on-the-job training to FEC unit's staff in project preparation and
appraisal.  It was agreed during negotiations that a program of training for
FEC unit's staff, will be submitted to the Bank by January 1, 1984, for its
approval.
3.27     The FEC unit's staff are subject to the uniform salary scale of CDG
which, including various benefits (housing, retirement, etc...), provides an
acceptable remuneration package, reasonably in line with that of the other
development banking institutions in Morocco. The aggregate salaries and
benefits remain, though, well below those of the private sector.
G. Management Information System
3.28     The small size of the staff has allowed FEC's management to follow up
on and monitor operations without recourse yet to a formal management infor-
mation system. The staff have direct access to the Director, with whom they
work closely. Written reports and statements currently prepared by FEC are
limited to notes presenting projects to the "Technical Committee", and annual



- 19 -
financial statements. Limited forecasting of operations and finances was so
far done, but FEC has agreed with the Bank to prepare hence, on regular basis,
five-year projections of its operations and finances as initiated in conjunc-
tion with the Bank project.  In addition, the advisor(s) whose recruitment is
foreseen under the project (para 4.06), would assist FEC in setting up inter-
nal monitoring procedures and developing a management information system.
H.  Operations and Finances
3.29     Past operations:  The growth rate of FEC's operations has been
impressive during the past years. Between 1977 and 1980, FEC's loan approvals
grew at an average annual rate of 70% increasing froma DH 35.4 million
($5.5 million) for 7 projects in 1977, to DH 171 million ($27.5 million) for
37 projects in 1980.  Total approvals fell in 1981 to DH 103 million
($16.5 million) for 47 projects, with the decline in the level of operations
mainly attributable to a temporary shift in the order of Government priorities
towards the agriculture and food sectors as a reSult of the severe 1980-81
droughts in Morocco. Loan approvals increased again to DH 160 million
($25.7 million) in 1982.  The percentage of FEC financing directed to the
rdgies averaged 48% during the period 1977-81, declining from 57% in 1977 to
50% in 1980 and 28% in 1981, a trend resulting from the new Government policy
of gradually increasing the investment share of the less endowed small and
rural communes. The sectoral distribution of FEC's financing does not show a
clear pattern which could be traced year-by-year.  However, the sectoral
breakdown of FEC's financing over the period 1977-81, was as follows: (i) in
the case of the local communes: 48% of the financing went for sewerage, 30%
for productive facilities, 20% for various infrastructure works and 2% for
water supply; and (ii) in the case of the r6gies: 51% for water supply, 23%
for electricity and 26% for transport.  Detailec. information on the regional
distribution of FEC's activities is available irt the Project File.
3.30     Financial position:  By the end of 1981, FEC's total assets amounted
to DH 523 million ($83.7 million) including a loan portfolio of DH 503 million
($80.5 million). Current assets - excluding the current portion of the loan
portfolio - amounted to DH 18 million ($2.9 milLion). These assets have been
mainly funded by CDG's discount and Central Bank's rediscount notes (DH 392
million) ($62.7 million),, other advances from CI)G (DR 23 million) ($3.7
million), and a long-term loan (DH 43 million) ($6.9 million), corresponding
to a local bond issue guaranteed by the Government. The balance of FEC's
resources has been made up of DH 65 million ($1t0.4 million) in equity and
retained earnings. Provisional accounts for the end of 1982 indicate a small
decrease in total assets to DR 511 million, due to the temporary decline of
FEC's operations in 1981.  The financial structure of FEC's balance sheet
remained practically unchanged in 1982, with equity including retained
earnings, increasing to DH 69 million. The comparison of the maturities of
FEC's resources and uses clearly shows an imbalance in FEC's financial struc-
ture with a long-term loan portfolio mainly funded by short-term discount
notes. FEC is also undercapitalized, with a debt-equity ratio of about 7,
which is excessive for an institution with no proven track record. Such an
imbalanced financial structure is, however, acceptable as long as FEC's



- 20 -
financial liability and creditworthiness is an integral part of CDG.  The
financial structure of FEC at this stage is therefore not an issue relevant to
the successful implementation of this pilot project.  Under the present con-
ditions, it would be difficult to give full financial independence to FEC, and
given CDG's sound financial management and situation, there is no need to
press under this pilot project for full financial independence for FEC.
However, recognizing that FEC's financial structure is weak, the loan would be
made to the Government (para 4.07).
3.31     With a current lending rate of 8.5%, FEC has been able to generate
moderate annual surpluses, given the low overall cost (5.8%) of its borrowed
resources.  It has so far no provisions for risk on its portfolio as the LCs'
borrowings are Government guaranteed. The regies - which account for about
50% of FEC's portfolio - do not benefit from a similar guarantee, but their
deficits are in principle covered by budgetary allocations.  The financial
quality of FEC's portfolio is good with only one loan, to the regie of trans-
port of Rabat, in arrears of payment of DH 7 million ($1.1 million). FEC has
suspended all future loans to this regie until settlement of the amounts due.
Under the 1982-86 financial projections of FEC, provisions for risk are made
gradually as of 1984 on the unsecured (regies) part of the portfolio.
3.32      Auditing:  FEC's accounts were audited for the first time in 1980
upon the Bank's request.  The auditing firn was selected with the Bank's
approval, and is satisfactory.  The audit of the 1981 accounts has yet to be
prepared. During negotiations, agreement was obtained on the scope of the
audit and the preparation of an audit report to be sent to the Bank within 6
months of the end of FEC's fiscal year.
3.33      Forecasts of operations:  In view of the expanded functions with
which FEC will be entrusted, the growth of its business volume, as projected
by the MOI (para 2.08) for the 5-year plan period (1981-85), is ambitious and
will be difficult to achieve particularly when taking into account FEC's and
the LCs' technical and absorptive capacities. Revised projections for FEC's
operations, well below the targets of the Plan, and more in line with FEC's
processing capability, were jointly prepared with the Bank. These forecast a
loan approval level of DH 210 million ($33.6 million) in 1983, growing there-
after by 20% pea. in current terms, to reach DH 360 million ($57.6 million) in
1986 (as compared to DH 800 million ($128 million) projected for 1985 in the
Plan). With regard to regional distribution of future activities, FEC intends
to focus more on the rural communes, increasing its lending to them from an
insignificant share in the past to an annual average of 35% over 1982-1986.
The urban communes would receive 38% of FEC's lending while the balance of 27%
would go to the public utility authorities (regies). Sectorally, 25/. of FEC's
lending would be for sewerage projects, 22% for water supply, 22% for produc-
tive facilities, 14% for electrification, and the balance for urban develop-
ment projects. On tiie basis of estimated approvals and average loan amounts,
the number of projects would increase from 47 in 1981 to 105 in 1986, reflec-
ting FEC's increased focus on smaller operations in rural communes. Given,
however, FEC's current project pipeline, the number of projects is unlikely to



- 21 -
exceed 60 in 1983, but would still reach about 100 in 1986.  These targets
which were discussed with the Bank, provide a reasonable basis for the pro-
jected operations of FEC.  The staffing requirements of the FEC unit through
1983 have been estimated in line with the proposed increase in volume and
number of operations, taking due account of training needs.
3.34     Financial forecasts and resource reguirements:  Over the period
1983-86, FEC's loan portfolio is expected to grow from DH 794 million
(127 million) to DH 1,333 million (0213 million.).  The evolution of FEC's
financial position would still have to be viewed in the context of FEC's legal
status as a department within CDG, heavily relying on CDG's financial support.
However, stemming from a longer-term concern to strengthen FEC's financial
base, Government concurrence was obtained during negotiations to a limited
financial restructuring through additional capital payments by the Treasury,
and/or provision of long-term subordinated loans at moderate cost by the CDG.
The amounts of equity or (quasi-equity) would be contributed in equal annual
installments of DH 20 million ($3.2 million) in 1984, 1985, and 1986 and -
account taken of the earnings accumulated during the period - would more than
double the present DH 69 million ($11 million) level of FEC's equity. With
regards to the composition of its borrowings, FEC would gradually reduce its
reliance on low-cost, short-term (revolving) discount and rediscount notes
from CDG and the Central Bank, while increasingly resorting to less conces-
sionary sources of finance on local and foreign markets.  Thus, between 1982
and 1986, the share of it's borrowings on such markets is forecast to grow
from 15% to 45% of FEC's overall borrowings, while in the same period Central
Bank rediscount notes are forecast to fall from 65% to 35%, and CDG's discount
notes from about 25% to 20%. The average cost of borrowings would thus
increase from less than 6% in 1982 to 8.5% in 1986.  As of 1984, provisions
for risk would build up from 0.25% of FEC's unsecured regies' portfolio - not
subject to a straightforward Government guarantee - to 0.5% in 1985 and 1%. in
1986 until they reach 3% of such portfolio. This build-up of provisions was
agreed during negotiations.  If FEC's lending rcte, under these conditions,
were to remain at its current level of 8.5%, FEC's profitability between 1982
and 1986 would be marginal and steadily deteriorating, despite insignificant
administrative expenses (less than 0.3% of total assets) as FEC's administra-
tive tasks are performed by CDG.  Therefore, if FEC is to strengthen its
finances and build up adequate reserves, the increase of its lending rates to
more realisitic levels in line with the cost of its resources will be
required. Thus, in line with the projected increase in the cost of FEC's
borrowings, agreements was reached during negotiations for the increase of
FEC's lending rates to at least 10% by December 31, 1983 and for their sub-
sequent revision on an annual basis with the aim of achieving a marginal
spread of 3% over the average cost of FEC's overall resources as of 1984, and
ensuring FEC of a satisfactory profitability.  This and other agreements
referred to in this paragraph with respect to financial performance of FEC
were recorded in a supplementary letter to the :.oan Agreement. The projec-
tions of FEC's operations and finances for the period 1982-86 are given in
Annex IV. Under the assumptions of these projections, FEC's net profit would



- 22 -
amount to DR 3.8 million (0.6 million) (6% of average net worth) in 1983,
increasing to DH 15.5 million ($2.5 million) (10% of average net worth) in
1986. Gross income as percentage of average total assets would be around 8.3
in 1983, increasing to 9.7 in 1986.  Financial expenses as percentage of
average total assets would amount to 7.3 in 1983 and 7.6 in 1986, with low
interest coverage ratios of 1.1 in 1983 and 1.3 in 1986.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.01     In support of the Government's regional and communal development
policy, the objective of the project is to assist the LCs in their efforts to
meet their basic infrastructural needs. A manageable approach to achieving
the project's objective would be to channel to the LCs financial resources and
technical assistance through FEC, and strengthen FEC into a more effective
financier of the local communes, thus enhancing their prospects to implement
their development projects in an economic manner. This institutional upgra-
ding of FEC will apply not only to sub-projects financed under the proposed
loan, but to all projects financed by FEC.  In view of the multisectoral scope
of the project, and the existing weaknesses of many of the LCs in preparing
and implementing projects, and of FEC in appraising and supervising projects,
the Bank loan, designed on a pilot basis, will focuss on the institution buil-
ding of FEC through technical assistance to enhance its internal organization
including staff development, and formalize its policies and procedures to
improve its potential impact on the quality of the LCs' projects. The project
would more specifically assist FEC in foraulating operating principles for
project financing, on the basis of rigorous preparation, appraisal and super-
vision standards and criteria, and improving the efficiency of its staff in
the performance of their functions.
4.02     The pilot project should be viewed as a first stage of a broader
institution building process, which in the medium-term could enable FEC to
accede to an expanded and eventually full legal autonomy and financial inde-
pendence, able to mobilize on behalf of the LCs new resources on a wider scale
to meet their large investment requirements, and complement the financing
provided under central Government budgets.
B. Project Scope
4.03     The proposed loan to FEC, in an amount of $16 million, would include
a line of credit of 315 million for project financing, and a technical assis-
tance component (including contingencies) of about 40.96 million to improve
FEC's internal organization and procedures, with particular emphasis on pro-
ject preparation, appraisal and follow-up. The proposed amount would also
finance the capitalized front-end fee of about $0.04 million on the loan.  The
line of credit would cover about 15% of FEC's projected borrowing needs during
1983-86. Undisbursed funcds under the technical assistance component would be
reallocated to the line of credit for sub-project financing.



- 23 -
Allocation of Bank Loan                                    Amounts
(in $ million)
Line of Credit                                         15.00
Technical Assistance and Contingencies                  0.96
Front-end Fee                                           0.04
Total Loan Amount                                 16.00
4.04     a.  Line of Credit for Project Financing:  The line of credit wiil be
used to finance about 30 sub-projects in the sectors eligible for FEC's assis-
tance, as provided in FEC's Statement of Policy. These relate to specific
categories of infrastructure and productive revenue-generating projects.  The
sub-borrowers will be the urban and rural communes, groupings of communes, and
the public utility authorities (regies). All FEC's projects, irrespective of
the source of finance, will be subject to the appraisal criteria developed
with Bank assistance in each of the eligible sectors; this was confirmed
during negotiations and recorded in a supplementary letter to the Loan and
Project Agreements.  In most sectors, except for sewerage and sub-projects
costing less than DH 500,000 ($80,000), the users' charges and/or the taxes
charged by the LCs will normally cover fully the capital, operation and main-
tenance costs. Under this first pilot loan, however, and pending resolution
of sector policy issues being discussed through :he proposed Casablanca
Sewerage project now under preparation in the Bank, sewerage projects (which
represent around 25% of FEC's operations) would be financed by the Bank on a
case-by-case basis, if the cost-recovery element is adequately addressed and
the Bank is satisfied as to the arrangements regarding execution, supervision,
operation and maintenance of each project. Furtalermore, Bank's financing
would be initially restricted, in the water and electricity sectors, to those
projects operated or managed by the public utility authorities (r4gies, or
ONEP or ONE) which generally have the technical capability to prepare and
execute such projects. Thus, assuming that the sectoral distribution of Bank
funds would be similar to that of FEC's overall operations, around 2/3 of the
loan amount would finance sub-projects operated or managed by the public
utility authorities.  The proposed appraisal standards and procedures are
consistent with Bank policies for direct lending in those sectors and were
agreed during negotiations.
4.05     b.  Technical Assistance:  Allocation is made under the loan to cover
the foreign exchange costs and up to 75% of local expenditures of institu-
tional strengthening pertaining to staff training ($50,000), advisory
($200,000) and consultancy ($250,000) services.  The use of one or more
advisors for an aggregate period of two years, and technical consultants
(individuals or firms) for about 20 to 24 man-months (S10,000 per man-month),
will be needed to define and implement the new policies and operating proce-
dures and was agreed at negotiations. The conditions of employing the tech-
nical consultants, in terms of size and type of sub-projects, were equally
discussed and agreed at negotiations.  Agreement: was furthermore reached at



- 24 -
negotiations for the employment by January 1, 1984, of the technical consul-
tants, all in accordance with the guidelines for the use of consultants by
World Bank borrowers, and with qualifications and terms of reference satis-
factory to the Bank. The advisor(s) and technical consultants would also be
responsible for providing formal and on-the-job training to FEC's staff in
project preparation, appraisal and supervision. As outlined in paras 3.12 to
3.21, the emphasis of the technical assistance scheme will be put on (i)
project preparation, where the assistance of FEC to the LCs in reviewing and
completing feasibility studies would be stepped up, in particular for small/
rural projects, for water and electricity projects costing more than DH 5
million ($0.8 million) and for sewerage projects; (ii) project appraisal,
where a set of criteria and detailed financing procedures and guidelines have
been developed by the Bank to ensure the adequacy of the project design, cost-
recovery capacity and financial viability, as well as arrangements for project
implementation and subsequent operation and maintenance; and (iii) project
supervision, where systematic follow-up on all FEC's projects during the exe-
cution stage will be carried out to monitor the effectiveness of FEC's finan-
cial assistance to the LCs, and provide them with further advice as necessary
and feasible.
4.06      As part of the process of strengthening its organization, structure
and operating procedures, FEC will employ advisor(s) with qualifications, ex-
perience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank for an initial period
of two years. Enployment of one technical advisor responsible for appraisal
and supervision of projects (tasks (i), (ii) and (iii) below) is made a condi-
tion of loan effectiveness. Other advisor(s) which may be required for tasks
(iv) to (vii) below would be employed by October 1, 1983 as agreed upon during
negotiations.  The Terms of Reference of the advisor(s) (Annex V), who will
report to the Director of FEC, were agreed upon during negotiations, and would
inter alia include assistance to FEC in:
(i) The review of the content and quality of feasibility studies received
by FEC and completion, as required, of studies to allow the appraisal
by FEC of project proposals.
(ii) The appraisal of projects in accordance with technical, financial and
economic criteria, adopted in consultation with the Bank by FEC for
various infrastructure and productive projects, with particular
emphasis on lowest-cost solutions, cost-recovery, and financial
viability.
(iii) The follow-up on the execution of FEC-assisted projects and design
and implementation of appropriate supervision procedures.
(iv) The preparation of an operational manual including detailed formats
for financing applications and appraisal and supervision reports, as
well as technical notes on the methodology of project analysis and
ratios.
(v) The design of training programs for FEC staff in project analysis and
follow-up, particularly the organization of seminars to be conducted
by experts from consulting tirms or training institutes.



- 25 -
(vi)  The preparation of staff recruitment plans, including description of
required profiles.
(vi i)  The development of internal monitoring procedures and of a  manage-
ment information system.
C.  Main Features of the Loan
4.07     Lending arrangements:  Given the status of FEC existing in practice
as a unit within the CDG, the loan is proposed to be made to the Government
and on-lent to FEC.  The loan to the Government would be made at the standard
Bank terms and on-lent to FEC at a fixed-interest rate of 11.5%, equal to the
present cost of FEC's (alternative) borrowings oni the local bond market.  In
addition to relating the cost of Bank funds to the marginal cost of FEC's
borrowings on the local bond market, the proposed rate of 11.5%o would also be
positive when compared to the Bank interest rate prevailing at the time of
Board approval.  The impact of the cost of Bank :funds on FEC's finances in
1983-85, would be marginal in view of the small share that these funds would
represent among FEC's total borrowings during the period. In addition to the
interest rate risk, the foreign exchange risk att:ached to Bank funds will be
borne by the Government. Agreement on the on-lending terms of the proposed
loan to FEC was reached during negotiations, and will be incorporated in a
Financing Agreement between the Government and FEC, satisfactory to the Bank
and specifying, in addition, all the agreed on-lending conditions of Bank
funds. Execution of the Financing Agreement is a condition of loan
effectiveness.
4.08     FEC's on-lending rates:  In view of FEC's increased reliance on less
concessionary borrowings (para 3.34), its lending rates are proposed to be
increased from 8.5% to 10% by end of 1983, and be annually reviewed with the
Bank as of 1983, to provide FEC with a minimum spread of 3% over the cost of
its overall resources. Agreement to this effect was reached during negotia-
tions and recorded in a supplementary letter to the Loan Agreement. The
increase to 10% in 1983 would yield a positive spread on FEC's overall
borrowings, yet a negative spread on Bank funds in 1983. With inflation rates
for Morocco projected at 9% in 1983 and 9X. in 1984, FEC's lending rate to the
r4gies, which bear the full interest cost on their loans is thus expected to
be positive as of 1984.  This, however, may not be the case for the LCs which
receive, as Government contribution to their social and economic development,
a 3/. interest subsidy on their FEC's loans, bringing their effective borrowing
rate from 8.5% to 5.5%.  Given the need to maintain the concept of FEC's
financial viability and hence autonomy, the principle of continued interest
subsidy provided by the Government to the LCs should be accepted at this stage
even if the proposed interest rate increase is to be itself covered by an
increase in subsidy.  Such an increase in subsidy would amount during the
period 1983-85 to less than 0.7% of the Govermnent budgetary allocations to
the LCs.  Furthermore, as the overall envelope of Government financial allo-
cations to the LCs is fixed each year, an increase in interest subsidy would
imply a decrease in other forms of Government subsidies to the LCs, thus
putting no additional burden on Government finances.



- 26 -
4.09     Commitment of the loan and limits on sub-loan and sub-project size:
The Bank loan is estimated to be committed over a two to three year period
starting mid-1983.  The Bank loan should cover the sub-project's estimated
(direct and indirect) foreign exchange component. This percentage, averaged
over all sectors, and weighted by the shares of the loan projected to be used
in each of the sectors is estimated at around 50%. Thus, and in view of the
proposed modalities of disbursement of Bank funds (para 4.10), the Bank's line
of credit is proposed to finance up to 50X of any sub-project cost, which will
overall, ensure that the aggregate foreign exchange components of the sub-
projects submitted for Bank financing are covered under the loan. Furthermore,
limits on sub-loan and sub-project size are introduced to ensure that the line
of credit would be used for an adequate number of sub-projects allowing,
through the sub-project review process, a meaningful transfer of the Bank's
technical assistance. The limits introduced bear (i) on the sub-project size
(DH 6.5 million) ($1.0 million) - allowing a maximum sub-loan of
DH 3.25 million ($0.5 million) - when the sub-borrower is a local commune, and
(ii) on the sub-loan size (DH 5 million) ($0.8 million) when the sub-borrower
is a regie (as for r6gies, project sizes are larger and vary within a very
broad range which is difficult to forecast). Agreement on these modalities
was confirmed at negotiations.  Thus, based on FEC's project pipeline as of
June 30, 1982 (DH 65 million ($10 million) for 30 requests pending), and on
the limits on Bank financing so set, the Bank loan would finance about 30 sub-
projects.
4.10     Disbursements under the Loan;  Disbursements under the loan would be
made as follows;
Category and             Amount Allocated    % of Expenditures
Description                    Us$             to be Financed
1 -   Line of Credit              15,000,000        50% of FEC disbursements
2 -   Technical Assistance           960,000         100% of foreign expenditures
and contingencies                             and 75% of local expenditures.
3 -   Front-End Fee                   40,000        Amount due
TOTAL AMOUNT            16,000,000
In view of the small size of many of the contracts under the sub-loans on
which the Bank will be requested to disburse - covering, inter alia, cons-
truction works - it would be administratively cumbersome to require the
submission of standard documentation of expenditures under the line of credit
(category 1).  Disbursements on FEC's sub-loans would be made under the cer-
tified Statement of Expenditure system. Drawings will be made periodically on
a reimbursement basis covering up to 50% of FEC's own financing for the pro-
ject (generally 100% of the project cost) upon receipt of statements of expen-
ditures submitted by FEC and certified by the Director of FEC.  The standard
supporting documentation will be kept with FEC for inspection on request by
Bank supervision missions. In addition to the normal audit of accounts,
formal arrangements will be made with FEC's auditors for such inspection,
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. Disbursements would be fully
documented under the other categories.



- 27 -
4.11     Review of Sub-project Appraisals;  Under this first loan to FEC, with
its strong technical assistance focus, it is imperative for the Bank to review
and comment on the largest number possible of FEC's appraisal reports, espe-
cially during the early stages of loan commitment, in order to provide FEC
with the required assistance in upgrading and building up its appraisal
capabilities and identify the technical assistance needed. Thus, the normal
practice of free-limit under DFC projects is not proposed. All sub-project
appraisals would be submitted to, and reviewed by, the Bank.
4.12     Repayment Period of Sub-Loans and Amortization of the Bank Loan:
Sub-loans may be made by FEC for up to 14 years including grace periods of up
to 3 years. A review of the requirements of FEC subprojects covering the main
sectors of its financing show that these terms are appropriate. With the
estimated commitment period for sub-projects of up to 3 years after signature
of the proposed loan, the final maturity of the loan will fall within 17
years. Thus the loan will be repaid by FEC to the Government according to a
fixed amortization schedule over a period of seventeen years, including four
years of grace. Debt service of the loan by the Government to the Bank will
coincide with that by FEC to the Government.  Disbursements under the proposed
loan are estimated as follows:
(Bank FY)   84    85    86    87    88    89
Annual ($ million)                  0.9   3.3   4.7   3.6   2.0   1.5
Cumulative ($ million)              0.9   4. 2   8.9  12.5  14.5  16.0
4.13     Other Features:  The final date for submission of sub-projects is
June 30, 1986, and the closing date June 30, 1989.  Other terms and conditions
of the loan would follow those applicable to normal Bank loans to DFCs.
D. Benefits and Risks
4.14     The main benefits of the proposed project will be the improvement of
public services to meet communities' needs in water supply, electricity, urban
development and transportation, as well as in such facilities as warehouses,
markets, and slaughterhouses. This should in part increase the productivity
and employment opportunities in the less developed areas of Morocco, integrate
their inhabitants into the national development process, and partly slow the
migration flows from these areas to the main large cities. Loan direct bene-
fits in terms of specific sub-projects financed, are difficult to quantify at
this stage. No forecast of an overall estimated return on the project can be
made as those sub-projects are yet unknown. FEC's compliance with the apprai-
sal criteria agreed with Bank, would however ensure adequate returns and
lowest-cost solutions on the sub-projects. At this stage, the most permanent
benefit of the proposed project would, however, be the gradual institutional
strengthening of an important channel for the preparation and implementation
of development projects at the local level. FEC would thus be developed into
an efficient institution specializing in financial and technical assistance to
the local communes. At the same time, through FEC's new and broader scope of
activities, a number of key institutional mechanisms in the delivery of deve-
lopment and productive services would also be strengthened.  In a longer term



- 28 -
prospective, and with future possible Bank assistance, the successful imple-
mentation of the project could enable FEC to expand its responsibilities,
including possibly full legal autonomy and financial independence, with
greater ability to mobilize on behalf of the LCs new resources on a wider
scale to meet their large investment requirements, and complement central
government financing. With full autonomy, expanded staffing, improved proce-
dures and strengthened finances, FEC may then play a more determinant role in
furthering the development process at the local and regional levels and have
greater influence on the Government investment policies in the local communes.
4.15     The main risk involved in the project is the inherent complexity of
developing, within a single and so far small institution, technical capabili-
ties and expertise pertaining to various sectors.  In addition, the project
objectives would have to be achieved under difficult conditions arising from
the perceived weaknesses of FEC and the local authorities, notably limited
staffing and expertise, and at the same time, growing demand for services.
While the proposed institutional and staff strengthening is designed to sus-
tain the expanded role and functions of FEC, it does not yet address the
external factors which will ultimately have a bearing on the success of FEC's
undertakings.  The project impact would also depend upon FEC's ability to
coordinate the actions of various central and local government authorities
involved in project selection, preparation and implementation.
4.16     However, the technical assistance component, including advisory and
consultancy services built into the project, would enhance FEC's chances in
overcoming such internal and external difficulties. Furthermore, about 2/3 of
the loan amount is expected to finance sub-projects in water, sewerage and
electricity operated or managed by specialized authorities with known and
reliable capabilities thus enhancing the chances for successful project imple-
mentation. Finally, the careful establishment, in each sector, of eligibility
and appraisal criteria and guidelines for project financing, with particular
intensive supervision efforts by the Bank, provide additional safeguards for
the objectives of the project to be met.
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During negotiations, assurance were obtained from the Government, CDG
and FEC, and recorded in the Loan documents, that:
-    FEC would receive assistance from, and coordinate with, the MOI for
the supervision of its assisted projects (S.L.) (para 3.21);
-    internal reorganization of the FEC uniit with agreed organization
chart will be submitted to the Bank by October 31, 1983 (P.A.)
(para 3.24);
-    FvC would recruit additional staff by January 1, 1984 (P.A.)
(para 3.25);
-    training program for FEC unit's staff will be submitted to the Bank
by January 1, 1984 (P.A.) (para 3.26);



- 29 -
-    FEC's accounts would be audited annually (L.A.) (para 3.32);
-    all FEC projects would be subject to the appraisal criteria agreed
upon with the Bank (S.L.) (para 4.04);
-    technical consultants would be employed by FEC by January 1, 1984 on
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (P.A.) (para 4.05);
-    advisor(s) would be employed by October ], 1983 according to terms of
reference agreed upon (P.A.) (paras 4.05 and 4.06);
-    FEC's equity base and lending interest rate would be adjusted by end
of 1983 and subsequently reviewed (para 4.08), and FEC would build-up
provisions for risks (para 3.34) (S.L. );
-    proceeds of the Bank loan would finance projects of a limited size
(P.A.) (para 4.09).
5.02     The following are conditions of loan effectiveness;
-    employment of the technical advisor responsible for the appraisal and
supervision of projects (para 4.06);
-    signature of the Financing Agreement between the Government and FEC.
(para 4.07).
5.03     In view of the agreements reached during negotiations and listed in
paras 5.01 and 5.02, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of $16 million to
the Government of Mlorocco, to be on-lent to FEC ola the terms outlined in this
report.



FEC - COMMUNAL INFRASTRUCTURE FUND
Organization Chart of Caisse de Depot et Gestion (CDG)
GENERAL DIRECTOR
SECRETARY GENERAL
DEPARTMENT                                                      DEPARTMENT OF
C.N.R.A. & R.C.A.R.                                           TOURISM & REAL ESTATE
COMMUNAL
INFRASTRUCTURE FUND        I_______]                           DEPARTMENT OF FINANCIAL &
DEPARTMENT FEC)                                          INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENTS & STUDIES
GENERAL CASHIER                                             DEPARTMENT OF "MANAGED"
INVESTMENTS
COMPUTER ACTIVITY      SOCIAL AFFAIRS          HOUSING             ACCOUNTING            FINANCIAL         INDUSTRIAL ZONES
DEPARTMENT                         | A    DEPARTMENT            DEPARTMENT           DEPARTMENT           DEPARTMENT
PERSONNEL &           HOUSING               GENERAL             TREASURY
MATERIAL             AFFAIRS             ACCOUNTING             DIVISION
DEVISION            DIVISIONS             DIVISION
-   A FFAI RS              1                   ACCOU NTS        -    DIVISION
IPAYROLL&  I       |REAL ESTATE|
FISCAL AFFAIRS     -PORTFOLIO
|DIVISION              DIVISION
CONSIGNMENTS|
IDIVISION I
EMENAIIDF
OCTOBER 1982                                                                                                  World Bank-24377



- 31 -
ANNEX II
FEC - Communal Infrastructure Fund
Infonmation and Criteria for Project Appraisal
This annex provides the information and criteria, prepared by the relevant
Projects Divisions in the Bank, for project appraisal applicable by FEC for
the following types of projects:
-     Water Distribution             (II-a)
-     Electricity Distribution       (II-b)
-     Urban Transportation           (II-c)
-     Productive Facilities          (II-d)
-     Urban Development              (II-e)
-     Sewerage                       (II-f)
-     Municipal Road Projects        (II-g)



ANNEX II-A
-32-                              Page 1 of 5
WATER DISTRIBUTION
INFORMATION AND CRITERIA FOR PROJECT APPRAISAL
1.       The FEC would prepare a dossier for the appraisal of each water
supply project, comprising the following documents (see paragraph 2).
The dossier on each project should essentially be a feasibility
study (prepared by the borrower or its consultants), comprising:
A. Descriptive memorandum:
1. a general description of the area, and the local economic
activities, characteristics and individual features;
2. a description of the existing water production and
distribution system (with a map on a scale of 1:25,000),
reservoir capacity, water resources, level of maintenance,
quality of service (interruptions) and of the water itself,
etc.;
3. a brief description of the sewerage system (with a map on a
scale of 1:25,000) and of the quality of the service of the
individual sewer systems (if any), percentage of population
with water coruections but no sewage hookups, and vice versa.
B. Master plan for the year 2000
1. for projects costing over DH 5 mlillion:
A master plan ensuring sufficienit production and adequate
distribution of drinking water up to the year 2000 (with a map on a scale
of 1:25,000).  This master plan should describe the successive stages of
execution, giving a preliminary schedule, and an approximate estimate of
the total cost of execution at constant prices, drawing an economic



ANNEX II-a
Page 2 of 5
- 33 -
comparison with the technical variants and estimating the personnel
required for the operation and maintenance of the system described;
2. 5-year projections of water supply and demand to cover the
period 1970-2000, based on the following data:
- total population - population connected to the system - unit
consumption per day (in 1/ha) - number of connections - daily consumption
per connection - daily total consumption of the population with
connections (in m3/day) - number of standpipes -, population served by the
standpipes - daily consumption of the population served by these
standpipes (in 1/ha/day) - total consumption for all standpipes (in
m3/day) - consumption by the municipality (in m3/day) - industrial
consumption (in m3/day) - other expected consumptions (in m3/day) - total
consumption (in m3/day) - gross per capita consumption - other uses (in
percentage) - quantity to be produced (in m3/day) - losses in the
distribution network (in percentage) - losses in the production system
(in percentage) - production capacity required (in m3/day).
C. Detailed study of the project
1. project description
2. map of the distribution network on a scale of 1:5,000
3. longitudinal sections of the principal conduits
4. flow calculations
5. plans and sections of the major structures
6. project estimate (broken down into foreign exchange and
costs in DH, taxes and fees, by year) for the following
components:
public works, facilities and assembly, conduits,
distribution networ1s, electricity supplies, land, others.



- 34 -                         ANNEX II-a
Page 3 of 5
D. Financial analvsis
1. financial projection of the costs of operating and
maintaining the network and of revenues from water sales and
connection fees over a period of 8-10 years from the entry
into operation of the project. This projection should be
global for the project beneficiary 1/ and broken down for
the project (additional income and costs generated by the
project). In addition, the operating costs should be
divided into personnel, energy, raw materials,
transportation, chemical products, overheads, financial
costs and amortization installments);
2. a calculation of the marginal cost of water relative to the
project and the discounted project cost per additional
consumer;
3. a 5-year projection of resources and expenditures on a
global basis for the beneficiary 1/; and
4. an estimate of the project's internal rate of return.
3.       PROJECT APPRAISAL REPORT
On the basis of data collected and worked up for chapters A to D
of the feasibility study, the FEC will make a final appraisal of all
aspects of the project (including the efficiency of the procedures used
and of the executing agents). The appraisal will seek to demonstrate
that the eligibility criteria have been met, that the alternative
selected (for which a detailed estimate will-have been given as per C-6)
is in fact the lowest-cost solution, and that the project will be
technically, administratively and financially efficient.
1/ Except in the case of ONEP, when it will ger,erally be a Regie.



- 35 -                       ANNEX II-a
Page 4 of 5
Scale of project       Very small       Small        Medium         Regies
Eligibility criteria   (less than DH   (DH 0.5-    (Over DH
0.5 M)          2.5 M)       2.5 M)
- Nature of projects   - All projects  - All projects (See list in Annex
I) for strengthening and expansion
of the wat:er transmission and
distribution system
- Ceiling on in-       Discounted investment and operating costs per
vestment unit costs  adjusted additional consumer
- Transmission, distribution
Population between 4,000 and 6,000 inhab.
DH 955
Population between 6,000 and 20,000 inhab.:
-0.6
1160 x       + 256 (x:  adjusted additional
consumers)
Population over 20,000 inhab.:
DH 400
Production, transmission, distribution
Population between 3,000 and 8,000 inhab:
DH 1730
Population between 8,000 and 40,000 inhab.
-0.5
1940 x      + 605
Population above 40,000 inhab.
DH 800
- Total project cost
lower than DH 5
million
- Water resources      - Assured water resources to meet demand for the
available              duration of the project:



ANNEX II-a
- 36-                           Page 5 of 5
- Max. duration of                          Duration (years)
capacity                ___
saturation                 15             10         10       5      Primary
and
secondary
networks
Technical study          Detailed pre-   Detailed preliminary engineering with
liminary engi-  estimate of costs and quantitites and
neering and      proof that the solution selected is
estimate of     the most economical
costs and
quantities
- Execution/
Management             Managment contract signed         Regie
with a Regie or ONEP
Approval criteria
- Project       Project          Project internal rate
receipts at      receipts at     of return more than:
least cover-    least cover-    6%          8%
ing operating   ing operating
costs and        costs; including
part of the      amortization
amortization                     Cash flow of the
installments                     Regie covering at
least 30% of its
annual investment
programs



ANNEX II-b
*   37  ~  .  .               Page 1 of 6
ELECTRICITY
Project Appraisal-Information and Criteria
I.       The FEC would prepare an appraisal dossier for each electricity
distribution project comprising the documents mentioned in paragraph II.
II.      The dossier on each project should essentially be a feasibility
study (prepared by the borrower or its consultants), comprising:
A.       Descriptive memorandum
1.   on the project area, local economic activities, and the
characteristics and individual features of the project's area of
influence
2.   a description of the existing distribution system and of the ONE
electricity supply system with a map (1:25,000) of the existing
distribution system; a description of the capacities of the
substations and of the present service quality level (outage
statistics)
3.   percentage of population connected to the existing electricity
network.
B.       Master plan for at least the next 10 to 15 years
1.  For projects costing over DH 5 million:
The master plan should both refer to ON'E's electricity supply
forecasts and ensure coordination between these and the execution schedule
for the electricity distribution master plan, with a map (1:25,000) and
the electrical diagrams (schemas electrigues) for the network. The map
and the master plan should show the successive phases of execution, a
preliminary schedule, and an approximate estimate of the total cost, per
annum, of execution of the master plan, at constant prices (state



ANNEX II-b
-38-                            Page 2 of 6
reference date), drawing an economic comparison with the foreseeable
technical variants to ensure electricity supply and demand in the area of
influence. The master plan shall also provide an estimate of the
personnel necessary to the operation and maintenance of the distribution
system described;
2. A projection of demand (kw) and sales (kwh) of electricity each
year for the first ten years, and then for the subsequent five-year
period, based on the following data:
- projection, on the basis of past statistics, of sales to the
residential sector and sales to small commercial and
industrial or craft establishments (if there are no
statistics, take as a basis a projection of total population
in the present and future area and a hypothetical consumption
figure in a similar area already electrified). This
projection would combine:
(a) a projection based on a review of large-scale industrial and
commercial projects in the private and public sectors either
already in existence or else at the planning stage;
(b) a projection based on a review of the plans for public
lighting and public buildings, etc., in the commune;
(c) all other major consumers such as agriculture, irrigation;
- projections of losses of power (kw) and energy (kwh) in the
distribution network and at the substations;
-  projections of total population, population connected to the
network, number of connections per category (residential,
industrial, etc.) monthly average consumption per category
and per voltage base (low voltage/medium voltage) during the
perl.od covered by the projection.



ANNEX II-b
39                            Page 3 of 6
C.       Detailed study of the project
1.   A description of the project indicating the major components
2.   A plan of the network or substations on an appropriate scale
3.   A simplified electrical diagram of the network and substations
with principal data such as conductor cross-sections, rated power
and current, circuit-breaking power under load and under short
circuit
4.   Study of the behavior of the distribution network under load, at
least for critical periods (peak periods, years of critical
reserve)
5.   Illustrative drawings and sections of major structures
6.   Project estimate (broken down into local currency and foreign
exchange costs, if possible estimating the foreign exchange
component of goods purchased locally, taxes and fees, by year of
execution, for the following components:
- purchase of land and rights-of-way
- civil engineering
- supply and assembly of facilities
- supply and installation of overhead lines (substations,
conduct.ors, lighting)
- supply of distribution transformers, metering equipment,
insulation materials and equipment
installation of all network components.
D.       Financial analvsis
1.   Financial projection of the costs of operation and maintenance of
the system and the distribution network, and of the revenues from
sales of electricity and connection fee.s over a period of 10



ANNEX II-b
- 40-                         Page 4 of 6
years for the urban centers and 20 years for the rural facilities starting
from the entry into operation of the project. This projection should be
global for the project beneficiary 1/ and broken down for the project
(additional income and costs generated by the project). In addition, the
operating costs should be divided into personnel, energy, equipment and
spare parts, raw materials, administrative costs, overheads, financial
costs and amortization installments.
2.   A calculation of the marginal cost of electricity (separately for
power and energy) under the project, and of the discounted
project cost per additional consumer in each consumer category.
3.   A five-year projection of resources and expenditures running from
project start-up to at least one year after the entry into
operation of the project, on a global basis for the beneficiary.l/
4.   Calculation of the project's internal rate of return.
III.     Project appraisal report
On the basis of the dossiers collected and worked up for chapters
A to D of the feasibility study, the FEC will make a final appraisal of
all aspects of the project (including the efficiency of the procedures
used and of the executing agents). The appraisal will seek to demonstrate
that eligibility criteria have been met, that the alternative selected
(for which a detailed estimate will have been given as per C-6) is in fact
the lowest-cost solution, and that project management will be technically,
administratively and financially efficient.
1/ Except in the case of ONE or of a R6gie, when they will be in charge
only of execution of the project.



ANNEX II-b
- 41 -                      Page 5 of 6
ELECTRICITY
ELIGIBILITY AND APPROVAL CRITERIA
Project size:
(a)  Less than DH 0.5 million:                      very small projects
(b)  Between DH 0.5 and 2.5 million:                small projects
(c).. Over DI! 2.5 million:                         medium-sized projects
A.       ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
1.   Nature of projects
(a) Less than DH 0.5 million
all projects, except initial production facilities
(b) DH 0.5 million - DH 5 million
all electrification projects (see Annex I).
2.   Ceiling on investment unit costs
- DII 2,000 (1980 prices) per kva installed (if distribution alone)
- DH 400 (1980 prices) for each connection
- DH 5,000 per kva installed if the project includes production costs
3.   Maximum duration of capacity saturation
Small Projects        Medium Size        R6gies
Projects
Production                           7 years              5 years            5 years
Primary network                     25 years             15 years           10 years
Transformers                        10 years              7 years            5 years
Secondary network                  25 years              15 years           15 years
4.   Technical studqy
(a)  very small projects
detailed preliminary engineering with cost- estimate
(b) small projects
- detailed preliminary engirieering with [?cost estimate]



- 42 -                         ANNEX II-b
Page 6 of 6
- cost comparison with an alternative
(c) medium-size projects:
- detailed preliminary engineering
- selection of lowest-cost alternative (comparison generally with 3
alternatives)
For the R6gi.es and ONE it is necessary to make a study of the power
transformers in terms of size and lowest cost.
5.  Implementation/Operation:  by a Regie or ONE
B.       APPROVAL CRITERIA
(a)  very small projects
Receipts should cover at least the estimated foreign exchange portion
of the cost price (fuel  oils,        maintenance, amortization, spare parts,
etc.).
(b) The internal rate of return on the project should be greater than:
4% for small projects.
6% for medium size projects
10% for projects of the R6gies and ONE.
(c)  The cash flow of the R6gie should cover at least 35% of its annual
Investment program (average for the project execution period), except where
V.therwise justified.



43                     ANNEX II-c
Page l of2
URBAN TRANSPORTATION
FEC -- ELIGIBILITY AND APPROVAL CRITERIA
A.      ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
1.   Type of borrower:               Only the transportation Regies
2.   Type of project:               - Procurement of buses and service
vehicles
- Construction or expansion of workshops,
depots and technical or maintenance
buildings
- Procurement of technical equipment for
maintenanice
C Construction of bus shelters
.3.   Investment ceilings:           - Total project cost lower than DH 5
million
:Number of buses purchased for the
project corresponding to less than 50%
of the fleet owned by the R6gie
4.   Borrowing frequency:             Interval of at least one year between
loan applications from the same Regie
5.   Studies:                        Complete preliminary engineering and
detailed cost estimate for all
buildings costing more than DH 1 million
B.       APPROVAL CRITERIA
1.   Finance:                        The impact of the project on the
R6gie's financial situation should



ANNEX II-c
~ 44 -                      Page 2 of 2
represent an improvement in the Regie's
cash flow projected over the next five
years.
2.   Management:                     The organization, management and
personnel of the R6gie should be such
that the project can be executed and
managed satisfactorily from the
technical, financial and administrative
points of view.



- 45 -             ~~~ANNEX II-d
Page 1 of 5
PRODUCTIVE FACILITIES
INFORMATION AND CRITERIA FOR PRO)JECT APPRAISAL
1.   The FEC would put together for each project (in particular for
projects costing more than DH 2.5 million) a dossier comprising all information
and documentation prepared by the borrower according to the guidelines set
forth in paragraph 2 below.
2.   The project dossier submitted to the FEC for financing should contain
essentially the following items:
A. Descriptive memorandum
1. A general description of the area, and the local economic
activities, characteristics and social/geographiz/demographic features.
2. A description of facilities of the same kind already in existence,
their size, capacity and service level (e.g., nuimber of animals slaughtered per
week, number of days open, number of butcher shops/stalls).
B. Analysis of demand
1. A projection of annual demand over a period of 5-10 years
(depending on the type of project) based on data from the following studies:
-   past-and future trends in terms of population served by the project
-   past and future trends in terms of consumption of the service
offered by the project (e.g., meat consumption, volume of products
in cold storage)
2. Distribution of projected demand anong the existing facilities of
the same type and the equipment proposed by the project, when pertinent.
C.  Detailed technical studv of t_leprcj_ect
1. Description of the nature of the project, its location and its
objective within the framework of Communal development.



- 46 -                    ANNEX II-d
Page 2 of 5
2. Location plan on an appropriate scale
3. Maps, sections of buildings (scale: 1:100)
N.B.: It is recommended that standard plans be used whenever
available.
4. Technical specifications of the equipment
5. Cost estimate:
-   land
-   site preparation (earth moving, etc.)
-   civil engineering
-   plumbing, electricity, woodwork, etc.
-   equipment and facilities
D. Financial analysis of the proiect
1. Projected operating costs (including personnel), maintenance
costs, and project receipts over a period of 10 years starting from entry into
operation of the project. If the project is an expansion of an existing
operation, this financial projection should be carried out for the operation as
a whole.
2. Calculation of the financial IRR for projects costing more than DH
2.5 million.
E. Study of the rental and/or selling price of the service
The prices proposed by the borrower for renting and/or selling the
service will be analyzed in accordance with the characteristics and price
structure of the alternative bid.
F. Impact of the project on the Commune's financial situation
Estimate of direct effects: debt service and possibly management and
maintenance costs not covered by the Commune's operating budget.



47                            ANNEX II-d
Page 3 of 5
Indirect effects (road maintenance costs, garbage collection costs,
etc.).
G. Project execution schedule
An estimated schedule must be drawn up for the civil engineering
works, the calls for bids and award of contracts, and the supply and assembly
of project facilities.
H. Units and personnel of the contracting authority responsible for
execution of the project
Identification of the unit/agency and the number of technicians and
their qualifications, either already on board or required:
1. for the project construction phase
2. for project management and maintenance. Within this framework a
description will be given of the procedures and channels proposed for the
collection of revenues.
N.B.:    Requirements in terms of personnel and/or technical assistance for
earlier phases will also have to be idenitified where pertinent.
3. On the basis of the data contained :in the above-mentioned dossier,
the FEC would prepare a project appraisal report, designed to ascertain:
(a) that the project feasibility study Cessentially parts B, C, D, E
and F) is based on a reasonable foundation;
(b) that the project execution procedures (essentially parts G, H and
I) are practical in the light of the borrower's deadlines;
(c) that the eligibility and approval criteria have been met and that
the alternative selected is in fact the lowest-cost solution.



ANNEX II-d
- 48-                  Page 4 of 5
PRODUCTIVE FACILITIES
ELIGIBILITY AND APPROVAL CRITERIA FOR PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE FEC
Size of investment
Categories:   Very small (A)      Medium-sized (B)      Large-scale (C)
DH 0.5 million     DH 0.5-2.5 million   DH 2.5-5 million
A.   Eligibility criteria (for all investment size categories)
. Nature of projects
Construction of slaughterhouses, cold storage facilities, wholesale
markets, local markets, construction and development of souks, construction of
bus stations owned by the commune, cafes, bread ovens, public steam baths,
swimming pools, public beach-facilities.
. Saturation of capacity
7 years with possibility of extension
. Technical study
Detailed preliminary engineering, with detailed cost estimate.
B.   Approval criteria
For size categories A and B (all types of projects)
Annual receipts (rental and/or any other charges for services
rendered) shall be sufficient to:
(i)  cover.all annual operating expenditures (personnel, equipment,
energy, water supply, etc.) and regular and special maintenance;
and
(ii) cover at least 50 of the cost of amortization of the FEC loan,
with effect from the start of operations.
For souks and rural slaughterhouses in the chief towns
The same criterion as above, except for (ii): coverage of at least



- 49 -                           ANNEX II-d
Page 5 of 5
20% of the amortization cost.
For size category C, all types of project, in particular
slaughterhouses and cold storage facilities
Internal rate of return on the project higher than 10% per annum.



ANNEX II-e
50                          Page 1 of 3
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT ELIGIBILITY AND APPROVAL CRITERIA
I. SITES AND SERVICES PROJECTS FOR THE COMMUNES
A. Eligibility criteria
1.  Type of commune:            All communities with a population of
less than 30,000
2.  Type of project:            Plots for those persons working in the
commune who do not own any other
dwelling and who have not been awarded
a housing plot within the community
3.  Ceiling on investment       The cost price per m2 of serviced land
unit costs:                 (including the purchase cost of the
land, taking into account the
proportionate share of public areas)
shall not exceed DH 250 (1980 prices)
4.  Technical study:            Detailed preliminary engineering of all
infrastructure networks with estimated
preliminary measurements and investment
costs (plus or minus 15%)
5.  Project size:               Total project cost less than DH 5
million
B. Approval criteria
1. Availability of beneficiaries
2. Availability-of land
3. Analysis of housing supply in the community, establishing the need
for housing for commune employees
4. Approval by the Communal Council of the principle of recovery of



ANNEX II-e
-51-                            Page 2 of 3
the total project cost, including land and connections to the
infrastructure networks
5. Financial study (including project financing plan, projections of
receipts from sale or lease, maintenance costs, project cash flow)
to show that:
(i) the principle of recovery of the total project cost will be
effectively observed in determining selling prices or rents; and
(ii) the project and the correspondling loan will not impose any
constraints on the commune's finances in such a way as to
jeopardize the sound operation and maintenance of other Communal
projects
II. ROAD CONSTRUCTION
A. Eligibility criteria
1.  Nature of projects
2. Roads within the urban perimeter
3.  Technical study:  detailed preliminary engineering and detailed
cost estimate
B.  Approval criteria:  to be established later
III.  SITES AND SERVICES PROJECTS IN INDUSTRIAL AREAS
A. Eligibility criteria
1.  Industrial areas identified in the development plans, with an
existing sites and service plan
2. Availability of the land
3.  Technical study:  detailed preliminary engineering and cost
estimate
B. Appraisal and approval criteria
-   See criteria applicable to specialized facilities.



- 52 -                        ANNEX II-e
Page 3 of 3
IV. CONSTRUCTION OF PARKING AREAS
A. Eligibility criteria
-  Availability of the land
-  Technical study:  detailed preliminary engineering with cost
estimate
B. Appraisal and approval criteria
-  See criteria applicable to specialized facilities.
V. CREATION OF CAMPING AREAS AND TOURIST AREAS
A. Eligibility criteria
-  Availability of the land
-  Technical study?  detailed preliminary engineering with cost
estimate
B. Appraisal and approval criteria
-   See criteria applicable to specialized facilities



- 53 -                             Annex II-f
Page 1 of 4
SEWERAGE
Information and Criteria for Project Appraisal
1.       For each sewerage project FEC will prepare an appraisal report which
will cover the following aspects:
-    The physical and economic characteristics of the center where
the project will be implemented, the population recorded in past
censuses and the forecast of future population in the subproject
area.
-    The description of satisfactory arrangements ensuring good
execution and project supervision and efficient operation and
maintenance of the system, these arrangements including also the
measures taken to meet staffing, recruitment and training needs.
-    The sewerage charges, connection fees and other related charges.
-    The condition of the existing sewerage facilities, the estimates
of per capita and total water consumption, the number of water
and sewerage connections in previous years, and the quality of
the services.
-    The volumes of water consumed for various types of usage
(domestic, industrial, commercial, public and tourism), with a
comparison of these volumes with similar ones in other parts of
the country.



- 54-                              Annex II-f
Page 2 of 4
The determination of the maximum day and hour flow at the
outfall.
The forecast of future water consumption and the number of water
and sewerage connections over a 10 year period.
The evaluation of the percentage of population served per house
connection and per project.
The discussion of the feasible alternatives to provide the
project area with sewerage, and ways of improving and expanding
the existing sewerage system.
The calculation of the estimated costs of the selected
alternatives, and economic comparison of these alternatives.
The selection and justification of the proposed scheme,
preparation of detailed cost estimates and programmation of the
investments.
The financial analysis including a detailed forecast income
statement, cash flow statement and balance sheet for a period of
8 years.
The calculation of the marginal cost of sewerage for the
subproject.
The comparison of the subproject data with the selection
criteria.
The conclusions and recommendations.



- 55 -                              Annex II-f
Page 3 of 4
SEWERAGE
Eligibility Criteria
2.       The selection of sewerage projects is based on the following criteria:
(i)    the marginal cost of sewerage for the secondary and tertiary
networks in the center under consideration, expressed as a cost
per cubic meter of consumed water has to be less than DH 2.00
equivalent in 1982 values in the ca,se of sewer systems receiving
only domestic and industrial sewage and DH 3.00 in the case of
sewer systems receiving also storm water;
(ii)    the total estimated project cost per center should not exceed
the Dli 6,5 million equivalent in 1982 values;
(iii)   the proposed subproject should be the "least cost solution"
based on the life cycle of the project;
(iv)    local cost financing should be secured through inscription of
the project in the approved investment budget either by
additional loans or equity contributions.
3.       The marginal cost as mentioned in criterium (i) will be the average
incremental cost (AIC) of sewerage and is based on the economic cost per
consumed cubic meter of additional water to meet: the growth of the demand over
the next 5 to 10 years. The AIC is calculated by dividing the present value



- 56 -                            Annex II-f
Page 4 of 4
of all incremental capital, operating and other costs, in economic terms, by
the present value of the incremental consumption, made possible by the added
facilities. The present value for both numerator and denominator will be
determined, using the opportunity cost of capital at a discount rate of 10%.
AIC is defined ast
N
=        On         -        S
AIC               (l+r)n             (l+r)N
N
57       Qn
(l+r)n
Cn   =     incremental expenditure in year (n) for capital,
operation, maintenance, etc., in economic terms, i.e.
excluding taxes and customs duties estimated at 20%;
S    =     salvage value;
Qn   =     incremental volumes of water consumed in year (n) as a
result of the project;
N          lifespan of project = 40 years;
r    =     the opportunity cost of capital (discount rate) of 10%;
(n         runs from 0 to N).



- 57 -                             Annex II-g
Page 1 of 2
Establishment and Improvement of Municipal Roads.
Information and Criteria for Pro:ject Appraisal
a. Pre-Screening of Projects
i)    The proposed road should be marked on a suitable map of the
area; connection should be insured to existing roads in good
condition, or roads to be constructed, or to facilities such as
local markets or production centers.
(ii)    No other transport alternative should exist within a distance
of about 2km of the proposed road (assuming no physical
barriers).
b. Project Design
Engineering standards (regarding size of roELd, thickness of layers,
materials...) should be adapted to the class of road proposed. Cost
estimates of project should be based on unit: prices obtained from recent
contracts.
c. Project Justification
(i)    Existing volume of average daily traffic by type of vehicles
should be measured and estimates produced for traffic after
project implementation.
(ii)    Estimates of transport cost savings per unit of (present)
traffic (passengers and merchandise) should be provided.



- 58 -                             Annex II-g
Page 2 of 2
(iii)   Preliminary estimates of any other benefits that may accrue from
the proposed project (such as increased agricultural production,
increase in land value....) can be produced, as well as other
social access indicators such as average distance to educational,
health or administrative facilities.
(iv)    The methodology of project preparation and analysis should be
justified. The economic return of the investment (derived from
the comparison between cost savings and project costs) should be
acceptable with regard to the cost of capital. The optimal year
for project implementation would be derived.
d. Road Maintenance
Agreement should be reached on appropriate maintenance program of the
proposed road, to be implemented in accordance with specific plans. Funds
allocated for maintenance could be expressed with regard to particular
types of roads in term of absolute amounts alloted per km and per year, or
in terms of physical description of maintenance required. Agreement
should clearly assign responsibilities of various parties (Highways
Department or Local Government).
In view of the various types of roads financed (access roads, feeder
roads, village streets, paved or gravel roads,....) specific cut-off
levels regarding cost/Km of road, cost per inhabitant served or cost per
ha of cultivated land, cannot easily be set up initially. However, in the
course of project implementation and in the light of experience, ranges of
figures could be produced to serve as indicators for project features of
acceptable standards.



- 59 -                        Annex III
page 1 of 4
CAISSE DE DEPOT & DE GESTION
FONDS D'EQUIPEMENT COMMUNAL                             Rabat, March 16th, 1983
POLICY STATEMENT
The Fonds d'Equipement Communal (FEC) is a public institution with
juridical status and financial autonomy, set up tby Dahir No. 1-59-169 of
June 13, 1959. Its administrative and financial management is entrusted to
the Caisse de Dep^t et de Gestion (CDG).
I. OBJECTIVES
The purpose of FEC as set forth in Art:icle 2 of the 1959 Dahir, as
amended and supplemented by Royal Decree No. 929-66 of March 2, 1967, is "to
grant loans or advances for the financing of infrastructure works to the
prefectures and provinces, the urban and rural communes, their associations
(syndicats) and public utility authorities (r1gies communales) with juridical
status and financial autonomy. FEC may also distribute among these entities
funds which it may be entrusted to administer."
FEC shall ensure that its activities fall within the framework of
national, regional and sectoral priorities established by the Government. For
this purpose, FEC shall coordinate its activities with those of the pertinent
public and semi-public services.
FEC shall contribute to the financing of those investments and
collective infrastructure works that will generate revenues for the local
authorities and the regies, in particular the following activities and works:
a)    Water distribution
-     connections and meter installation
-     water-tower construction
-     storage reservoir construction
-     construction of sunken rainwater collection tanks
-     procurement of technical and operating equipment
-     construction of pumping and elevation stations
-     construction of water treatment stations
-     development of watering points
-     construction of water mains
-     procurement of desalination units
-     construction of distribution networks
-     construction of technical and operational buildings
-     construction of standpipes and fountains
-     drilling, lining and equipping of wells



- 60 -
Annex III
page 2 of 4
b)   Electricity distribution
-    connections and meter installation
-    construction of substations (60 kv maximum)
-    installation of feeders and connecting lines
-    installation of first and second class distribution network
-    construction of power plants and installation of generating
sets (300 KVA maximum)
-    construction of technical and operational buildings for the
distribution networks
c)   Liquid waste disposal
-    construction of sewers and structures
-    construction of secondary and tertiary drains
-    construction of discharge and intake stations
=    procurement of drain cleaning and flushing equipment
-    construction of purification plants
d)   Solid waste disposal
-    construction of residential-waste treatment plants
=    purchase of compactor dumptrucks
-    purchase of dumptrucks
purchase of dumpster transporters
-    purchase of dumpsters and containers
-    purchase of compactors
-    purchase of special equipment for public landfills
procurement of tools and equipment
e)   Urban transportation
-    construction of technical and operational buildings
-    construction of depots
-    procurement of technical workshop equipment
-    procurement of transportation vehicles
-    construction of bus shelters
f)   Productive facilities
-    construction of slaughterhouses
-    construction of wholesale markets
-    construction of cold storage facilities
-    construction of local markets
-    construction and development of souks
-    construction of bus stations (only if owned by the commune)
-    construction of swimming pools
-    construction of cafes, bread ovens and public steam baths
-    construction of beach facilities (changing rooms,
public showers)



- 61 -                      Annex III
page 3 of 4
g)   Urban development (the same for the rural centers)
-    sites and services in industrial areas
-    roads development including structures and bridges
-    sidewalk development, with curbs
-    parking areas (for hire, lease or sale)
-    sites and services projects within the commune
-    sites and services projects in tourist and camping areas
h)   Financing of the studies
-    studies necessary to the preparation of projects to be
financed by the FEC
-    planning study on commune develcpment
Other projects deemed necessary by the Government could be financed
by FEC using managed resources specifically earmarked by the Government for
this purpose.
II.  PROJECT FINANCING CRITERIA
FEC shall appraise and finance projects on the basis of their
socio-economic merit, financial viability and technical performance according
to appraisal criteria adopted by FEC in each individual sector. Within the
framework of such appraisal, FEC shall, to the extent possible, provide
technical assistance to its borrowers in the preparation and execution of
projects. It shall monitor the execution of these projects and the use of
funds in accordance with the objectives of the respective loans.
III.  OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL POLICIES
The financial aid provided by FEC to the local authorities consists
of medium and long-term loans.
FEC's financial policy is designed to consolidate its equity base,
develop its borrowing capacity to meet the needs of the local authorities, and
yield an operating result sufficient to increase its reserves, finance its
studies fund and set up adequate provisions particularly against its unsecured
portfolio.
FEC shall have its accounts audited yearly by certified accountants.
IV. TERMS OF FINA4ING
a)   Terms of loans, grace periods, interest rates and fees
The maturities of FEC's loans are determined according to the
nature and requirements of the projects financed. The borrower's financing
capacity may also be taken into account. FEC loans are generally granted for
maturities not exceeding 15 years, including grace periods of up to 3 years.



- 62 -                      Annex III
page 4 of 4
The interest rates charged on FEC's loans are determined on the
basis of the costs of borrowing by FEC so as to ensure FEC's financial
viability.  FEC's current interest rates amount to 8.5% per annum.
FEC may charge an annual commitment fee of up to 1% on the
undisbursed portion of its commitments.
b)   Size of loans
In accordance with the Government's plans to intensify assistance
to the rural communes, FEC would assign priority to projects requiring loans
equal or less than DH6.5 million. FEC would, however, not grant loans in
amounts less than DH100,000.



FEC - COMMUNAL INFRASTRUCTURE FUND
Projected Distribution of Approvals by Sector and Type of Borrower (1982-86)
(Amounts in DlH millions)
Borrower/Sector                     1982                   1983                   1984                     1985                 1986
Total   No. of         Total    No. of        Total   No. of         Total    No. of        Total   No. of
Amount ProAects 1/   Amount Projects          Amount Projects        Amount Projects        Amount Projects
Rdgies
Water Supply                 22.8     2.0           27.3     2.4           32.5    2.8             39.0     3.4          46.6     4.1
Electrification              14.0     1.2           16.8     1.2           20.0      1.3           24.0     1.4          28.8     1.5
Transportation               12.2     1.7           12.6     1.8           15.0    2.1             18.0     2.6          21.8     3.0
Sub-Total                  49.0     4.9           56.7     5.4           67.5    6.2             81.0     7.4          97.2     8.6
Urban Communes
Sewerage                     42.0     6.1           50.4     6.4           60.0    6.6            72.0      6.9          86.4     7.1
Productive Facilities        15.8     b.9           14.7     5.7            17.5    5.8            21.0     6.0          25.2     6.3
Electrification and Other    15.7     5.4           14.7     4.5           17.5    4.6             21.0     4.8          25.2     5.0
Sub-Total                  73.5    18.4           79.8    16.b           95.0    17.0           114.0    17.7         136.8    18.4              a
Rural Commune s
Productive Facilities        24.5    20.4           33.6    25.8           40.0   26.7            48.0    28.2           57.b   28.8
Water Supply                 17.5    19.4           18.9    17.2           22.5    18.8            27.0    19.3          32.4   20.2
Electrification               3.5     5.8           12.6    18.0           15.0   17.6             18.0    20.0          21.6   21.6
Other                         7.0     5.8            8.4     6.5           10.0    6.7             12.0     7.1          14.4     7.2
Sub-Total                  52.5   51.4            73.5    67.5           87.5   69.8            105.0    74.6         126.0    77.8
TOTAL 2/               175.01/    75.0        210.0      90.0        250.0      93.0        300.0      100.0       360.0    105.0
===== _       ====       ====-==,=              === =        =====      ===         =====     ===5=        === -==
1/ Derived from estimates of average loan amounts.
2/ Totals rounded.
3/ Actual 160.0.  Breakdown by borrower and sector not available.
EMENA/ IDF
March 1983



- 64 -                           ANNEX IV-b
FEC - COMMUNAL INFRASTRUCTURE FUND
Projected Summary Balance Sheets 1982-86
(Amounts in DH millions)
1981     1982      1983      1984      1985     1986
(Ac tua l) (Provi-  ----------Projected------------
siona 1)
Assets
Current Assets
Cash                            1.0       2.9       1.2       1.4      1.6       1.8
Accounts Receivable            16.4      16.2      13.9     27.2      51.8      72.3
Current portion of
Loan Portfolio               90.2    103.2    105.9    105.6    112.2    120.0
Loan Portfolio                  503.1    490.8    794.4    941.1  1,121.3  1,333.1
Less current portion          (90.2)  (103.2)  (105.9)  (105.6)  (112.2)  (120.0)
Less provisions for risk        -         -        -        (1.2)    (4.2)    (6.7)
Other Assets                      2.4       0.8       2.5       2.5      2.5       2.5
Total Assets             522.9    510.7    812.0    9=71.Q  1,17 3U0  1i*4Q3=.8
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable               22.5      64.1      17.2     30.1      53.1      70.4
Discount Notes (CDG & CB)   392.0    337.4    534.0    587.0    612.0    629.0
Long-term loans                  43.2      40.0    188.0    252.0    375.0    535.0
(local and foreign)
Equity
Capital                        51.0      51.0      51.0     71.0      91.0    111.0
Reserves                       14.2      18.2      21.8     30.9      41.9      57.4
Total Liabilities        =22.9   =510.7   =812.0    971.0  1,173.0  1,403.0
EMENA/ IDF
March 1983



- 65 -                         ANNEX IV-c
FEC - COMMUNAL INFRASTRUCTURE FUND
Projected Summary Income Statemenits 1982-86
(Anounts in DH million)
1981     1982      1983      1984     1985      1986
( Actua 1) (Provi-     --------Projected------------
siona 1)
Income
Interest on Loans                32.7      32.9     54.7      73.2      95.6    122.7
Commitment charges                 -         -        0.6      1.4       1.7       2.0
Total Income              32.7     32.9      5.5.3     74.6      97.3    124.7
Expenses
Bond issues fees                  0.1       0.1       0.4      0.6       0.8       1.1
Interest on borrowings           22.2      24.1     43.9      55.4      72.2      91.5
Discount notes fees               3.4       3.1       4.2      4.8       5.1       5.3
Commitment fees                    -         -        0.2      0.3       0.4       0.6
Administrative expenses           1.4       1.7       2.8      3.2       3.6       4.0
Total Expenses           27.1      29.0      51.5      64.3     82.1    102.5
Operating Profit                    5.6       3.9       3.8      10.3     15.2      22.2
(Less provisions for risk)         -         -         -      (1.2)    (4.2)    (6.7)
Net Profit                          5.        =3.9      3.8      9-1                 15-=
EME NA/IDIF
March 1983



- 66 -                    ANNEX V
page 1 of 2
CAISSE DE DEPOT ET DE GESTION
FONDS D'EQUIPEMENT COMMUNAL
ADVISOR(S)
TERMS OF REFERENCE
The Fonds d'Eguipement Communal (FEC) is a public establishment with
juridical status and financial autonomy, the object of which is to grant loans
or advances for the financing of infrastructure works, to the prefectures and
provinces, the urban and rural communes, their associations (syndicats) and
public utility authorities (Regies communales).
The activities of FEC fall within the framework of the priorities
established by the government of Morocco. FEC financing extends to the
projects that generate revenues for the local authorities and the Regies, and
covers infrastructure, productive facilities and various types of development
works.
FEC, which operates in close collaboration with the pertinent public
services, proposes to intensify its technical assistance to the local
authorities and help with the preparation, appraisal and supervision of their
projects according to established criteria of economic merit, financial
viability and technical feasibility. For this purpose, and as part of the
strengthening of its organization, staffing and procedures, FEC wishes to
retain the services of high-level advisor(s) for about two years.
PROFILE AND QUALIFICATIONS
The advisor(s) shall have a background in engineering, economics, or
finance with at least ten years of professional experience, acquired
preferably in a consulting firm or a development finance institution. They
shall demonstrate a thorough and confirmed knowledge of the process of
appraising infrastructure and community facility projects. A knowledge of the
operations and finances of the local authorities would be an asset.  A full
command of French is essential.
DUTIES
The advisor(s) shall be attached to the Director of FEC, under whose
authority they shall carry out their duties.
Thus, within the framework of the application of the new operating methods
and procedures introduced in connection with the projects submitted for FEC
financing, the advisor(s) shall provide assistance to FEC in the following:



- 67 -                        ANNEX V
page 2 of 2
(i) the review of dossiers, including quality of feasibility studies, and
completion as required of studies and preparatory work to allow the
appraisal by FEC of project proposals;
(ii)  the appraisal of projects in accordance with technical, economic and
financial criteria adopted by FEC for various infrastructure and
productive projects with particular emphasis on lowest-cost
solutions, profitability, cost recovery, etc.;
(iii)  the monitoring of the execution of FEC-assisted projects and design
and implementation of appropriate supervision methods;
(iv)  the preparation of an operational manual comprising detailed formats
for project financing applications, appraisal and supervision
reports, as well as technical notes or the methodology of project
analysis including useful ratios;
(v) the programming of the review of financing applications, and the
sectoral grouping of dossiers with the objective of making optimal
use of technical consultants whom may be called upon for assistance
by FEC.
The advisor(s) shall also contribute to;
(i) the design of training programs for FEC personnel in project analysis
and supervision methods. In this connection, the advisor(s) shall
organize seminars to be given by experts from consulting firms or
training institutes, and furnish a description of the required
profiles for FEC staffing requirements;
(ii)  the development of internal monitoring procedures and a management
information system;
(iii)  The preparation of specific studies on subjects on which the Director
of FEC may require advice, relating either to the field of projects
or to the broader field of work organization.
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
The advisor(s) will be hired by FEC for a period of one to two
years. After a three-months of probation, the contracts, initially concluded
for one year, will include a clause for extension, by mutual agreement, for
one additional year.



- 68 -                          Annex VI
FEC - Communal Infrastructure Fund
Project File
Reference 1.    Law of FEC
Reference 2.    Internal organization of FEC
Reference 3.    FEC's audited financial statements for 1979 and 1980
Reference 4.    Sectoral distribution of FEC's operations (1973-81)
Reference 5.    FEC's operations: number of projects and average loan size
Reference 6.    Geographic distribution of FEC's operations by borrower
(1978-82)
Reference 7.    Law of CDG
Reference 8.    CDG's annual reports
Reference 9.    1976 Regulations for Public Sector procurement
Reference 10.   Structure of interest rates in Morocco as of April 1982
Reference 11.   Terms of reference for Technical Consultants.



