Document ofeo
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3510-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$16.0 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
PILOT PROJECT FOR COMMUNAL INFRASTRUCTURE FUND
April 4, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may he used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Dirham (DH)
US$l = DH 6.25
DH I = US$o.l6
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 3]
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BNDE =  Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique
CDG  =  Caisse de Dep5ts et de Gestion
FEC  =  Fonds d'Equipement Communal
FDCL =  Fonds de Developpement des Communaut6s Locales
FSDR =  Fonds Special de Developpement Regional
LC   =  Local Commune
MOI  =  Ministry of Interior



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PILOT PROJECT FOR THE COMMUNAL INFRASTRUCTURE FUND (FEC)
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Kingdom of Morocco
Beneficiary:         Fonds d'Equipement Communal (FEC)
Amount:              US$16.0 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:               17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Re-lending
Terms:             The Government would on-lend US$16.0 million equivalent of
the Bank loan to FEC at an interest rate of 11.5% per
annum for 17 years, including four years of grace. About
$15 million would be relent to local communes and public
utility and transport authorities (Regies) at a rate
acceptable to the Bank and at terms up to 14 years,
including three years of grace. The Government would
assume the foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
Project Objectives
and Description:- The project aims at developing the capacity of FEC to act
as an effective channel of financing for local communes.
The project would provide a line of credit and technical
assistance to FEC to help finance revenue-earning
infrastructure projects. In view of the insufficient
appraisal and supervision capability of FEC and the
inadequate personnel and financial resources of the local
communes, the project is designed on a pilot basis,
focusing on strengthening FEC as an institution. The
project would increase the availability of water supply
and sewerage, electricity, urban development and
transportation, as well as warehouses, markets and
slaughterhouses in local communes dispersed throughout
Morocco. The main project risk is related to the
difficulty the local communes may have in implementing the
sub-projects. The appraisal criteria and technical
assistance provided under the project would, however,
ensure the viability of projects eligible for FEC's
financing, and FEC's supervision would help improve their
implementation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated
Disbursement:           Bank FY    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
-----------------USt Million----------------
Annual               0.9      3.3     4.7      3.6      2.0      1.5
Cumulative           0.9     4.2      8.9    12.5    14.5    16.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 4186-MOR dated April 1, 1983.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$16.0 MILLION
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO FOR A
PILOT PROJECT FOR THE COMMUNAL INFRASTRUCTURE FUND
1.       I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed loan
*          to the Government of Morocco for the equivalent of US$16.0 million, including
the capitalized front-end fee, to help finance a Pilot Project for Communal
Infrastructure Fund. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including four
years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The proceeds of the
loan would be onlent to the Fonds d'Equipement Communal for 17 years,
including four years of grace, with an interest rate of 11.5% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A basic economic mission visited Morocco in November 1978, and
updating missions in September and December 1979 and in May 1980. A report
entitled "Morocco: Basic Economic Report" (3289-MOR) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in December 1980. A report on Morocco's Public Sector
Investment Program for 1981-85 is expected to be distributed to the Board
shortly. An economic mission on industrial incentives and export promotion
was in Morocco in September 1982. Country and Economic Data Sheets are
attached as Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Compared with many developing countries, Morocco is well endowed with
natural resources. Morocco has the world's largest and most easily
recoverable phosphate reserves, which makes the phosphate sector a key export
sector. Other minerals such as iron ore, manganese, lead and zinc are also
exported, but in much smaller amounts. Coal and hydropower plants satisfy
*          only a small part of the country's energy requirements, but Morocco has some
uranium and oil shale resources which could become significant energy sources
in the long term. There are moreover preliminary indications of natural gas
reserves.  Morocco has also a relatively good agricultural potential.  In
addition, Morocco's proximity to Europe has favored trade, tourism and lahor
migration with the EEC countries.
1/ Parts 'I and II are essentially the same as in the Oulmes-Rommani
Agricultural Development Project (Report No. P-3413-MOR of November 22,
1982).



- 2 -
4.       During the first 15 years after independence (1956), a conservative
approach to economic policy predominated in Morocco, and GDP increased at an
average rate of 4% a year in the 1960s. A relatively weak savings effort and
conservative external borrowing policies permitted only a slow rise in the
share of resources allocated to investment. Morocco thus entered the 1970s
with no major financial imbalances, but a relatively limited growth capacity.
Although some industrialization bad taken place, over half of the labor force
was employed in the relatively inefficient traditional agricultural sector,
and primary products accounted for close to 90% of merchandise exports, with
phosphates representing about a quarter of the total.
Economic Expansion in the Mid-1970s
5.       During the 1970s, economic policy became more ambitious, and the
original 1973-77 Development Plan strategy stressed an intensified savings
effort and development of exports. In 1974, with the sudden jump in phosphate
prices, phosphate export earnings more than quadrupled, and although the
petroleum import bill also quadrupled in 1974, the current account of the
balance of payments remained in surplus. The Plan's concern for exports and
savings lost some of its urgency. The Government launched a massive public
investment program which brought about a sharp acceleration in the rate of
growth of the economy, and GDP grew at the rate of 6.7% per year between
1973-1977. The expansion of the investment program also led to a considerable
increase in demand for imported goods and services, whose share in GDP doubled
from 19% in 1972 to 37% in 1977.
6.       The phosphate boom, however, was shortlived and phosphate exports
started falling in both volume and value as early as mid-1975. Phosphate
prices continued to decline until 1980. Markets for other exports as well as
for tourism and labor migration were also negatively affected by the world
recession. Agricultural production and exports entered a period of prolonged
stagnation and Morocco turned from a net exporter to a net importer of
foodstuffs. As a result of all these factors, the growtb of exports of goods
and nonfactor services,-which in constant prices had exceeded 8% a year in
1968-72, averaged only 1% a year in 1973-77.
7.       Accelerated investment, growing public expenditures, and particularly
increased defense spending in response to growing tensions in the Western
Sahara, created strong pressures on both the balance of payments and the
Government budget. While investment jumped from about 15% of GDP in the early
1970s to 32% in 1977, gross domestic savings rose briefly from 15% of GDP in
1972 to 20% of GDP in 1974 thanks to phospbate receipts, but fell back to
10-12% in 1976-77.  The large resource gap which emerged as early as 1975 rose
to an unsustainable 20% of GDP in 1977 (in current prices). To help finance
the gap, Morocco borrowed heavily from the international capital market, which
led to rapid increases in external debt and the debt service burden. The debt
service ratio rose from 5.6% of exports of goods and services in 1975 to 10.7%
in 1977.



- 3 -
8.       The Government's overall budget position also deteriorated
considerably during the period 1973-77. While budgetary revenues increased
rapidly as a result of the windfall phosphate profits in 1974 and 1975 and of
the growth of import duties and taxes in following years (reaching 22% of GDP
in 1977), the growth of expenditure far exceeded that of revenues. Budgetary
outlays rose from 19% of GDP in 1972 to 39% in 1977. As a result, the
Government's overall budget deficit increased sharply, reaching peaks of 18%
of GDP in 1976 and 1977.
Stabilization Program 1978-1980
9.        In order to redress the rapidly deteriorating financial situation,
the Moroccan Government in 1978 adopted a three-year stabilization program,
characterized by a substantial retrenchment of investment and import levels.
In 1978, the first year of the adjustment, public investment was cut back by
nearly half in real terms and the growth of current budgetary expenditure held
down to 3% (in real terms). These measures of fiscal restraint were combined
with tight credit policies and stringent import controls.  As a result, the
overall budget deficit declined to about 10% of GDP and the external payments
situation improved in 1978. Later, bowever, the stabilization program
encountered a number of obstacles, including poor harvests, petroleum price
increases and the rise in interest on the commercial debt. In addition,
internal pressures led to some relaxation of the highly restrictive fiscal
policy adopted in 1978. By 1980 both fiscal and external imbalances were
still substantial: the resource gap (in current prices) remained at about 11%
of GDP, and the ratio of the overall budget deficit to GDP at about 12%.
10.      The reduction in the Government deficit during the 1978-80 period was
achieved cbiefly through cutbacks in the level of budgetary investments, which
dropped from 27% of GDP in 1977 to 12% in 1980. The growth of current
expenditure proved difficult to restrain because of the continuing need to
maintain defense and social expenditures, the growing interest payments on the
public debt and the rising cost of consumption subsidies. The latter tripled
in 1979-80 reaching 2% of GDP, as price increases for subsidized staple food
and petroleum products could not catch up with the rise in import costs for
these products. Reflecting these pressures, the growth of current expenditure
reached 27% in 1980 and their share of GDP represented 22%.
11.      In the external sector, non-oil imports were reduced substantially
and remained below the 1977 level in nominal terms due to a sharp reduction in
capital goods imports (by about two-thirds in real terms between 1977 and
*           1980).  Oil imports on the other hand increased 2.5 times in value due to
price and volume increases. Export earnings improved in 1979 and received a
significant boost from the recovery of phosphate prices in 1980. Thus,
despite a large increase in the petroleum import bill and a rise in external
debt interest payments, the current account deficit before grants was reduced
from $1.8 billion, or 17% of GDP, in 1977 to about $1.4 billion, or 8% of GDP,
in 1980.



-4-
12.      The adverse impact of the stabilization program on employment has
probably been substantial in contrast with the rapid rate of employment
creation during 1973-77. On the whole, the policies followed since 1978 have
had a high cost in terms of growth and employment and appear to have been only
partly successful in their short-term stabilization objectives.
Recent Developments
13.      In 1981, the economy was subjected to strong external shocks:  a
substantial increase of imports of cereals, following a drought which reduced
agricultural value added by about 23% in real terms; a large appreciation of
the US dollar; and a rise in foreign interest rates, which further increased
the cost of debt service.  As a result of these factors, economic and
financial performance worsened. Gross domestic product fell by 1.3% in real
terms, the Treasury deficit reached 14% of GDP in 1981, and the current
account deficit reached $l.9 billion in 1981 (12.6% of GDP). Economic
activity improved in 1982 as agricultural production recovered thanks to a
good harvest, but phosphate prices weakened. adversely affecting export
earnings. GDP is estimated to have increased by 5 to 6% in real terms but the
external payments situation has not improved significantly. The budgetary
situation improved somewhat as a result of a combination of tax increases and
expenditure restraining the measures adopted in the framework of a stand-by
agreement reached with the IMF in April 1982, but the Treasury deficit remains
high.
Medium Term Prospects
14.      The initial development strategy in the 1981-,85 Plan period was to
reach a high rate of GDP growth (6.5%), needed to obtain an acceleration of
employment creation and a strengthening of Government programs for social and
regional development. The Plan projection was, however, too ambitious and
although the financial constraint lessened somewhat in 1982 as the economy
recovers from the 1981 drought, Morocco's external financial situation will
remain difficult in 1982-85 and will continue to constrain GDP growth.
15.      Bank projections for the 1981-85 Plan period are based on the
assumption that exports of goods and non-factor services could grow by 5.8% in
real terms, while imports of goods and non-factor services would be allowed to
rise by no more than 0.5% p.a. in real terms, as the need for food imports is
expected to diminish, the increase in capital goods and oil imports to slow
down, and payments for military equipment to be lower. Moreover, the growth
in investment expenditures would not exceed 3.1% p.a. in real terms.  Given
these assumptions, domestic savings could recover from the abnormally low 1981
level (7.8% of GDP) to reach 12.5 % of GDP in 1985, the resource gap would
gradually decline from 13.3% of GDP in 1981 to 7.5% in 1985, while GDP could
still grow at about 4.5% p.a. in real terms or just over 1% per capita.
16.      The projected export growth would result from an increase (in real
terms) of 6.6% in pbosphate and phosphate based products and 9.5% p.a. in
manufactured products between 1981-85. Such a performance would depend upon



- 5 -
identification of new markets and could be accomplished only if high priority
is given to export promotion. In the case of finished and intermediate
products, the extent to which the projected increase in exports would
materialize depends on the revision of incentives granted to exporters, the
diversification of Moroccan exports towards non-traditional exports and new
markets, and the appropriate level of the exchange rate.
17.      A sustained reduction of the trade gap will be difficult to achieve
unless growth of merchandise imports is drastically curtailed. This would
require not only a higher increase in agricultural output so that the level of
food imports would decline in real terms, but also an effective domestic
pricing policy so as to limit the growth of petroleum imports (assumed at 1.3%
p.a.) from 1981 to 1985. It would require moreover a reduction of the capital
goods imports growth to 1.8% p.a. in 1981-85 through cuts in Treasury civilian
investment with respect to the level planned in the 1981-85 Plan, and a
revision of the various investment codes so as to reduce financial incentives
to imported capital goods.
18.      In view of the projected stagnation in per capita household incomes,
any significant increase in domestic savings would mainly come from
substantial improvements in Government savings performance. As part of the
1982 stand-by arrangement between Morocco and the IMF, several measures and
reductions in real Government expenditures were implemented in 1982. The
Bank's projections assume that progress will continue in this area.
19.      Given the strong constraints on investment levels, the future rate of
growth of the economy will depend to a large extent on the sectoral allocation
and the efficiency of investment. In conformity with the Plan objectives, the
Government should start fewer large capital-intensive projects and restrict
the allocation of investments to priority subsectors.   Priority is to be
given to projects that are export oriented, less capital intensive and which
use a greater proportion of domestic resources. In addition, particular
attention will have to be paid by the Government to manpower planning and to
the employment effect of investments in order to prevent unemployment from
rising.
Social Development
0          20.       Social expenditures have been at a high level in recent years,
accounting for more than half of current outlays. However, social indicators
still appear to be at a relatively low level in Morocco. The limited
effectiveness of past social policies in reaching the lower income groups,
especially in rural areas, is increasingly recognized as a major issue, and
the strategy of the 1981-85 Development Plan emphasizes rural development in
rainfed areas, where most of the poorest households in Morocco currently live,
and the need to improve mechanisms for delivering services to meet basic needs
at an affordable cost, especially in rural areas. An effort is also being
made to increase the involvement of local communities in meeting basic needs,
particularly for low cost housing, water supply, sewerage and
electrification. Although rapid results cannot be expected in any of these



- 6 -
areas, implementation of these policies would help meet the needs of
low-income groups, while holding down the budgetary cost of social programs.
External Debt and Debt Service
210      Morocco sharply increased external borrowings after 1974.  Nearly all
of the increase came from Arab and commercial sources. Morocco also drew on
the IMF automatic credit facilities in early 1976, and obtained about $70
million in IMF compensatory financing in August 1978. In October 1980, the
IMF approved an extended arrangement for a three-year period in the amount of
SDR 810 million in support of a medium term program of financial adjustment.
This arrangement was interrupted in 1981 when it appeared that the assumptions
and targets of the EFF program were no longer possible. It was replaced in
1982 by a stand-by arrangement in the amount of SDR 281 million and purchase
of SDR 236 million under the Compensatory Financing Facility. The 1982
financial program, which was supported by the standby arrangement now drawing
to a close, sought to reduce the deficit in the current account of the balance
of payments (excluding grants) to 10% of GDP and to decrease the overall
Treasury deficit by one-third to 8% of GDP. Other major elements of the
program included an upward revision of the interest rate structure, restraint
in overall credit and monetary expansion, further trade liberalization, and
progress with respect to both tax reform and reform of the state enterprises.
Preliminary data indicates that the targets under the standby for end-1982
were met. The performance criteria of the program were observed and Morocco
was able to make the last drawing under the standby arrangement in February
1983. Discussions are underway of a possible further standby arrangement for
1983/84.
22.      From the low levels of 1974-75, Morocco's external debt rose rapidly
to $8.4 billion (disbursed only) by December 1981. Gross inflow of medium and
long term capital reached $1.8 billion in 1981. Debt service amounted to $1.2
billion in 1980, $1.3 billion in 1981 and $1.5 billion in 1982 (27%, 31% and
35% respectively, of total exports of goods and services). As a result of
recent and projected borrowings, debt service may be expected to average $1.8
billion annually during 1982-85. Because of the growing burden of debt
service, external borrowing has become more restrictive and selective since
1978. If debt service is to stay manageable, the Government will have to
continue this policy over the next few years while taking special measures to
expand exports.
23.      Loan commitments from multilateral and bilateral official sources to
Morocco rose from $205 million in 1975 to $1368 million in 1978. In 1979-80
they have averaged $700-800 million a year (excluding grants). In 1981 they
are estimated at $1759 million. Major sources of aid were France, Saudi
Arabia, the UAE, the U.S., Germany and the Bank Group. At the end of 1981,
the Bank Group's share in Morocco's outstanding and disbursed external public
debt was 7.5%. The share of the Bank Group in debt service was 21% in 1976
and declined to 15% in 1977, and 7% in 1981.  By 1985 the Bank Group's shares
in debt outstanding and in debt service are projected at about 10 and 11%
respectively.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
24.      Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 61 projects, financing
a total of $2,109.7 million (net of cancellations), of which $1,351.5 million
has been lent since the beginning of FY1978. IDA credits, totalling
$50 million, have been made available for five projects and a Third Window
loan for $25 million has been made for an education project. IFC investments
have amounted to $61.6 million ($41.6 million after cancellations,
terminations, repayments and sales). Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments and notes on the execution of
ongoing IBRD/IDA projects as of February 28, 1983. Overall performance in
project execution is satisfactory, although in some cases, delays in project
implementation have been caused by management problems and budgetary
constraints.
25.      Past Bank Group lending bas been concentrated in the agricultural and
industrial sectors, which have accounted for 28 percent and 26 percent,
respectively of total commitments; the balance is represented by utilities (16
percent), tourism (9 percent), education (8 percent), roads (6 percent),
energy (4 percent) and urban development (3 percent). The main objectives of
Bank lending in previous years were to foster and strengthen development
institutions and to increase productive capacity, in order to improve the
balance of payments. While these objectives remain, Bank lending now also
focuses on supporting a number of other policy objectives: to contribute to
the reduction of the Treasury deficits; to lower unit costs for the delivery
of basic services, widen their distribution among regions and increase access
by lower-income groups; and to increase employment and improve income
distribution.
26.      Since FY75, lending in agriculture has emphasized improvement in the
productivity of rainfed agriculture and livestock, which employ over 80
percent of the rural population, primarily small farmers. The Meknes and
Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Projects address this objective in the favorable
cereal producing zone. The Loukkos, Middle Atlas, Forestry and Oulmes-Rommani
projects extend support to less favorably endowed regions. Four lines of
credit to Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) have helped provide
credit to farmers, and a fifth project is under preparation.   An irrigation
project aims at development of small and medium schemes. Increased export
earnings are expected to result from the Bank-supported project for Vegetable
Marketing and Production, as well as from a project currently under
preparation to improve the efficiency of the coastal fishing industry. The
scope of future lending is likely to be expanded to include projects aimed at
improving input supply and marketing nationwide.
27.      Increased foreign exchange earnings or savings have also been the key
objectives of Bank projects in industry, mining and tourism and led to nine
lines of credit to the Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique
(BNDE) for industrial projects and four lines of credit to Credit Immobilier
et H8telier (CIH) for tourism projects. A project to increase mineral export
earnings and raise the incomes of small-scale miners in southeastern Morocco
was approved by the Board in FY82.



- 8 -
28.      Projects in basic infrastructure and services have concentrated on
improving the efficiency of existing investments and extending services to
rural and low-income urban groups. A second urban development project aims at
supporting the Government's efforts to provide shelter, basic services and
employment to low-income urban families and a third urban project is helping
to provide finance to low income housing. Two highway projects support the
Government's road maintenance efforts and improve rural access roads. A loan
for village electrification is helping bring power to over a hundred small
towns and villages, and a third water supply project is providing access to
safe water in small towns and semi-rural areas.
29.      Five education projects have focused on secondary level technical
education and teacher training, on expanding basic education in the rural
areas and on ensuring a greater orientation in primary schooling towards
practical training. Further lending will be focussed on vocational training
and on primary education.
30.      In order to reduce Morocco's dependence on oil imports, the
Government has made considerable efforts to develop national resources,
notably of gas and oil shale. These efforts are being supported by the Bank
through a first gas exploration project and an engineering project aimed at
studying the viability of developing the country's oil shale resources. A
second exploration and appraisal project is proposed, and additional projects
for further gas exploration, as well as coal and hydropower development, are
being studied.
31.      Morocco's disbursement performance improved in FY82.  Disbursement
shortfalls are, however, still being experienced, particularly for a few
projects in new sectors, due mainly to institutional or project management
problems. These cases are being closely monitored and implementation
schedules have been established specifying critical actions, in agreement with
the Government. In some projects, implementing agencies have been slow in
submitting disbursement requests to the Ministry of Finance for transmittal to
the Bank, but the Government has recently taken effective measures to resolve
this problem. The rate of disbursement has also been affected by the
appreciation of the dollar against other currencies.
PART III. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
Regional Development
32.      In terms of spatial distribution, growth in Morocco has been
concentrated mainly in a zone located in the center, north and northwest of
the country. Favorable climate and rainfall, the location of phosphate
deposits, and easy access to international transportation have resulted in
most of the country's development in industry and modern agriculture being
located in these regions. The development of other regions has moved at a
much slower pace. These economic imbalances are also accompanied by
disparities in income distribution and in access to public services.
33.      A study on regional distribution in Morocco showed that the urban
areas accounted for about 80% of the growth in GDP between 1960 and 1971; and



- 9 -
the northern regions generated three-quarters of the value added in industry
and more than half the value added in services. Per capita GDP in Casablanca
was 60% higher than the national average while in the east, south and
southwest of the country, per capita GDP only represented 74%, 55% and 50%,
respectively of the national average. The primary school enrollment rates are
five times lower in the south than in the central region. Regional
disparities can also be found in public services, such as health, where there
are 10,000 inhabitants per doctor in the central and western regions in
comparison to 20,000 in the other regions; and in infrastructure, where the
density of highway networks in the central and northwestern regions are more
than 100% of the national average and in the south 38% of the national
average.  While most of the urban population has access to potable water, only
25% of the rural population are provided with this service.  About one-half of
the urban population have access to electricity compared to 6% of the rural
population. Although updated data on regional development is not yet
available, there are indications that disparities have been growing. The
consumption of the poorest 10% of households acounted only for 1.2% of total
consumption in 1970 as compared to 3.3% in 1960.
34.      The Government has long recognized the growing regional, urban and
rural disparities, but it is only since the mid-seventies that serious efforts
have been made to reduce them. Among measures to improve regional development
are the establishment of industrial development poles outside the Casablanca -
Kenitra corridor, the improvement of accessibility to social services such as
health and education in rural areas, the reliance on public autonomous
agencies for the distribution of water and electricity and transport, and the
improvement of communal development financing.
Local Government:  Administrative Structure andPlann
35.      The communes are the basic local government units.  A commune's
administrative structure consists of elected members of a Commune Council and
a local executive official appointed by the Ministry of Interior (MOI). At
present, there are 849 communes, of which 90% or 763 are rural. The communes
depend heavily on the MOI for both administrative and financial assistance,
but there is a marked difference between the urban and rural communes. The
former generally have competent technical staff and can basically finance some
of their operating costs out of their own resources while the latter are
seriously deficient in both fields. In the urban communes, there are several
public autonomous agencies (Regies) which are entrusted by law with the
distribution of water and electricity and with the provision of public
transport.  At present, there are about 20 Regies which are well organized
with competent technical staff and are financially self-supporting. Their
operating costs and a substantial part of their development programs are
covered through sales revenues.
36.      The next level of local administration is the province of which there
are 47. Responsibilities for the provincial administration are divided
between an elected Provincial Assembly and the Governor. The province has no
financial resources of its own and is entirely funded through Government
subsidies. The Governor, appointed by the King, is responsible for the



- 10 -
coordination of the activities of the central ministries and agencies
established in the provinces, for supervision of the communes and for
execution of expenditures financed by the "Local Community Development Fund"
and the "Special Regional Development Fund" (para. 40). He reports directly
to the MOI and is advised by a Provincial Technical Committee consisting of
local representatives of the central ministries in his province. The MOI has
a two-fold role to play: that of maintaining public order through provincial
and communal police operations, and that of supervising the local
authorities. The latter is focused on accounting and budgetary control, while
organization and management of the financial resources needed to meet local
needs are the main concern of the elected councils.
37.      The 1981-85 Plan calls for an increased role for the LCs in planning
their own development programs. The communes establish local investment
priorities whicb are submitted to the Governor and then to the MOI. Within
the framework of national and regional priorities, the investment proposals of
the communes are examined by the Ministries of Planning and Finance, where
budget limits are defined for each province and commune. Investment proposals
are then adjusted by the communes to fit the defined budget limits. While
this planning process theoretically caters to the particular needs and
priorities of individual LCs, its effectiveness faces several constraints.
First, the LCs lack planning and implementing capacity and second, allocation
of financial resources decided at the central level is often much less than
the communes' requirements. Steps have been taken by the Government to
reinforce the LCs, particularly by strengthening technical staff (about 100
engineers, 1,200 technical agents, and 1,400 administrative agents would be
trained and appointed by 1985 to LCs) and by increasing local financial
resources. In the intermediate term, the Government has used foreign experts
through bilateral aid programs and private consultant firms to help prepare
and implement the LCs' projects.
Communal Development Financing
38.      The 1981-85 investment program for LCs contained proposals totalling
DH 1,943 million ($311 million) in 1981 and increasing to DH 3,400 million
($544 million) in 1985. These proposals are far too ambitious in comparison
to the LCs' implementation capability, and they are being revised downward.
There are three sources of finances: (a) the LCs' own resources; (b)
budgetary allocations through the Local Community Development Fund (FDCL) and
Special Regional Development Fund (FSDR); and (c) the Communal Infrastructure
Fund (FEC). The share of each of these types of funds in the financing plan
of the LCs' annual investment programs is proposed each fiscal year by the LCs
and the province at the time of budget preparation. After having overall
budget approval, the LCs select projects suitable for each type of financing.
FEC's resources are exclusively reserved to finance revenue-generating
projects for which allocations under other sources of grant financing have not
been made, and after the LCs have committed all the funds provided under (a)
and (b).
39.      The bulk of the communes' own resources stems from property taxes and
revenue earning projects, but these revenues are relatively modest and skewed



- 11 -
towards urban areas.   In most rural LCs, the own resources only cover about
50% of operating expenditures. Current deficit and investment expenditures
are covered by the Government's budgetary allocations. These allocations are
primarily subsidies, and to a limited extent, include revenues collected by
the Government on behalf of the LCs. The Government is now working towards a
fiscal reform which would rationalize the redistribution of local revenues
collected by the central Government. The objective is to make the LCs
self-supporting in current expenditures and increasingly finance part of
capital expenditures.
40.      The Local Community Development Fund (FDCL), operated by MOI, was
created in 1976, for financing LCs' capital expenditures and received an
initial contribution of DH 1 billion ($160 million) for 1979-80. The Plan has
allocated about DH 3 billion ($480 million) in 1981-85 for FDCL which is
substantially less than the projected requirements of the LCs. In addition,
the Special Regional Development Fund (FSDR), established in 1973 with an
initial appropriation of DH 300 million ($48 million), is used to finance
small-scale infrastructure and services in the least developed regions. The
FSDR's role is declining as it has been overshadowed by the FDCL. For the
period 1981-85, it was projected that about 65% of LCs' investment
requirements would be financed by FDCL and FSDR, 20% by FEC and 15% by LCs'
own resources and the Regies internal cash generation.
The Institution: FEC
41.      Organization.  FEC was founded in 1959 to extend loans to local
communes, and to public utility and transport authorities. Management of FEC
is entrusted to the Caisse de Depots et Gestion (CDG). CDG, an autonomous
public financial institution headed by a General Director, is a well managed
and profitable institution with competent staff. CDG is responsible for
managing various other public funds, such as the National Insurance and
Retirement Fund, the National Savings Fund, and the Pension Fund. CDG's
assets amounted to DH 3,946 million ($631 million) in 1981. It extends
financing in the form of equity and bond subscriptions in the fields of
housing, tourism, industry, transportation and communal development. Although
FEC is managed by the CDG, its accounts are separate from those of CDG. FEC
is authorized to borrow with Government guarantee.
42.      FEC's chief executive is the Director General of CDG who holds
substantial control over the policy and operations of FEC. He also approves
all of FEC's loans upon recommendations of a Technical Committee which
includes two ex-officio members from the MOI, and two from the Ministry of
Finance. Administrative responsibilities including the organization of work
teams, review of loan requests, follow-up on loan disbursements and
repayments, and the preparation of FEC's budget are de facto delegated to the
Director of FEC. The present Director is knowledgeable in administrative,
public finance and local commune matters. He has less experience in project
analysis. The personnel allocated to FEC is insufficient, in number and
experience, to carry out its proposed functions effectively. Furthermore,
their functions are not clearly separated between project evaluation and
accounting tasks. FEC's organization and staffing would be strengthened under
the project (paras. 58-59).



- 12 -
43.      Policies and Procedures.  Although FEC generally finances
revenue-generating projects, it does not have formalized operating
procedures. Decisions on lending are being made on the basis of informally
established operating guidelines and cursory appraisal of projects. Project
preparation and implementation have essentially been carried out by the local
authorities and public agencies with no technical assistance from FEC. There
are no systematic appraisal criteria and little supervision of projects
financed by FEC has been done so far. The project would aim at defining
policies for FEC's operations and improving its lending and supervision
procedures (paras. 60-61).
44.      Operations and Finances.  FEC's operations have expanded considerably
in recent years. Between 1977 and 1980, FEC's loan approvals grew at an
annual rate of 70%, increasing from DH 35.4 million ($5.5 million) for 7 loans
in 1977 to DH 171 million ($27.5 million) for 37 loans in 1980. Total
approvals in 1981 fell to DH 103 million ($16.5 million) due mainly to a shift
in investment priorities following the serious drought that hit Morocco that
year but increased to DH 160 million ($25.6 million) in 1982. The sectoral
distribution over the period 1977-81 was as follows: (i) in the case of the
LCs, 48% of the financing went for sewerage, 30% for productive facilities,
20% for various infrastructure works, and 2% for water supply; and (ii) in the
case of the Regies, 51% for water supply, 23% for electricity, and 26% for
transport.
45.      Over the period of 1982-86, FEC's loan approvals had been projected
to grow from DH 280 million ($45 million) to DH 800 million ($128 million).
These projections were, however, too ambitious and have been revised downwards
by FEC and the Bank. The new projections forecast a loan approval level of
DH 210 million ($33.6 million) in 1983, growing thereafter at 20% per annum in
current terms, to reach DH 360 million ($58 million) in 1986. FEC intends to
focus more on the rural communes, increasing its lending from an insignificant
share in the past to an annual average of 35% over 1982-86, while the urban
communes would receive 38% and the regies 27%. Sectorally, about 25% of FEC's
lending would be for sewerage projects, 22% for water supply, 22% for
productive facilities, 14% for electrification and the balance, 17%, for urban
development projects.
46.      As of end 1981, FEC's total assets amounted to DH 523 million
($83.7 million), including a loan portfolio .of DH 503 million
($80.5 million). These assets have been mainly funded by CDG's and Central
Bank's short-term discount notes of DH 392 million ($62.7 million), advances
from CDG of DH 23 million ($3.7 million), a long-term bond issue guaranteed by
the Government of DH 43 million ($6.9 million), and equity and retained
earnings of DH 65 million ($10.4 million). The financial structure is
imbalanced as FEC's long-term loan portfolio (up to 12 years) is mainly funded
by short.term discount notes. FEC is also undercapitalized, with a
debt-equity ratio of about seven. However, FEC's financial viability and
creditworthiness is guaranteed by CDG which manages FEC and is a viable
financial institution (para. 41).



- 13 -
47.      At present, FEC generally finances 100% of project cost at an
interest rate of 8.5% for up to 12 years. With a current lending rate of
8.5%, FEC has been able to generate moderate annual surpluses, given the low
overall cost (5.8%) of its borrowed resources. It has no provisions for risks
on its portfolio as the LCs' borrowings are Government guaranteed. However,
this is not applied to the borrowings from Regies. The financial quality of
FEC's portfolio is good with only one loan to a Regie in default. In this
case, FEC has suspended further lending to this particular Regie until the
outstanding amount is settled.
Bank Role and Lending Strategy
48.      This project would represent the Bank's first support to LCs'
investment needs through FEC. It is aimed at reinforcing the Government's
efforts to improve the efficiency of planned investments, extending services
to rural and low-income urban groups and promoting a more balanced regional
development. This effort would complement previous Bank lending to the
development of local infrastructure and social services in Morocco. In recent
years, this included urban development projects to provide shelter to low
income groups in Rabat (FY78), Meknes and Kenitra (FY81); and a housing
finance project for low income housings through the Credit Immobilier et
H8telier (FY83); a rural electrification project (FY79) to help bring
electricity to over a hundred small towns and villages; water supply projects
(FY79, FY81) to provide access to safe water in small towns and semi-rural
areas; and highway projects to support the Government's road maintenance
efforts and to improve rural access roads (FY80 and FY83). A project to
upgrade the sewerage system in Casablanca is under preparation. The proposed
project would widen the distribution of infrastructure and services, and at
the same time, strengthen the capacity of LCs to prepare and implement their
own development programs.
PART IV. THE PROJECT
Project Background
49.      The concept of a Bank loan to FEC arose out of the visit of a
Moroccan delegation to the Bank in March 1980 to request Bank assistance to
strengthen FEC, both financially and institutionally, in its expanded role of
promoter of communal development and financier of communal investments
throughout the country, and particularly in Morocco's least developed areas.
This intention to strengthen FEC as an institution for the LCs stems from the
Government's new policy to promote regional and communal development through
decentralization. A Bank identification mission visited Morocco in May 1980
to review the Government's objectives and plans of action regarding its
regional and communal development strategy, and in this context, FEC and its
expanded role. The project was appraised in June 1982, and negotiations were
held in Washington, DC on March 22, 1983. The Moroccan delegation was led by
Mr. Siraj. A Staff Appraisal Report No. 4186-MOR is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the loan and
project are listed in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.



- 14 -
Project Objective
50.      The ultimate objective of Bank lending in this area is to strengthen
local and regional investment planning and implementation capacity. In view
of the diversity in the level of economic development of some 850 communes,
the multisectoral nature of the LCs' investment plans, and the complexity of
the development planning process, this objective can only be achieved through
a gradual approach. The present project is thus limited to a first phase of
developing the capacity of FEC to act as an effective channel for financing
revenue-earning local infrastructure projects. The project does not address
the broader issues of local authority organization and financing. If it is
successful, further lending through FEC would be aimed at developing a
dialogue on these issues.
Project Description
51.      The project would consist of: (a) a line of credit to FEC for
financing revenue-earning infrastructure projects meeting specific technical,
financial and economic criteria; and (b) technical assisfance to FEC to help
strengthen its internal organization and operating procedures, with particular
emphasis on project preparation, evaluation and supervision.
52.      The line of credit would be used to finance about 35 sub-projects
dispersed throughout Morocco, in the sectors eligible for FEC's assistance,
including water and electricity distribution, sewerage, urban transportation
and development, and productive facilities such as warehouses, markets and
slaughterhouses. There would be users fees and/or direct taxes associated
with the implementation of sub-projects. In most sectors, except for sewerage
and for sub-projects costing below DH 0.5 million ($80,000), these charges
would cover fully operation and maintenance costs and amortization of capital
expenditures. The inclusion of several sectors and widespread geographic
coverage would help to provide a representative range of physical and
institutional conditions within which to test the applicability of the design
criteria. The sub-borrowers would be urban and rural communes and public
utility and transport authorities (the Regies). All projects assisted by FEC,
irrespective of the source of finance, would be subject to the selection,
appraisal, and supervision criteria developed in consultation with the Bank
(Project Agreement, Section 3.01). Particular emphasis would be given to the
projects' design and standards, cost recovery capacity, financial viability,
and where relevant, justification vis-a-vis the borrowing LC's financial
position. Satisfactory arrangements by the sub-borrowers for project
implementation and subsequent operation and maintenance would also be
addressed. In particular, in the water and electricity sectors, the proposed
loan would finance sub-projects operated or managed by the R6gies or national
agencies which have the technical capability to prepare and execute such
projects. MOI would also assist FEC in project supervision according to
policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.03).
53.      The technical assistance program would focus on (i) project
preparation, where the assistance of FEC to the LCs would be strengthened by



- 15 -
reviewing and completing the LCs' feasibility studies, particularly for
sub-projects in water and electricity sectors costing above DH 5 million
($0.8 million), and in sewerage sector; (ii) guidance to FEC's staff to ensure
compliance with the agreed appraisal criteria for sub-projects and in the
supervision of sub-projects; (iii) design of a training program for FEC's
staff; (iv) preparation of an operational manual detailing the role of FEC in
the project cycle; and (v) development of internal monitoring procedures and
of a management information system. FEC would utilize the services of
advisors for 24 months, and technical consultants (individual or firms) for
about 24 man-months at a cost of about $10,000 per man-month, including
international travel and subsistence. Employment of the advisor for assisting
FEC in appraising and supervising sub-projects would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(b), Project Agreement,
Section 2.07(a)(i)). Other advisors would be employed by October 1, 1983
(Project Agreement, Section 2.07 (a) (ii)). The technical consultants would
be engaged by January 1, 1984 to provide technical assistance and training to
FEC's staff in their specialization (Project Agreement, Section
2.07(a)(iii)). These experts would be selected according to Bank guidelines
and their qualifications, terms of reference and conditions of employment
would be satisfactory to the Bank (Project Agreement, Section 2.07(b)).
Project Financial Features
54.      Financial Plan.  The proposed $16.0 million loan would be made to the
Government at the standard Bank terms and conditions for Morocco (17 years
maturity, including four years of grace, and at variable interest rate).  The
proceeds of the loan would be on-lent by the Government to FEC at a fixed
interest rate of 11.5%, which is related to the present cost of FEC's
borrowings on the local bond market, and with the same maturity conditions as
the Bank's loan (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(c)).  The loan would cover about
15% of the borrowing needs projected for FEC during the period of 1983-86.
The Government would bear both the foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
Agreements on the on-lending terms and conditions of the Bank loan by the
Government to FEC would be incorporated in a Financing Agreement. The
execution of a Financing Agreement satisfactory to the Bank would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(a)). The
proposed loan would finance the foreign exchange costs of the sub-projects.
55.      FEC's on-lending arrangements.  Sub-loans would be made by FEC to the
communes and the Regies for up to 14 years including grace periods of up to
three years at an interest rate of 8.5% in 1983. However, in the medium-term,
FEC will have to increasingly rely on less concessionary funds and it would be
appropriate to increase the on-lending rate gradually to achieve a minimum
spread of 3% on the projected average cost of FEC's resources. FEC's interest
rate policy would be reviewed annually, starting in 1983, with the aim of
moving gradually towards achievement of this objective (Loan Agreement,
Section 4.02, Project Agreement, Section 2.08). The Government intends to
cause FEC to increase its lending rate to at least 10% by the end of 1983,
which is above the projected rate of inflation of 9%. While the Regies bear
the full interest cost on their loans, at present the LCs receive a 3%
interest subsidy on their borrowings from FEC. An increase in the on-lending



- 16 -
rate may lead to an increase in this subsidy. This would, however, have an
insignificant impact since such subsidies amount to less than 1% of the
Government budgetary allocations to the LCs. Furthermore, as the overall
envelope of Government financial allocations to the LCs is fixed each year, an
increase in interest subsidy would simply imply a decrease in other forms of
Government subsidies to the LCs, thus putting no additional burden on the
Treasury. Possible modification of interest policy for local authorities is
an issue which would need to be addressed in the context of longer term reform
of the overall structure of financing of local authorities. In the context of
this project, an understanding has been reached with the Government on the
objective to eventually eliminate interest rate subsidy.
56.      Disbursements and Procurement.  Loan proceeds would be disbursed as
following: (i) a maximum of 50% of total expenditures on sub-projects under
the line of credit; and (ii) 100% of foreign currency cost and 75% of local
currency cost for technical assistance. In the case of the line of credit,
disbursements will be made on the basis of certified statements of
expenditures submitted by FEC. Documentation for expenditures would be
retained by FEC for review by FEC's auditors and Bank representatives. FEC's
accounts and statement of expenditures would be audited by an independent
auditor (Project Agreement, Section 4.02). To allow for a sufficient number
of sub-projects to be refinanced out of the proceeds of the loan, there would
be limit on the total cost of a sub-project of a maximum amount of DH 6.5
million ($l.O million) when the sub-borrower is a local commune. When the
sub-borrower is a Regie, the maxium amount of Bank refinancing would be
DH 5 million ($0.8 million) since the size of a R6gie's project tends to be
large (Project Agreement, Schedule 1, Part 4(d)). All sub-projects to be
refinanced from the Bank loan would be submitted to the Bank for approval
(Loan Agreement, Section 2.03(a)(i)). The cut off date for loan submission
would be June 30, 1986 (Project Agreement, Section 2.03 (b)) and disbursements
would be expected to be completed by June 30, 1989 (Loan Agreement,
Section 2.04).
57.      As the total cost of most sub-projects would be small, and the
contracts would be limited and scattered in space and time, they would not be
suitable for international competitive bidding. They would be subject to the
Government procurement practices which allow for competitive bidding and are
satisfactory to the Bank. FEC's staff has developed good experience in
procurement practices and is able to scrutinize cost estimates, invoices and
other documents provided by the contractors. These procedures are
satisfactory and would be applied under the proposed project. FEC's present
disbursement practices are satisfactory.
Strengthening of FEC
58.      Organization.  Though FEC is broadly organized along two main
functional lines (project financing and accounting), the allocation of tasks
between them remains unclear (para. 42). The plan for reorganization of FEC,
effectively separating project appraisal and monitoring from financial
management and accounting, would be submitted to the Bank for its approval by
October 31, 1983 and (Project Agreement, Section 3.02(a)). It is also



- 17 -
expected that a small statistics and research unit would be created.
Consultants provided under the technical assistance program would be attached
to FEC (para. 53),
59.      Staff allocated to FEC would be increased.  Budget allocations have
been made and recruitment of staff has started to increase the existing total
staff from 20 in early 1982 to 35 by 1984, including the employment by
January 1, 1984 of two additional engineers, five economists/financial
analysts and three technical aides (Project Agreement, Section 3.02(b)). This
staffing pattern would permit processing about 60 sub-projects and supervising
about 120 sub-projects per year.   Staff training would be implemented with
the assistance of advisors and technical consultants. A training program
t         would be submitted to the Bank for its approval by January 1, 1984 (Project
Agreement, Section 3.02(c)).
60.      Policies.  FEC's lending policies are specified in a Statement of
Policy recently approved by CDG, which, inter alia, provides that, within the
framework of development plans, projects would be selected on the basis of
economic priority, financial viability, technical performance and social
merit. FEC should, furthermore, give priority to smaller projects in less
endowed rural areas.
61.      Procedures.  A main focus of the project is to set up coherent
operating procedures for FEC, particularly as regards project processing. It
is thus intended to prepare an operational manual with the assistance of the
previously mentioned adviser (para. 53). The manual would particularly deal
with:
(i) project preparation: although not directly the responsibility of
FEC, but rather of the LCs soliciting a loan, FEC would increase its
assistance to the LCs in this regard. In selecting projects for
furtber consideration, FEC would ascertain whether they are indeed in
line with prevailing development priorities and sectoral master plans.
(ii)  project appraisal:  FEC's projects would be approved in accordance
with criteria applicable to water supply, sewerage, electricity,
road, urban transportation and development projects.
(iii)  project supervision:  FEC would be required to monitor technical and
financial progress of its assisted projects.
62.      Finances.  As the medium-term objective of FEC would be to become a
financially viable organization, steps would be taken to gradually strengthen
its financial structure. The Government and FEC would review with the Bank
annually FEC's capital requirements and interest rates starting in 1983 (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.02, Project Agreement, Section 2.08)). An understanding
has been reached that the Government intends to: (i) contribute additional
capital, or to cause CDG to provide FEC with long-term subordinated loans at a
moderate cost, to FEC's equity in equal annual installments of DH 20 million
starting December 31, 1983; (ii) raise FEC's lending rate from 8.5% to 10% by
December 31, 1983 (para. 55); and (iii) cause FEC to set up provisions for
risk for debts not guaranteed by the Government starting from 0.25% of
unsecured loan portfolio in 1984 and increasing to 1% by 1986 and 3%
thereafter.



- 18 -
Benefits and Risks
63.      The project would increase the availability of funds to meet the LCs'
requirements in water supply and sewerage, electricity, and urban development
and transportation, as well as warehouses, markets and slaughterhouses. The
direct benefits and the overall rate of return are difficult to quantify at
this stage as the relevant data of the sub-projects to be financed are not
available. However, FEC's use of appraisal criteria agreed with the Bank
should ensure the economic viability of the sub-projects. Although the
project impact on the LCs' investment requirements is limited due to its pilot
nature, the most important and permanent benefit of this project would be the
development of FEC's capacity to operate as an effective development finance
institution. This would gradually put FEC in a position to play a more
determinant role in the development process at the local level and to have a
greater influence on the LCs' investment policies and capacities, particularly
in the less developed regions.
64.      The main risk involved in the project is the adequate implementation
of sub-projects by the sub-borrowers. However, the appraisal criteria,
technical assistance and the requirement of FEC's supervision on its assisted
projects would help reduce this risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Kingdom of Morocco, the
draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Fonds d'Equipement Communal et
Caisse de Depot et de Gestion, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. The draft agreements conform to the normal pattern for
loans for development finance companies.
66.      Special conditions of the Loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness include: (i) execution of the
Financing Agreement between the Government and FEC (Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01 (a); and (ii) employment of the advisor responsible for assisting
FEC in appraising and supervising sub-projects (Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01 (b)).
67.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION       -
68.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 4, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 19 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERGES
AREA (THOL'SAND SQ. EHM.)                                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             446.6/c                                                        MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      202.2 Ic                                MOST RECENT            NORTH AFRICA &            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
CNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    220.0        340.0      900.0                 1253.6                    1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        163.2        214.0      302.3                  713.5                    1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 11626.0         14993.0   20182.0
URBAN POPIULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.3           34.6       40.6                   47.3                      65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           35.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                             81.2
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                      2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          26.0         33.6       43.8                   35.8                      35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        61.1         75.0       96.6                  420.9                      92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            44.8         47.6       46.1                   44.3                      39.7
15-64 YRS.                            52.6         48.3       50.7                   52.4                      56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      2.6          4.2        3.2                    3.3                       4.2
POPULATION CROWTH RATE (PERCEET)
TOTAL                                 2.6          2.5        3.0                    2.8                       2.4
URBAN                                 3.7          4.2        4.6                    4.6                       3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        51.8         47.3       44.9                   41.2                      31.4
CRUDE DOATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        23.4         17.2       12.7                   12.2                       8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.5          3.5        3.2                    2.9                       2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..         25.1       78.0/d
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             1.0        5.4/d
POOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             99.0         98.0       88.0                  100.4                     110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     100.8        103.0      106.5/e                108.5                     108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             64.6         66.5       68.3/e                 71.9                      66.0
OF WHICH ANLIMAL AND PULSE         13.8         12.6       13.5/e                 18.0                      34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        36.8         26.6       15.5                   15.1                       5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    46.7            51.7       56.5                   56.9                      64.2
INFANT MORTALITY
RATE (PER THOUSAND)                 160.5        136.3      107.2                  104.3                      64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                30.6         51.0       55.0/d                 59.1                      65.6
UERBAN                               58.7         92.0      100.0/d                 83.1                      78.9
RURAL                                19.0         28.0       25.0/d                 39.8                      43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         29.0         ..                     .,                      59.3
URBAN                                  ..         75.0         ..                     ..                      75.3
RURAL                                              4.0         .                      ..                      30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             9406.1      12814.5   11037.4/d                4015.5                    1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..       2742.2    1826.3/e                1802.2                    1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               625.6        664.3      773.6/e                641.7                     477.4
URBAN                                  ..        454.7      623.4/e                538.3                     679.8
RURAL                                  ..       5821.4    3089.6/e                2403.3                    1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..         15.5       17.9/e                 25.5                      27.3
HOUSING
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 4.8          5.5         ..                     .                         .
URBAN                                 4.3          4.9
RURAL                                 5.1          5.8
AVERAC.E NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 2.2          2.4
URBAN                                 2.1          2.1
RURAL                                 2.3          2.6 .6       .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
U RBAN                                 ..         68.4       65.0/e
R-RAL                                  ..           ..



- 20 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE0GES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb           MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 47.0         52.0       75.0                   88.7                     104.3
MALE                  67.0          67.0      93.0                  104.5                     106.4
FEMALE                27.0         36.0       56.0                   72.0                     103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   5.0         13.0       22.0                   39.7                      41.3
MALE                    7.0         18.0      27.0                   49.3                      40.4
FEItALE                2.0           7.0      17.0                   29.0                      41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  30.2             2.3        2.8                  10.1                      33.7                                )
PUPIL-TEACHFR RATIO
PRIMARY                             42.4         34.3       40.3                   34.1                      29.9
SECONDARY                             6.3        20.4       21.0/f                 23.7                      16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          13.8         21.4      28.0                   43.3                      79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          10.7         14.8       19.6/d                 17.8                      42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          45.8         62.4      107.5                  131.3                     270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.4          11.6      38.4                   44.1                     107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    22.1         16.2       11.8                  31.5                      63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0              ..        2.0/e                 1.7                       2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3388.7        3945.2    5294.8
FEFALE (PERCENT)                     10.0         14.2      15.8                   10.6                      24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                62.0         57.0      52.0                   42.4                      31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  14.0          17.0      21.0                   27.8                      23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  29.1         26.3       26.2                  26.0                       33.6
MALE                                   52.1         45.2       44.2                  46.2                      50.4
FEMALE                                  5.9          7.5        8.3                   5.6                      16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.6          2.0        1.9                    1.9                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
RURAL                                  ..           ..     219.0/i
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0/g          20.0_/g
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDs  43.3/g          49.0/g
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    7.0/g           4.0./
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0_/g         12.0         ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               107.0        157.0     389.0                  279,2
RURAL                                66.0        101.0     238.0                  178.6                     184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
LRBAN                                  ..           ..     242.0                  403.6                     518.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..     257.0                  285.6                     371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN    -                           51.0         38.0      28.0                    22.1
RURAL                                49.0         45.0      45.0                    30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Excludes the es-Spanish Sahara; /d 1976; /e 1977; /f 1975; /g Consumption expenditures of households.
May, 1982



- 21 -                                                            AnNEX I
DEyiNfTlyrlS OF SOCIAL IrtDtTATOa.                                                              F
Notes   nk ..lty  rh. date are denti  frel   arra  generally jdgad it. ous   ehort-tt- and ro..lle.. it ahold alno ho tu-d thor rhay on  rot hanotor-
ntoaly  ooyt Nletcoen. of tire lah of  e                   "drdrnofieirtt I od conet  te-d by dffl.lro  cotn c  l,llninrh  dtt.  Tirhoi  am.aota
thla. af.l to d-ne0oorai   of  geie-da. indicete treds, edo,i              rs    o -tla eti. eslor ditfar...eLoec. -anuoctit..
T'he  eo,  n   eer   r   11 teee  cotyrnp of rihs eobjat ountry and (21    onr  group nirh  o-ochat hiahe  onoroha iLco    thou ciro toeehy groOp
of the u              IFncunr  IsI. t  o  Hg  loon Olinotr"fo-aytar  "HitdaIne  North Atrlc- da  diddle hoot" La cc...c hncao   of  -n-oe1a
eeoio-cnitoraIoftinirteti.   I  the nefaraeoaoruap data th  avr-_   neppeatnoo -gte -eithantico -n   for nec hld..a.o  andran ony  hr
majoityof oa ccatiss  o agono  'to dta fe tan ndlntur   doz  th  cooneg  ofc...rt..amae te idl.              o      drada-ndr  o tn aotlei-it  ofunt
and is or  titor. tantie ucet h  eorvciad in rlaefag   neteger  f nan idlcateroannthar   Thone  ntnnteaato  onld erulol n- cnnpL. tghrhooolaeoo
on   ndc to at a ties    ot rol  coutry sad rafse-o....    0a
AORA Iohona..o.     s....Iltfn  d  ho-oteal io  - tota, orton.,admyl-hplto                                                                                                    tl
Coal-Totla taf- arnatpten lad -rb and LIniadoaee  1919 data.                                 urian  aide..rall di,ia  hy thei  -oponl- cnooof honpetal. node
oogtcltoosi -tic          of otetnaltoro  ores asd tuepo-rrly orPnrn..sly                        -nilorle Id palte and prioo  oteio-   yuille   hospitl  onna
for cops,yaennre .nahht and liensetare-    ornolt  t_IIo  1919 dat.                      'a Ibllntaci..on  arr.' Hupirl  ann ou nlnhrco.n   vnaxnyo   a
IN? Pi CAP_ITA IlS)j   GNlP ye- aioarstea   orn -atht picts  ca-                                   hlar  are cot inclddn.Slne  hotyifas  fih no._                   lo  heoIlci
cnlarad he eans connr hoe. enthod ne WolId tak Otlar 1197640 httti  .96d.                        au  ediol00  e   o                               Inannl  fa  hY a .nhal ba  that hya
170  an   580 fat.                                                                              eaiol  elona.trt,ndtf    et.   hc  ufrl-ncnrooa
EfLtRiY COcNCf@TIOt PrO CAPITA -  .noou  onneupsyrton of oocaPoun   caltcl pneea .                                   r..h. pla   on:  -l4d  Info yelnlonpalinelhoio
IrbttL  teolore  ofca  n e lnt ee  capta  li960, 1i70, nod 1919                                  onet    potlndhnprl   r  i_duce   colt  _no  tota.
data.                                                                                          dI.lrioeoo  eec do101nyia  tao - hel.  _oot_ of  dneeni..t to -e dtoha-aue
iron hoo.pltolt dlnidnd hy cnn -uhc of hade.
yll.o Te 1h  1h  SATISTICSOOSN
Moa(oelfa.Hi-otIhoosandn) -nof inly 1; ff60. 1970. oaf li9                                    dl0N
dat.                                                                                         hoard-  Sito of Ifl-uhold(crnoe  joouadf-ot.ucb,adoal
frbn  nulta  (prRo fcool -ftn  of -rhat no nnI.p.                      na. on                     h-othold  -oniota of a trop o2finevcdl    1Onadrn ioit  qoarttro
ditierent defnt.ii... ofaen araray affen..,              ately of-t                             e   hlrmtsl.               badeo  lodlto-ay o               a   eioao   r
f                           neont ocuntrias; hobO,~~~~~1111  1900. end l9l0 dan.rha hnoecod fruoitnlporyna..
1Por-ola,iLn Pnftt.oeA dtern  ntar of                                                                              cretnrtoettl   ron   o   ocI-  ut                         oo
P"oatn  prebr  for aersl ty rotse tont f thren                      -I  ..laes-               otpid acs
ing lif. sPopate..cy an birth itroaognth  cetePar capita taos                             deas o...      tict l    eern-ectY 1  oLf  -nnlit.a  -      -oa.an. nb    on 
len,   en d female lifa enoonY  -bhriitg, an 77.5 yar    h   na                             Cooottoel dullg   niniR  dlnotinity itlilu Ma            ern_nrn an pert -a-~
a  Iee  o  harell iy m     ale  dretre      Hn ase           declie i                   of totti, nebor. nod r-en  d-allinga.. rett-lnnl.
inhconr  is the   ..lgs  onu of Ih,,, oeoniaiaaof ae-1liy                              EDCATICCON
and frrtiliny Irenf  far prlanr_ine puposs                                                  -tund  te ... II-  notio
thebirh trn  e  Ioa  no the ne- n  eas  edonoregsbccyr ft-nllfxoIo  allY  roe o'.doIrlo-r    Inn   n  acntgeo
c os rylnars. ilce... exactly.The o.lat.o.ary popalatlotsle  o                            ooutrIaeIthucioLel enoalnt rotti .la   nay ren-d 110 esrctot
reisr Ixtoheeso.      c   rjci   hrttica   fteyylcc                                      nc   ooppi   r bhaley on oh1 nor th.  ificial  -ctoL   r
ho the Y-er 2000, ned therat  of. ea lie  at fri'lty rate1 to stloce                         coodo-yecao1.       ttl,voeat   eol  -d              teataureConday
Vsten.1                                                                                    td-cai-orqireo                 I...foe  Yrra ofactooy-      ay   orccto
Pete     ..foa . onnoatn  Ia r-scid - Th. Yeo  oh.. f-tlic-y                                       S     Inabxproer   aoel   oa be,  rtethertenn   lnrc   o   fat 9aplb
-nonl  o   rahd.                                                                       a...l  of, . l to 17 yetn n  ag;ceepuuoeoocnra. urn grnre-ly
Per oo. as- ttdyo  pplnanppuorn hila-ta    Il   acaae   t                                     aocna ne-oln...roroot-oftoouP I           nvv    V- tot   ..nuo  lo-it-t
cot l acn; 19hf  1~.71971nd17  oara.-cldnte-hxncn1~i. ndorIn,  OP onnt-rab-n   -tchooac  iednped-
Per en. ha.. etricoltoral iaed - Toepotad us ab.x. for upiolnrl  od                   -tnip  -e stfpenee  ttnnay  oatea
only: 1960, 197t ted 1979 date.                                                           yoi-rcherrto-piay-n   endrn-Itlsono noldI
PaainAn. Inroucor  Ipnet-ihid-e  10-14 y-an.  nocio-er1-                                   prmay and a_onory  enIt..1  diVidad hr xeo-rt nf teteIo the
hA y-arr I,ed -stico   15 Peers and ovr) o   acens   fnfpa   ou                                 ornodc   eea
lathan; 1960, 1970. oud 1980 data.                                                           .oalt on-r-c  rate Ip-t..nt  - Linoronna~dultn  (obls to crd aooo-inn)
PopuIlaion cr-th net  (nercern) -oct01 -  e-en  groethcra  of' tots  ed-                         ueoy ..cnetngeof rural wdelr  onnto   gad 11 d-r  end over.
ma  pylaln  a  195-At9Wh-73I..od 1970-ti.
le-iax   far 1950-60. 19h0-l0. and 1970-dO0.                                                 faeosvCr    arconndyvloln                         Ot ttetco  atrot roto
Crude Oierh nate  tearoh-neol,   -   ..o.a  Ine hirthe per thon...da of ord-yoar                 coeostx   boa ih-n e1igc  pot...ncaatahnc    hoorro  -an
yneoeo;    O.  19 70   n  190 dor.                                                      siitcaeyohiclna.
popolati_x; 1990. 1970, no   90dt.honcest   arn  polio  par croun.ed of P.pltc;ea oe   0
oe-anlrpuat-v  plrio  if oh. euerer  presen  aa-epeifi bctn-                         onteun   in  fteac; data for rcr  yearn map net brono  It ni...
....t rte;  aolly f ior-yo   --bras  neding ia 1960. 190.ad 1980.                      -ne  -oooiee  to.lilhdlcneg
menyPladoong   A-orrenro  dot-a  (olho.a-del    onnlcno   f aornr                           VOooea(e  faadyylno)- CO cr-ine  for. hI tceac
ohIrt-or             ietoer nod-r -opines of n-niona  famiy lanno  yogen                      nne_       poilipr  hno.a.d-penoca molden c1ieedTIorano-                     r
fascin Panning    arste  rercantof earr-d snar  - Parce..inge of esvrnn  o-ntrias and in year   h..  rney   o  of 15cr   r
ann ofhild-b-ati  ape z  O-AA  y        ,se)ah  onebeth-conro   d-xic.n.                heear Ira.          o   ettasr.  oenln                  ho  h   vre  oie-
all maried aa   no  ar   agagtp.                                                               oiioofdoily             -. enrlI-rer-nn-papnr   def aidnIayniodicnl
polccunfotd premarly ont     crt. ~     nee   re    ri   ncideer
feWD OtO MoRLyTtlIn                                                                                tn h   demo  I  if  ,Ppe.r. or Ioa.t Ione~i -nner.
Inden o  food  ranuetir err  aoirn  1969-yI'll0   - lodno of Par captaanca          Cinn_  Anun   "Iodo p-er- Cap it. per crar - toned on the    dr   f
yrodetin ofallfun  cnsndilra                   -1neoin    ldes seed aa eoadfokn   odntn  tire y-e, itoinding anel-a... to drierItcoe
te on nairedar yesr one Ia.  Co-dicieetnvar plisary gne  eg  euacsad enbila  ni
inatnad of   trfoc  are  dibla- en  t               utlentierta  (eg.aofeen
baaar  acld.d).  Aggreg.tt evdu Inof  .ach eneetry is cae  or. Ic                            iFORC
otnlaregs p-ad.c-po  siht;  91-65 . 1970. aed 1980 deta,                             Total Labor torte   :theosadsj-foanal  aaisytao,teatq
Poe aapica noPPir  fclrs          eo of  ofruerat)- Coapntnd trs                                  me It  rce  -d cnpor   o   ald    h.nnam ... udotne. amadt
energ  eqotn-l-  of err food euppliee availble Idce-oey per cepirn                             covora  poynlact.of a  all ogs.  lufinici-u  ho o-ria..eo-orieiet
Per da.   rA-ilalbl  cepla  aoo      na   oai  y-odaetlo, lepoe  laa-aro                                 -baala; 1960, 10)70 an  196  dor.
anere,ad oh.ngee In stn.-t soplassnlde -xima  faad, eneds,                                Feae(orai - Pti   ao   u                  oPereoneagef tota  labto  icoco,
_eentxeasdL.fndpanei_dan  leash  dnrielo.   anio                                        hrconarl-rYe)- aorfot  i   or-g,-oory    anie  n
attn ar  aeletd by PA0 baIad a  ptyhloiaI               oes  o  oralal-                          fi.ichm     no pere...ntge of tonal labor force; 1960. 1970 an,d 1960 fota.
very end haalhbaeidre   nnnrnse-l nsneeanL.   hod..y airbs,as n_er  (eoe    - Lber foros itcie.  cosenoitLtngonto
and  an  tatihetonof P7ylta,I   old siloin  10pren            lo nas    an                 on   lcrctySer   e   esnpr eg   of ittel c-n  fare
C                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~h..o.-Id Iloo; 1961465.  9190 ed 197) daa,1                                                   IO17  oef lIrd eo
ne   neYof ro   erdy    etdpl  og toad  ..                 I rfodebn ,  in-              co .oty .tns  eta co-p-ra  a               -Ie . a . and fm Le eor force 
qatreanr  foral  -onnir  oerod iebrd by USDA pranife for ennma                                 pecocns of ard    eoedfac   oaabo   foloerectr
loeceof '60  irn   f  on  puro  e n  and 10 gtss of aumladbr,17.ndhgdt,Coonah eadon                                                          tloyriciatnrev
pules yrti.of eth 10 gree  lthad   h   nmlpeen _Tedse inane                                   Iontnu   g-r   conr   fteoplto.adlo   cunrf
-rde ore los   throh t- of 75S goe  of ltona  protein ond 23 genes at                          fee.. na -rtn   ore Iran n-i-nun..o.
*                                  anamal~~~~~~.._  pertai  ae at o_-rg  Ion thd enrld, prope-d hy fd  no t1he Thind                        ""on I aotvu  fato - tame of "pop-inco  unfo  15 and h5 nod o
Wn-1d Fond Serve; 1961-65,I90ed17   aa                                                         to rho Iocl bierfoce
FIr  -Iln. rey  ro-anealan  ynlooPrnreh   nRpplr of food d-
res   een-d      eadpissh   oe  per- dey;  196-5. 1970 atd1977 dent..                     ixCaro DISTRIBUTION
iChtlf (ono - ) DI-Ih tote Inst thaordl  -oenL  deaths. per thooe..d.                         letIorts  f pI'nonnn  Iccoe  (7.ho     LEphlone -rcoa        a ..cec-ecbt  r-cla
egeirnnpl-Amnar,oaheldr-s i lhoisatSo  goooerure"I          xlpil,t.o....                I prcor, rc-alotfat enr . - otoo  11  rooo-adyout--loanr
nrire data deri-e fIn  life  alo  1960. 1970 end  96  deO        o                            olh-hO thtlOO.
unon                                                                   ya~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~?VrTy-i TOARCT 1601P0
loft ftectnnooat Oirn   years) -l.xrge  e-b-ar o  yea-tIf Lifeym   unn -Ito  hollon  va  earnat                        y opproobanr  onoo of Po.rt. Y -loot
00  hie; IOnO, la     .od 1961 Osta.ndoolctcrvrad ih ooed-ocen_n
Inflot Oaoltlco  ac  Ip oar    ..anr    -,oooo  deaths  ftloaaor onecat                        fr oatf .tAl-noe yo--n   cet -Ioal coo~               -- -v en o-nIocdtal-
tsr of people (total. arhLoan.  andorotallieirbrnaqn-ablaapore...o.na                    n1fomoahl
ooreiareu-   tan   aint .Plo  rsonl e ocee  o  iTna   ous.  l; Icn  nmnano                  lelua   ootoc  Oeoe -cor-oe  toosr- 'Iro hol(rnt
rescbl   nea   al  lappl l y  htth   otatao   neaeo  the,, hoe l                          or-ora  -b Perocr  forcahacu-   --oa fo  rrl) hbmeaulc
_ootnoo_ oyeneIerepom--arel                 n  of the da ...   tancanog-B.
ircearob t   ietnoa_    oercoo -o ooult  tn     coccI        IIor  I, and
oAc  er  Eofreol  (totl, oIrat  eo   ote)  ertd  9  eta elopoal
pecette   f  hbrener v  yeIotIore,   acta  jpoo6            myhocd
hooainper- ycac-Popnlnrine diondr  ocy ...hot of praccielug phyei-                                    ~coeccoSocIa  Ont  D-otaco
aeon   enliied  rom aendial ehanl er oi          ...le   lae.                                                        iooaoo.nIS 00  ytc7nt-on ...r.             t
Popnlnior em Ooshon  rmnne- Popinrio  Onoided by ocer of ynacta he                                                                     na  1001



- 22-
Population     :  20.8 million (mid-1981)                                                                                             ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 870 (1981)                                                                                                       Page 4 of 6
MOROCCO - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                                        Annual Growth Rates (%Y
current prices)                           Actual                                         Projected
Indicator                        1980                   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981e/                 1982    1983    1984    1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product a/   17820                      6.0    2.2    4.8    3.6   -1.3                    4.0      5.1      4.5      4.3
Agriculture                  3229                -12.3   18.0   -1.7    6.2  -23.0                     7.0      9.6      3.1      2.5
Industry                     5752                  8.0   -0.9    7.7   -2.5   -0.5                     3.7     4.6       5.4     5.1
Services                     7762                  8.5    4.0    5.1    6.4    3.4                     3.7     4.3      4.3      4.3
Consumption                    15770                  5.3    4.2    5.8    2.5    2.2                     1.3      4.2      3.5      3.6
Gross investment                4025                 15.6  -25.9    1.3   -7.3   -3.6                     6.5    -1.1       3.7      3.2
Exports of GNFS                 3273                 10.3    3.3    0.9    3.7    3.5                     4.5      7.0      6.3      5.3
Imports of GNFS                 5247                 14.5  -17.4    3.3   -9.8   10.7                    -1.9    -0.6       2.2      2.3
Gross national savings          2606                   1.5  -15.4    3.2    6.0  -20.6                    9.5    15.6    13.2        1.7
PRICES
GDP deflator (1969 = 100)           .               172.0  186.5  200.2  218.4  241.2
Exchange rate (US$ per DH)          .                 .222   .240   .256   .254   .193
Share of GOP at Market Prices CE)                              Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)d/                        (at constant 1969 prices)    (at constant 1980 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985  1990                  1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product                                                                4.0        4.6        5.1        3.7         5.1
Agriculture b           29.1   19.2   17.9   18.1   17.1  15.1                     3.5       -2.1        3.8        2.5        2.5
Industry b/             23.5   27.2   35.2   32.3   34.9  35.8                    4.7         7.1        4.2        3.9        5.5
Services b/             47.4   53.6   46.9   49.6   47.9  49.1                    4.1         5.5        5.9        4.0        5.5
Consumption                89.2   85.5   85.5   88.5   87.7  84.0                     4.1        4.8        5.8        3.0        4.2
Gross investment            10.3   18.5   25.4   22.6   20.0  20.0                    6.0        9.3       -2.8        2.0         5.1
Exports GNFS                27.4   17.6   22.5   18.4   20.5  22.7                    1.3        2.1        4.9        5.5         7.1
Imports GNFS               26.9   21.6   33.4   29.4   28.7  26.7                     3.5        8.1        0.5        1.7        4.0
Gross national savings   11.0   14.8   19.3   14.6   14.5  17.9                       3.5       15.3       -4.4        3.0        10.0
As X of GDP
1960       1970       1975       1980       1981
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenues                                   16.5       16.1        23.3       21.6       23.3
Current expenditures                               15.6       14.5       20.2        21.8       24.7
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                          0.9         1.6        3.1       -0.2       -1.4
Capital expenditure                                 3.8         5.7       12.2       12.4       12.6
Foreign financing                                     ..        1.3        3.7        5.6        9.3
1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (X)                       4.0        6.0         5.2        3.4        5.1
GNP per capita growth rate (%)            1.6        3.1         1.8       -0.1        2.0
Energy consumption growth rate (M)    3.8            6.7         5.6        4.3        5.0
ICOR                                      3.09       3.0        4.1         6.2        3.9
Marginal savings rate                     0.10       0.38       -0.15       0.27       0.28
Import elasticityE/                       0.95       1.84        0.13       0.95       0.78
a! At market prices.
b/  Share of GDP at factor cost beginning in 1985 and sectoral growth rates at factor cosc beginning in 1980-85.
c/  Goods only.
d/  Projected years at constant 1980 prices.
e/  Estimates.
fI  1977-1980 at 1969 prices, 1981-85 at 1980 prices.
January 27, 1983
EMENA CP II-B
ID 0180B P.1



Population     s  20.8 million (mid-1981)                         - 23                                    ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 870 (1981)                                                                           Page 5 of 6
MOROCCO - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount
Indicator            (million US$ at                             Annual Growth Rates (%)l/
current prices)                  Actual                                   Projected
1980         1975   1977   1978   1979   1980        1981      1982   1983   1984   1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports (FOB)        2414       -21.9   10.7    5.3    1.8    5.1          1.0      4.0    7.8    6.7    5.1
Primary products             1823       -25.2    7.7    5.4    0.0    5.8         -8.1       1.2    3.4    3.8    3.5
Phosphate rock             765       -29.9    9.6    9.6    3.2    7.4         -5.4       0.0    3.0    5.0    4.0
Others                     939       -22.3    6.5    2.8   -1.7   14.7    -10.0           2.1    3.7    2.9    3.1
Intermediate & manufactures 591          -1.4   23.8    5.0    7.1    2.8         27.4       9.8   16.3   11.8    7.6
Merchandise imports (CIF)        4283        21.2   14.4  -19.9    6.6   -7.1          9.3     -1.9    0.5    3.9    4.0
Food                          720        37.8    0.4    8.6    2.2    3.4         32.5    -16.8   -0,9    2.1    4.5
Petroleum                    1006        12.8    8.7   11.0   12.1  -11.9         10.8       0.0   -1.1    3.3    3.2
Machinery and equipment       805        51.7   26.7  -44.3   -3.2  -19.8          7.5       3.0   -2.5    4.0    2.9
Others                       1752         4.0   13.0  -15.1   12.5   -5.2         -0.3       2.6    3.7    5.0    4.8
PRICES (1980 = 100)
Export price index                 .         89.9   68.4   69.7   83.5  100.0    123.3    125.1  137.1  153.5  171.8
Import price index                 .        64.1   67.9   73.0   79.2  100.0    122.3    130.9  140.2  154.3  169.8
Terms of trade index               .        140.3  100.7   95.5  105.4  100.0    100.8         95.6   97.8   99.5  101.2
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)                        Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                      (Constant 1969 prices)   (Constant 1980 prices)
1960    1970_  1975   1980   1985   1990         1960-70  1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Exports                                                                           2.0      -1.2        6.6        5.2        7.6
Primary products          89.5    89.4   86.9   74.4   60.5   49.1             ..     -2.7         5.3        1.3        3.3
Intermediates & manu-   10.5    10.6   12.9   25.6   39.5   50.9               ..       8.1       12.1      14.0        13.0
factures
Imports                                                                           4.0       9.1        0.7        2.4        4.0
Food                      27.3    16.9   25.0   16.9   16.9   15.5             ..      14.0        3.0        0.7        2.4
Petroleum                  7.4      5.5   10.8   23.6   23.6   22.4            ..       9.6        5.3        2.4        2.8
Machinery and equipment  6.7    24.1   24.0   18.9   18.7   19.2               ..      12.8       -7.0        2.4        4.5
Others                    58.6    53.5   40.2   40.6   40.7   42.9             ..       5.5        2.9        3.3        5.1
Share of Trade with               Share of Trade with              Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (%)          Developing Countries (%)        Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (M)
1960       1970       1980        1960       1970       1980      1960           1970             1980
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                         72.3       73.7       76.5        27.7       25.4       21.6        ..            0.9              1.9
Imports                        76.7       74.9        72.9        23.3       25.1        8.3        ..             ..             18.8
1/ 1975-1980 at 1969 prices, 1981-1985 at 1980 prices                                                  September 22, 1982
EMENA CP I0 -B
ID 01808 p.2



Population      :  20.8 million (mid-1981)                            - 24 _                                                           ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 870 (1981)                                                                                                        Page 6 of 6
MOROCCO - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
Indicator                                                      Actual                                                 Projected
1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981          1982    1983    1984    1985    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services                2288      2486      2955      3694      4364      4132          4087    4669    5401    6193   11297
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.            1245       1283      1488      1938      2414      2283          2180    2575      3077    3618    7163
Imports of goods and services                3691      4364      4353      5268      5912       6095         5780    6276    6930    7734   12812
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.a/           2305      2820      2628      3245      3770      3840          4054    4365    4994    5714    9856
Net current tranfers                           47        52        50        44        128       102             -        -        -        -        -
Current account balance                     -1355    -1826    -1348    -1530    -1420    -1861              -1692   -1607   -1529   -1541   -1515
Special grants                                435       360       260       420       314        313           84      197      320       150     232
Current account balance after grants    -920    -1466    -1088    -1110    -1106    -1548                   -1609   -1410   -1209   -1391   -1283
Private capital                                38        53        45        37         88        68            76      85        96      106      171
MLT loans (net)                               838      1338      1109       946        971      1205         1071    1425       1371     1666    1359
Official                                    ..        ..        ..        ..        ..      1315           994      736      878      982    1092
Private                                     ..        ..        ..        ..        ..      -110            77      689      493      684      267
Other capital                                  28        68       -73         73     -200         17            ..       ..
Monetary movementsI/                           16         6          8        53       247       258          462    -100    -258    -381    -263
International reserves                        548       609       772       917       814        508          470      543      653       787    1635
Of which:  Gold                             82       104       154       360       415       278           278      278      278      278      278
Reserves as months imports                    1.8       1.7       2.1       2.1        1.7       1.0          1.0       1.0      1.1      1.2      1.5
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT c/
Gross disbursements                           725      1787      1182      1405       1567      1807
Concessional loans                         111       636       325       293       750      1089
DAC                                     63       109         91        76        96       138
OPEC                                    41       507        189       168       584       837
IDA                                      4         3          -         -         1         2
Other                                    3         16        45        49        69       112
Non-concessional loans                     614      1151       859      1113       818       718
Official export credits                 22        27          2         2        12       128
IBRD                                    59        68         72       137        64       129
Other multilateral                        2         6        53         7        13        86
Private                                531      1050        732       967       729       375
Suppliers credits                    10       171        10          8        16         6
Financial credits and bonds         521       879       722       957        713       368
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed           2330      4069       5123      6182      7097      8381
Official                              1250      1975      2456       2833      3482      4865
Private                               1080      2094      2667       3349      3615      3515
Undisbursed debt                           801      1024      2280      2337      2058      2901
Debt service
Total service payments                     162       264       547       798      1191       1340
Interest                                66       148        252       410       618       738
Payments as 1 exports of G+S d/            7.2      10.7      18.7      21.8       27.0      31.3
Average interest rate on new loans (%)           7.7        6.8       7.0       8.2       8.1       8.5
Average maturity of new loans (years)           11.7       13.1      13.2      15.9      13.7       8.0
As X of Debt Outstanding at End of Most Recent Year (1980)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                              47.9
Maturities due within 10 years                                             88.0
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                              7.3
a/ c.i.f. for projected years.
b/ Projected values include IMF credits.
c/ Years 1976-80 from IBRD External Debt Reporting System, 1981 from the BOP statistics.  There are sizeable discrepancies in some years
between the external capital and debt service flows reported under the IBRD Debt System and those recorded in the official balance of
payments statistics  shown in the upper part of this table.
d/ Excluding debt service on IMF loans.
January 27, 1983
EMENA CP I1-B
ID 0180B p.3



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of February 28, 1983) a/
Loan or                                                                          US$ Million
Credit                                                                Amount   (less cancellations)
Number         Year       Borrower               Purpose              Sank       IDA     Undisbursed
Twenty-six Loans Fully disbursed                                      672.6
Four Credits Fully disbursed                                                      36.0
1018           1974      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             32.0                    7.8
555            1975      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture                        14.0        10.2
1220-T         1976      Kingdom of Morocco    Education               25.0                   12.3
1416           1977      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             41.0                   27.6
1428           1977      BNDE                    DFC                   35.6                    1.8
S-7           1977      Kingdom of Morocco    Engineering              1.5                    0.4
1528           1978      Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development   18.0                       13.4
1602           1978      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             65.0                   57.7
1681           1979      Kingdom of Morocco    Education              113.0                  103.1
1687           1979      Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)               25.0                   11.9
1695           1979      Kingdom of Morocco    Power                   42.0                   41.0
1704           1979      CNCA                    Agriculture           70.0                   21.7
1724           1979      Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply            49.0                   22.8
1757           1980      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             58.0                   47.3
S-18           1980      BRPM                    Oil Exploration       50.0                   16.9
1830           1980      Kingdom of Morocco    Highway                 62.0                   40.6
1848           1980      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             34.0                   31.7
1943           1981      CIN                     Tourism              100.0                   61.4
1944           1981      Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development   36.0                       34.2
2006           1982      Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply            87.0                   85.3
2037           1982      BNDE                    DFC                   70.0                   67.8
2038           1982      Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)               70.0                   70.0
2082           1982      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             29.0                   29.0
2109           1982      Kingdom of Morocco    Mining                   9.5                    9.5
2110           1982      Kingdom of Morcco       Forestry              27.5                   27.1
2114           1982      ONAREP                  Oil Shale             20.0                   20.0
214911         1982       Kingdom of Morocco    Education V            50.0                   50.0
22171/         1982      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             30.0                   30.0
Total                                                           1922.7       50.0      952.5
of which has been repaid                                      256.0        1.3
Total now outstanding                                           1666.7      48.7
Amount Sold                                 20.1
of which has been repaid                  17.7                   2.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                  1664.3      48.7
Total undisbursed                                                942.3       10.2      952.5
NOTE
a/ Does not include the Housing Development Project, loan of W60 million, approved
March 15, 1983; the Fourth Highway Project, Loan of $85 million approved March 29, 1983;
and the Small-and-Medium Irrigation Project, Loan of $42 million, approved March 29, 1983.
1/ Not effective as of March 31, 1982.
4                                                            B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of February 28, 1983)
US0  Million
Loan     Equity   Total
1962/1978           BNDE                         Development Bank           -        2.7       2.7
1966                CIL                          Canning Factory           0.9       0.5       1.4
1976                Marrakech Cement             Cement Factory             -        1.3       1.3
1977/i980           Temara Cement                Cement Factory            4.7       3.6       8.3
1979                Agadir Cement *              Cement Factory           12.5       2.2      14.7
1980                SOMIFER                      Copper Mining            13.0       2.3      15.3
1981/1983           Casablanca Cement            Cement Factory           15.8      -2.1      17.9
Total Gross Commitments                                               46.9      14.7      61.6
Less cancellation, terminations, repayments and sales           16.5      3.5      20.0
Total commitments now held by IFC                                     30.4      11.2     41.6
Total Undisbursed                                                     11.6       0.3      11.9
* Agadir Cement has been cancelled.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF FEBRUARY 28, 19831/
Cr. No. 555         Meknes Agricultural Development Project; US$14.0 million of
June 11, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 14, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
After a 2-year initial delay, project implementation has picked up
momentum.  Major activities concerned with the land consolidation and
redistribution program have been completed in one district and civil works
(roads, destoning and irrigation rehabilitation) have been started in the
remaining three districts. Progress is slower than expected, mainly because
project implementation has proven more complex than anticipated, wbich has
been aggravated by project management problems. However, the first results of
the completed components are promising. Because of the initial delay and the
complexity in implementation, the original closing date was extended by three
years.
Ln. No. 1220-T      Third Education Project; US$25.0 million of March 18,
1976;   Date of Effectiveness:  October 1, 1976; Closing
Date; September 1, 1983.
The project is designed to expand and improve primary and secondary
education in rural areas and specialized training to meet manpower needs in
education, agricultural extension, health and tourism. After an initial
two-year delay, construction under the education and agriculture components is
largely completed and funds are committed for the equipment and technical
assistance components, but lengthy delays have been experienced in the
implementation of the health and tourism components, for which a portion of
the funds have been reallocated to the education components.
Ln. No. 1416        Doukkala II Irrigation Project. US$4l.0 million of June 16,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
The project aims at extending irrigation and related agricultural
development in the Doukkala perimeter by 16,600 hectares; it also calls for
1/       These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
provision of extension and credit services, and village infrastructure. The
land consolidation program and the enlargement of the main canal are
proceeding according to schedule. Implementation was slowed down due to
budgetary constraints facing Morocco in 1980-81 which caused a delay of about
two years. Project implementation has resumed vigorously under excellent
project management.
Ln. No. S-7         Sewerage Engineering Project; UStl,5 million of
August 30, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 18, 1978;
*                                 Closing Date;  October-31, 1983.
The project includes the preparation of a sewerage Master Plan for
the Casablanca-Mohammedia region and of a first phase project. It would
assist Morocco in developing the design and planning criteria for urban sewer
systems and strengthening the institutional and financial bases for the
development of this sector. Project implementation was delayed by about 15
months, due to administrative and budgetary difficulties, but studies were
launched in May 1980, and are now proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1528        Rabat Urban Development Project; US$l8.0 million of
March 31, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project is designed to improve living conditions of the urban
poor in Rabat. It includes upgrading of slum infrastructure and social
services in three squatter areas with a total population of about 60,000; an
experimental sites and services housing scheme; an employment generation
program; and related technical assistance. After initial delays, project
implementation has recently improved significantly. Infrastructure works are
under way and housing improvement loans are being made. Relocation to sites
and services areas is under progress and some enterprises have started
operation in the industrial zone. Disbursements, however, remain low and the
matter is under review with the Government. An extension of the closing date
is under consideration.
Ln. No. 1602        Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project; US$65.0 million of
September 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: February 18,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project aims at (i) improving the standard of living of about
33,900 farm families in the Fes-Karia-Tissa region, and (ii) contributing to
the growth of agricultural production and to a reduction in Moroccan
dependence on imported food commodities. These aims would be achieved through
a reorganization and strengthening of agricultural extension and soil
conservation services, training, the provision of credit and infrastructure.
Although somewhat delayed, implementation is now proceeding satisfactorily,
due to excellent project management.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 1681        Fourth Education Project; US$113.0 million on April 25,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 16, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
The project consists of the construction, furnishing and equipping of
11 technical high schools, a technical teacher training college, two higher
institutes of technology, an institute of applied engineering and an extension
of Mohammedia Engineering College and associated technical assistance.
Implementation was initially delayed; however, most major contracts have now
been signed and disbursements are expected to accelerate.
Ln. No. 1687        Small Scale Industry Integrated Development Project;
US$25.0 million of April 25, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
December 17, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project consists of support for a Government program to assist
small and labor intensive industries through technical, managerial and
financial assistance. The loan is fully committed, and earlier disbursement
delays are being remedied subsequent to the recent introduction of simplified
administrative procedures.
Ln. No. 1695        Village Electrification Project; US$42.0 million of May 22,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
This project, which is the first stage of a 15-year village
electrification program, would provide electricitv to about 60,000 dwellings
in more than 200 villages throughout the country. Problems of
interministerial coordination and budgetary allocations delayed project
start-up for about one year. Orders have now been placed for most of the
equipment but no payments have yet been made. However, implementation is well
under way and the project is expected to be completed with only a slight delay.
Ln. No. 1704        Fourth Agricultural Credit Project; US$70.0 million of
May 23, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date; June 30, 1983.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
thereby improving the standard of living of about 475,000 of Morocco's farm
families. The project covers most of the Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole's (CNCA) medium- and long-term lending program and farm investment
program through mid-1983. Cofinancing of $75 million is provided by IFAD and
the Federal Republic of Germany (through KfW). CNCA's on-lending as well as
repayments were severely affected by the 1980-1981 drought, slowing
disbursement of the Bank loan. Disbursements have, however, accelerated and
are expected to be completed by the closing date (including funds from
cofinancing sources).



- 29 -
ANNEX II
p. 5 of 8
Ln. No. 1724        Second Water Supply Project; US$49.0 million of Julv 2,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: February 4, 1980; Closing
Date:   June 30, 1984.
The project is designed to improve access to safe water supplies for
the population of the Mid-Atlantic Coast and the Greater Agadir area.  It
consists of: (i) the expansion of bulk water production and transmission
facilities along the Mid-Atlantic Coast; (ii) the expansion of bulk water
*             production and transmission facilities in Agadir; (iii) the establishment of a
revolving fund to facilitate house connections for low income families; and
(iv) studies on accounting and management systems. Administrative problems
created some initial delays, but there is strong demand for the credit
facilities for low-income house connections. The project is now proceeding
satisfactorily and disbursements are expected to increase accordingly.
Ln. No. 1757        Vegetable Production and Marketing Project; US$58.0 million
of November 15, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 17,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is the first phase of a long-term program for development
of off-season vegetables for export. W5O0. million of the loan is to be
on-lent for long and medium-term farm investments and incremental short-term
production costs of vegetable quality control centers, for two small producer
packing stations, and for seedling greenhouses benefitting about 8,000 farm
families and creating seasonal employment. The balance of the loan would help
finance infrastructure in the project area, and technical assistance.
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Overall production did not
progress as scheduled due to two cold winters, but greenhouses, which have
resisted frost fairly well, are gaining acceptance with the farmers and the
prospects of rising production are promising.
Ln. No. S-18        Petroleum Exploration Project; US$50 million of May 19,
1980; Date of Effectiveness: October 24, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
The project aims essentially at accelerating the Government's
petroleum exploration and development program. It has recently been
transferred from BRPM, the original Borrower, to the new petroleum development
agency, the Office National de Recherches et d'Exploitations Petrolieres
(ONAREP). The project also provides technical assistance in prospect
evaluation, analysis of results of exploration, and exploration management.
Drilling so far has shown encouraging results, particularly as regards natural
gas prospects and has recently focused on appraising the Meskala gas
discovery. Procurement problems initially hampered project implementation but
the loan is now fully committed. Administrative problems (due to the loan
transfer) have also delayed disbursements.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
p. 6 of 8
Ln. No. 1830        Third Highway Project; US$62.0 million of May 19, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: September 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project comprises (i) a three-and-a-half year time slice of the
Government's pavement strengthening and preservation program; (ii)
strengthening and management of the road maintenance program and (iii)
technical assistance for the Ministry of Transport to improve transport
planning and to study road maintenance.  The pavement strengthening and
maintenance activities are progressing satisfactorily. Disbursements have
lagged due to delays in payment of contractors as well as transmittal of
reimbursement requests to the Ministry of Finance, but have recently
accelerated.
Ln. No. 1848        Loukkos Rural Development Project; US$34.0 million of
December 22, 1980; Date of Effectiveness; September 30,
1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
The project should increase incomes and productivity of very poor
subsistence farmers in the Loukkos Basin by reversing the declining trends
caused by soil erosion and inappropriate farming practices. It consists of:
(i) development and erosion control works on 15,000 steeply sloping hectares
in Upper Loukkos; (ii) development of field crops and small irrigation
improvements in Middle Loukkos; (iii) establishment and maintenance of pine
plantations in the Izarene Forest; (iv) construction of roads and social
service facilities in the Project area; and (v) execution of a cadastral
survey on about 500,000 hectares of land. Once proven, the project
implementation methodology could be widely replicated throughout Morocco's
mountain and steppe land. Project implementation is progressing
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1943        Fourth Hotel Development Project; US$100.0 million of
February 5, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: April 9, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project provides funds over a three year period to the Credit
Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH), a Moroccan development bank specializing in the
tourism and housing sectors, for the development of tourism hotels.  It also
includes studies for developing policies in the tourism sector and training of
CIH staff in appraisal methodologies for tourism projects. Commitments and
disbursements have been extremely rapid.
Ln. No. 1944        Second Urban Development Project; US$36.0 million of
April 16, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: August 4, 1981;
Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
The project consists of the provision of shelter, basic services and
employment to low-income urban families through a program for slum upgrading,



- 31 -
ANNEX II
p. 7 of 8
sites and services and provision of serviced land for small-scale industries,
to be implemented in the cities of Meknes and Kenitra. Assistance is also
provided to strengthen the municipal services of the project cities.
Implementation is on schedule, due to the efficient coordination through the
provincial Governors' offices, but some delays in approval of contracts by the
Ministry of Finance have occurred. Disbursements remain low due to
administrative problems, currently being examined by the Government.
Ln. No. 2006        Third Water Supply Project; US$87.0 million of
September 28, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: March 15, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project includes the construction of two regional water
supply systems and the expansion and upgrading of the water supply facilities
in about 32 small towns scattered throughout Morocco. It would also provide
revolving funds to facilitate house connections for low income households,
equipment, technical assistance, training and studies. Project implementation
is progressing satisfactorily, although disbursements have lagged.
Ln. No. 2037        Ninth BNDE Project; US$70.0 million of November 3, 1981.
Date of effectiveness: November 2, 1982. Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The project includes a pilot component in the line of credit to BNDE,
to finance export-oriented industrial sub-projects. The project also focusses
on strengthening organizational aspects of BNDE in the field of project
appraisal, portfolio monitoring and export promotion. Effectiveness was
delayed due financial and to managerial problems, which have since been
remedied.
Ln. No. 2038        Second Small Scale Industry Project; US$70.0 million of
November 3, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: February 24, 1983.
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project comprises (i) a line of credit to the Government to be
relent to BNDE and commercial banks for relending to small scale industries
(SSIs); (ii) financing of the foreign exchange costs of technical assistance
provided by the Government to SSIs; and (iii) financing of studies relating to
the structure of incentives for SSIs.
Ln. No. 2082        Middle Atlas Agriculture Development Project:  US$29.0
million of March 5, 1982. Date of Effectiveness: November
30, 1982. Closing Date: June 30, 1988.
The project consists of interrelated forestry, range and cropping
land development to bring about production increases of meat, milk, fodder,
cereals and wood, on about 600 ha. in central Morocco, as well as to raise
income and employment among the target population.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
p. 8 of 8
Loan No. 2109       Small-Scale Mining Project: US$9.5 million of April 14,
1982.  Date of Effectiveness:  November 19, 1982.   Closing
Date: December 31, 1988.
This pilot project would increase the productivity of small-scale
lead and zinc mining operations through provision of equipment and facilities,
as well as credit to miners, in a remote region of Morocco thus increasing
exports and raising rural incomes. The project would also strengthen the
financial, technical and administrative base of CADETAF, the implementing
agency, and finance studies as a basis for future expansion of mining
activities. Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2110       Forestry Project: US$27.5 million of April 14, 1982.  Date
of Effectiveness: October 28, 1982. Closing date: June 30,
1988.
The project consists of destumping about 30,000 ha of eucalyptus
plantations and degraded oak and cork forests and replanting with eucalyptus,
pine and acacia; upgrading and construction of forest and access roads;
pasture improvement over 2,000 ha; and technical and institutional support.
Project implementation has commenced satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2114       Oil Shale Engineering Project: US$20.0 million of April 14,
1982. Date of Effectiveness: February 25, 1983. Closing
date: September 30, 1986.
The engineering project would finance studies and the construction of
a shale retorting test station to generate information and analysis on the
characteristics of Moroccan oil shale resources and on the technical and
economic viability of alternative options for their development. Project
implementation is proceeding slowly.
Loan No. 2149       Fifth Education Project: US$50.0 million of November 5,
1982. Not yet effective.  Closing date: March 31, 1988.
The project is designed to improve the effectiveness of primary
education and support expanded science and mathematics teaching at the senior
secondary level, through construction of four senior secondary teachers
training colleges, 40 rural primary schools and the provision of teaching aids
to about 700 primary schools and related technical assistance. Construction
of physical facilities is underway although there have been delays in defining
the terms of reference for the proposed technical assistance.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PILOT PROJECT FOR COMMUNAL INFRASTRUCTURE FUND
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Project Identification                                May 1980
(b)   Time taken by the Borrower to prepare project:    16 months
(c)   Agencies responsible for project preparation;         Government and Fonds
d'Equipement Communal
(d)   First Bank mission to review project:                 February 1981
(e)   Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:               June 1982
(f)   Date of completion of negotiations:                   March 25, 1983
(g)   Planned date of effectiveness:                        September 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Effectiveness
1.    Employment of the advisor responsible for assisting FEC in appraising
and supervising sub-projects (para. 53)
2.    Execution of the Financing Agreement between the Government and FEC
(para. 54).
Other Conditions
3.    All FEC's projects, irrespective of the source of refinance would be
subject to the appraisal and supervision criteria acceptable to the Bank
(para. 52).
4.    Refinancing from the Bank would be limited to a cost per sub-project of
DH 6.5 million ($l.O million) for sub-projects to be carried out by LCs
and to an amount of DH 5.0 million ($0.8 million) for sub-projects to be
carried out by Regies (para. 56).
5.    All sub-projects to be refinanced by the Bank would be submitted to the
Bank for approval (para. 56).
6.    Submission to the Bank of an organization plan by October 31, 1983
(para. 58).
7.    Completion of staff recruitment and submission of training program to
the Bank by January 1, 1984 (para. 59).
8.    Annual review of FEC's capital requirements and interest rates beginning
in 1983 (para. 62).



-I
i



__________________________   ________________________                                    ~~~~~~~IBRD   15252
SPAIN/0,0       ITALY,, rOCET,/O~-                                                                        to
. PORluX r7JslA -  ., , -36 KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                                                S A N Moy  r O                           A/ 8L a O
:;;: S 00:  ' 0 PuA9B : W :    e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OlgO 00-
Rao          /VN5A                               Mar rod ;                                                            hr or                         Mraar       p''>9    / i/
eonary reads                                             /oo       oo                            yr
i fi  m  0 p;Q ai;7t/\A -3- l\ A  LGERIA  A I
S~~~~~~ /  RDt;0/:f0 'tc                          - r 1c  ; 
r)csrN    iF  '. Ig hOOPS                                                                                                       AAar,oooo9 ,,j/   Arl-I   o oA R. O  WI  \
N    S. ~~~~~GYTRoflwoys                                                                                 Coh~o        ld     o
AI) 'RrsM. 0                                                                                                   0 A           erc    j \
;,0 :0:,        MAI3' [:   / 0 / /  /                      -~t Sjo e4rb j                                                   NIOEI 0000    10      20
/3rO>  o'o..t                  200 ;             -. Sal =     lakess ~                                                                 9                   ~0
i  Major irrigation perimetora            m,CtAoo-d
-                      -EIRA400 milIjo/otor romfotli hVe     CsUo                     120                                           rhr
-  md/cobs Tire terrVItor  qI The tqrmor       oc...-     O rd      '-/000,
32'                                          Sposoir Sairoro CO/estoiro Sahara)  So, -i h Sohm   (WSle,`o  Thdeo
,0T0   .~~~~~~~~ ~~~        X,,rordoo{    <" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32'-
CAARY  ISLANSAG                                                                                                                   T,,o,r
CrO0Ot/c              loofry,~~~ly
7    0000/00,00                                       N,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
34'  .                                                                                    N. N.                                2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
Ad StDo klN
7  .                                                                        0/t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OME/LRS 0  101/    20/0 300    400/
M A   U   R   I T   A   N   I  A
M                                                                                             Ni/or0~~~~~~~~f4



