 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14828

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 10/29/2015

               Country: Philippines
             Project ID: P073488                                                    Appraisal              Actual
          Project Name: Armm Social Fund              Project Costs (US$M):                     40.60               76.46
                         Project
  L/C Number:                                            Loan/Credit (US$M):                    33.60               60.84
      Sector Board:         Agriculture and Rural        Cofinancing (US$M):                     7.00               15.62
                            Development
            Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                                 12/05/2002
                                                                 Closing Date:            06/30/2008           05/31/2014
          Sector(s):        Other social services (100%)
          Theme(s):         Rural services and infrastructure (40%); Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction
                            (40%); Participation and civic engagement (20%)

Prepared by:                Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                    Coordinator:
Nicholas David York         Christopher David       Christopher David          IEGPS1
                            Nelson                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 This review is of the Social Fund Project in the Autonomous Region of Mindanao (ARMM) in the Republic of
Philippines, supported by IBRD loans totalling $63.60 million, of which $33.60 million was agreed in November 2002
and an additional $30.0 million in April 2010.

The objective of the Project, according to the Loan Agreement, 20 January 2002 (p.16) is:

"To assist the Borrower in reducing poverty by fostering sustainable development in the Autonomous Region in
Muslim Mindanao."

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) of 6 November 2002 (p. 3) provides a more specific set of objectives. It also
says that the overall goal is about poverty and sustainable development, but in addition refers to promoting a peaceful
and safe environment and it lists 4 specific objectives within the overall goal.

The project objective in the PAD is stated as follows:

"To foster sustainable development in the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao through reducing poverty and
supporting mechanisms for the promotion of a peaceful and safe environment in the conflict-affected areas.

Specific project objectives are to:

(a) provide and/or improve sustained access to social and economic infrastructure and services by the poor and
conflict-affected poor communities

(b) provide capacity building for women, youth and other community groups for improving food security, employment
opportunities and household incomes

(c) strengthen social cohesion and partnerships between and within communities in the ARMM region
(d) improve local governance and institutional capacities for implementation in the ARMM region, with a focus on
improved transparency and accountability in the allocation and management of public resources by the participating
communities, local government units and ARMM Regional Government."

The wording of the objectives changed during restructuring, but as explained in the Project Paper of April 2010 (see p
11), this was a mainly technical rather than a substantive change. The specific project objectives were organized in a
slightly different way in that the second objective of capacity building is merged with the first one of improving access.
At the same time, there were various changes in the project indicators, which were substantive (see below).
While not normally the practice in IEG, for this ICR review, the objectives are taken to be as in the PAD, since they
closely align with the legal agreement but are more specific and outcome focused and therefore provide a clearer
basis for the review.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 05/25/2010

c. Components:
 Component 1. Community Development Assistance (at appraisal $25.99 million, 88% Bank financing, actual $60.89
million)

This component was to finance the development and implementation of a community-driven development program
through the provision of:

(i) block grants to community groups for the construction, rehabilitation and improvement of small-scale social and
economic infrastructure (including rural water supply and sanitation systems, small scale irrigation schemes,
rainwater tanks, barangay health stations, communal schools, community learning centers, post-harvest facilities,
farm-to-market and barangay roads, timber ports and bridges, and the rehabilitation of damaged houses).

(ii) community-oriented training and training for community development groups and service providers to improve
access of the people to community services;

(iii) capacity building, technical and financial assistance to women's groups and out-of-school youth

Component 2. Strategic Regional Infrastructure (at appraisal, $5.47 million, 85% Bank financing, actual $5.66
million)

This component was to finance the rehabilitation of larger infrastructure damaged during the conflict in 2000. Thirteen
sub projects were prioritized in line with ARMM's regional development plan, including facilities for health, education,
human resource development, social services and ports. It would also provide technical assistance for the Regional
Government to procure, manage and monitor the strategic regional infrastructure projects.

Component 3. Institutional Strengthening and Governance (at appraisal $8.80 million, 66% Bank, actual $9.49
million)

This component was to finance four types of activities:

1. Information, education and communication activities to support institutional strengthen and governance for local
and regional government and to develop public awareness on the project.

2. Strengthening of capacity for project implementation, including staff training and development of operational and
administrative guidelines.

3. Enhancing the community-based education system in ARMM for mainstreaming in the formal national education
system, including the development of curricula and educational materials, piloting of community-based schools and
training.

4. Project management and implementation support, including audits of Project accounts and strengthening
operational and administrative capacity of the Social Fund, the ARMM government, local government, community
groups and NGOs involved in the Project.
d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
Dates

The project was extended 4 times, including a Board approved formal restructuring which extended it by 3 years and
expanded the coverage of the project. The extensions were partly due to understandable delays in implementation
because of the inherent security and conflict issues involved in working in Mindanao.

The changes of dates were as follows:

- Extended by 12 months on 16 January 2008 from its original closing date in June 2008 to June 2009; and again by a
further 11 months on 30 June 2009, from June 2009 to end May 2010. These extensions were caused by project
delays reflecting an over-optimistic implementation schedule and highly centralized project management, which held
up the project implementation, the project having been run from Manila during the initial phase.

- Extended by 36 months on 25 May 2010, from end May 2010 to end May 2013, at which time the Board approved
additional financing of $30 million. The main reasons for the additional financing project were to expand its coverage
(i.e. to provide community development assistance for an additional 500 barangays and supporting investments in
institutional strengthening and governance).

- Extended by 12 months from end May 2013 to end May 2014 to address understandable delays caused by security
issues, including the unexpected change of the ARMM government in 2010 and occasional spikes in armed conflict
between government and separatist forces and also serious communal conflicts in project locations.

IEG has chosen not to undertake a split evaluation here as the restructure and associated adjustments did not make a
material difference to the achievement against the PDO.

Project costs

At closure the final project disbursement from IBRD was $60.97 million, which was 95.9% of the original appraisal
estimate of $33.60 million when combined with the additional $30 million agreed at restructuring. However, $2.63
million of IBRD loans had been cancelled during the project, which removes this underspend. The ICR shows the
project costs at appraisal and actual to be the same.

The amount disbursed from IBRD prior to the formal restructuring in 2010, when the project development indicators
changed substantively, was $33 million, or 54.1% of the final total cost of the IBRD financed part of the project, of
$60.84 million.

Financing including borrower contribution

At appraisal, the expected share of financing was $33.6 million from IBRD and $7 million from the Borrower, so IBRD
accounted for 82.8% of total costs. By closure, the actual share of IBRD financing was somewhat lower (79.6%). The
actual borrower contribution to the overall project had increased by 123% to $15.62 million and IBRD contribution had
increased by 81% to $60.84 million.

At appraisal, the total project cost including both Borrower and the IBRD financed element of the project was expected
to be $40.26 million, which then increased to $76.46 million. Of this, $0.4 million was for front-end fees.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
High

The ARMM SFP is clearly relevant to the objectives of the Government of Philippines, and the objectives of the World
Bank Group as set out in the new Country Partnership Strategy. Community development and capacity building in the
fragile situation which Mindanao represents is a high priority both for the Government of the Philippines - who
requested continued engagement by the WBG - and for the WBG given its overriding goals of poverty reduction and
shared prosperity. This reflects among other things the linkages between conflict and poverty, the high rates of
poverty in Mindanao and the importance (using the framework developed in the WDR 2011) of establishing higher
levels of social cohesion, strengthening local government capacity, and providing opportunities for jobs in such fragile
situations.
b. Relevance of Design:
High

The results framework in Annex 1 of the PAD does not set out a program logic explicitly but the discussion of the
intended benefits in the PAD, and the matrix provided in Annex 1 provides a reasonably clear framework about how
the project was intended to achieve its results :

- the components (Community development assistance, Strategic regional infrastructure, Capacity building,
Institutional strengthening) feed into the project objectives listed below.

- the project objectives (Sustained access to services, Improved capacity of local communities, Local governance,
institutional capacity and transparency) are intended to achieve the intermediate outcomes listed below.

- the intended intermediate outcomes (sustained access to basic services, food security, employment opportunities,
social cohesion, incomes) can be seen to relate clearly to the overall project goal and final impact (reduced poverty,
peace and security)

  Section 3 of the PAD also shows good consideration at project design stage of lessons learned from other social
fund projects and community-driven projects, including a comprehensive review by the Operations Evaluation
Department of the WBG carried out at the time. The experience of the Southern Zone of Peace and Development
(SZOPAD) Social Fund project informed a decision to keep the project simple and flexible, to use a comprehensive,
program approach, to provide a demand-driven menu to address socio-economic needs, and to go well beyond the
immediate need for a quick response mechanism for post conflict. The decision to target the project directly at village
level was innovative. The use of Municipal Multi-Sector Committees as a mechanism to involve tribal elders and
religious leaders, and representatives of groups involved in the conflict such as the Moro National Liberation Front,
was an important aspect of design and there was good consideration of the need to avoid creating additional tensions
through competition for funds between local groups.

There were minor shortcomings. The PAD could have discussed in more depth how the intended outcomes and
impact would be sustained beyond the life of the project - there is some discussion of lessons from previous projects
in relation to sustainability, and the need to build social cohesion and partnerships, and to involve local stakeholders,
but there is relatively little information provided on this key aspect, which is a risk in all CDD projects of this type. In
addition, it would have been useful to understand in the PAD how the phasing towards the end of the first 5 years was
intended to build a platform for continued financing and ownership by communities. One aspect of project design
which was presumably important for sustainability was the decision whether or not to have implementation by existing
Mindanao based agencies; this was rejected in favor of setting up a high level authority and using a semi-autonomous
agency, to ensure flexibility and responsiveness during the lifetime of the project, but raises a question of whether this
missed an opportunity to build sustainability through using and strengthening local capacity and systems. Given the
importance of local stakeholders and the complexities of the region, the decision at the start of the project (later
changed) to site the locus of project management in Manila was a weak aspect of project design.

Discussion with the team showed, however that sustainability did in fact feature in their thinking during the project and
as it evolved. Operations and maintenance plans were in place and mostly followed. A significant amount of financing
was likely to be sustained due to projects generating income locally and high levels of government ownership (staff
were seconded by the ARMM who are now putting around $3m per annum into continuing with the project activities)
and that a survey of around 10% of sub-projects (some 65 in all) revealed that 80% were still functional although there
were some technical problems with water supply systems.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  The degree of achievement of the project's development objectives:

to foster sustainable development in the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao through reducing poverty and
supporting mechanisms for the promotion of a peaceful and safe environment in the conflict-affected areas

is considered separately for each of the three sub-objectives as follows:

Sub-objective 1 (revised): improve access to social and economic infrastructure and livelihood opportunities -
Substantial

NB. This is the revised objective set out in the restructuring paper and is intended to be a combination of the two
sub-objectives 1 and 2 set out in the original PAD listed below.
   Sub-objective 1: provide and/or improve sustained access to social and economic infrastructure and services by
     the poor and conflict-affected poor communities
    Sub-objective 2: provide capacity building for women, youth and other community groups for improving food
     security, employment opportunities and household incomes

The assessment of outcomes and impact draws on a high quality statistical analysis and beneficiary survey carried
out in 2009, after the original loan phase, and a follow up survey in 2014. Information is presented in the ICR on
access to services, human welfare, consumption and perceived quality of life and optimism for the future. No direct
information is presented on employment opportunities or food security, although household consumption is presented
in a proxy for both. Disaggregated data for women, youth and other targeted groups are not provided except in a
rather limited sense - there is a breakdown by gender of the number of project beneficiaries but no data on outcomes
for them separately.

Outcomes

Table A3.3 of the ICR provides an in-depth overview of progress against the KPIs for the project. Significantly, by
2009, the following effects were noted:

    no overall change (although some regional differences) in the Human Welfare Index comparing the project with
     the control, and comparing before and after.

    a positive impact on incomes and/or food security as shown by the households who had to reduce consumption
     in the project areas, of between 7.6% and 17.9%. But this was not sustained beyond 2009, see below.

    A small reduction in travel time to health facilities and no change in travel time for schools

    No significant improvement in the perceived quality of life was recorded. However, there was a significant impact
     on levels of optimism for the future in the relevant communities. The project had an 11.1% impact on the
     proportion of residents reporting a big chance of improving their lives.

In a follow up survey in 2014, at project closure, achievements were recorded as follows:

    No change in access to communal services was attributable to the project. The percentage of households
     reporting reduced travel time and cost of access to communal basic services by the end of the project was 7-14%
     (target 15%). However, this was not statistically significant when comparing the treatment to the control.

    Access to local agricultural services: there was a 20% (target 18%) increase in access to local agricultural
     facilities comparing the treatment with the control group, between 2012 and 2014

    No statistically significant impact on household consumption between 2012 and 2014, attributable to the project,
     although as discussed in the ICR there were other factors which might explain this, including the relatively small
     size of the project and its effect may have been dwarfed by an improvement in the macroeconomic position and
     security situation throughout the region, both for control and treatment areas.

  A high proportion (86%) of beneficiary households felt that the project investments met their needs
but there was no significant effect on their confidence in their ability to influence decisions on identifying local
development priorities.

The ICR also cites data on improvements in functional literacy and numeracy:

    literacy training reached 62,400 beneficiary households (target 57,900) resulting in 99% of beneficiaries
     increasing literacy in the sense of at least 1 adult family member able to read or write.

Targeted groups

    The number of women who were direct project beneficiaries was 508,600 (target 759,000) which is 51.5% (target
     55%) of the total including men and women and means that the project achieved 67% of the target for women
     beneficiaries for the project. No outcome data is presented or recorded for women or other targeted groups
     separately which would have made the achievement more granular and useful.

In summary, the outcomes on this sub-component were mixed. While there were positive changes in a few areas,
they were either small or not statistically significant, with the exception of literacy. Access to communal services did
not improve as a consequence of project inputs alone and outcome data was not presented separately for targeted
groups, which is an important gap. While it is reasonable to expect that a number of project activities can be expected
to have outcomes in the longer term, more detailed information on how and when this might eventuate would be
useful.

Sub-objective 2: strengthen social cohesion and partnerships between and within communities in the ARMM region
- Modest

Outcomes

By 2009, the following effects were noted:

    No significant impact on participation as measured by membership in organizations or participation in collective
     work.
    A 3% increase in people stating their opinions count in what needs to be done in the village, with a 14% increase
     where both sub-project cycles were complete
    An increase in women's representation (from 36.7% to 53.5% ) in one area, Sulu, but a decline in the other area
     (no figures provided).
    Small positive impacts on trust, of 9.5% in Lanao del Sur and 3.0% in Sulu, within an overall context where trust
     levels were negatively affected by the conflict during this period, both in the control and treatment areas.
    Both negative and positive effects on whether respondents felt safe from crime and violence. The impact was
     negative in Lanao del Sur (-5.3%) but positive in Sulu (11.9%)

These indicators were not collected in the follow-up survey, so no information is available on impact at project closure
on social cohesion and partnerships. Once again results were mixed, but little to indicate that the project made much
progress on explicitly and legitimately improving social cohesion.

Sub-objective 3: improve local governance and institutional capacities for implementation in the ARMM region , with
a focus on improved transparency and accountability in the allocation and management of public resources by the
participating communities , local government units and ARMM Regional Government - Modest

While there was extensive activity within the project in the formulation of the village plans and numerous training for
relevant officials, IEG does not find progress on this objective convincing. The information presented by the ICR
(table 1 on page 17) records the following outcomes for this objective:

    7% increase in collective action
    7% increase in awareness of barangay assemblies
    5% increase in participation in barangay assemblies

But there was limited change in views on the capacity of local governments and as the ICR points out, the capacity did
not lead to broader reforms in LGU processes. Despite these shortcomings, of note were the gains made with regards
to the cooperation and responsiveness of the ARMM Regional Government. While there is limited information on
exactly what impact the project had on specific changes in the Regional Government, there is little doubt that they
developed their capacity in the management of projects, the coordination of regions, and the ability to plan for
resource disbursements.


 5. Efficiency:
   At appraisal, the Project Appraisal document presents a cost benefit analysis (see Annex 4 of the PAD) which is
illustrative and conservative. The PAD notes the difficulty of estimating the costs of conflict and/or attributing to the
project the benefits of conflict prevention and achieving peace, which depends on many factors. The analysis includes
estimates of the following:

- the benefits of community infrastructure such as reducing travel times, having better access to clean water, with
resulting reductions in time spent collecting water, and additional income and reductions in post harvest losses from
agricultural infrastructure (post harvest facilities).

- the benefits of strategic regional infrastructure, including developing the port facility, a regional and provincial
manpower training center, and rehabilitation of the provincial and district hospital, which is assumed to impact on
morbidity.

At completion, the ICR presents (see Annex 4) a cost-benefit analysis which is mainly focused on the community
based infrastructure components but also looks at strategic regional infrastructure. The ICR also presents a
cost-effectiveness analysis comparing the CBI sub-projects with the average costs of a sister project at national level.
The estimate of the average weighted EIRR is about 14.5% (compared with a target 14% and also higher than the
opportunity cost of capital of 12%). The overall EIRR appears to be made up of the individual EIRRs for each
sub-project type (eg. school buildings, roads etc) but no information is provided on the source data or assumptions on
the EIRR for each sub-project type, other than the articulation of comparisons being based on equivalent results for
the Kalahi-CIDSS program.

The cost-effectiveness analysis shows that the average cost of CBI subprojects in ASFP is lower for two types of
projects than the comparator (66% of the benchmark for roads and 73% of the benchmark for water supply), around
the same for health stations (105%) and more than three times higher for school buildings (339%). The higher costs
of school buildings are presumably due to the higher costs of building given the geography of the region, with lower
population density and more geographically isolated villages. Overheads are also shown to be relatively high for this
project.

The efficiency of the project is rated as Substantial given the reasonable EIRR. While the high costs (and low return)
from school buildings is significant these can be offset against the better rates for roads and water supply.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

      Appraisal                      Yes                                      14%                                     70%

      ICR estimate                   Yes                                    14.47%                                    62%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Relevance of objectives is rated high, as is project design. The project fitted well both with the GOP objectives and
the Bank's country partnership objectives; and its design took careful account of lessons from previous projects, was
innovative in some aspects, sensitive to the conflict environment and used a comprehensive program approach.

Despite being relevant, the project evidence suggests it only made modest gains against most of the intended
outcomes. Efficacy of the first sub-objective was found to be substantial with a mix of progress made against the
range of expected outcomes. Progress against sub-objective 2 and 3 was limited with little sign of significant impact
on social cohesion, sustained or otherwise, which is surely a key objective for a CDD project in a conflict region. As
the ICR discusses at length, this may simply have been because the project did not have sufficient time to achieve its
objectives prior to the assessment of outcomes - which perhaps points to a lack of realism in the targets. It may also
have been more ambitious than previous experience on CDD would indicate, as the team noted in comparing with the
Kalahi-CIDDs sister project when revising indicators.

The efficiency of the project was substantial with a reasonable EIRR of 14.5% and a fairly well managed
administrative function

Taking these factors into account, outcome is rated as Moderately Satisfactory .
 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
  There are a number of significant risks to the project development outcomes:

     Security. The complex and difficult operating environment caused by the security situation in Mindanao remains
      tenuous and will continue to be of concern while rebel groups continue to engage with government and
      settlement is not guaranteed.
     The lack of capacity at the local government level continues to be a concern and may prevent further progress in
      supporting the instituted community structures.

     a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:
 a. Quality at entry:
    In terms of strategic relevance and approach, the project design built well on previous CDD programs with
clear evidence of learning from the earlier Southern Zone of Peace and Development Social Fund and other
sources of learning, including the comprehensive OED review at the time. There were several positive features
of design and some good technical, financial and economic aspects, such as

i) the fact that ASFP was targeted directly at village level and the steps taken to ensure local ownership and not to
add to conflict (eg. involvement of tribal elders and other local leaders in the MSMCs).

ii) an effective anti-corruption strategy including the use of geo-tagging and independent third party spot checks.

iii) a detailed economic appraisal

iv) a high quality statistical analysis of impact with a full baseline survey and impact analysis at the end of the first
phase (prior to extension) with a follow up survey.

Less positive was the decision to implement from Manila in the first phase of the project. With hindsight, this does
seem to have led to delays in the project and probably should have been foreseen given that the complexity of
these programs does benefit from being close to project delivery.

There were other shortcomings in quality at entry as follows:

(i) initially weak M&E design. As the ICR noted, the indicators adopted at the outset of the project were not all
measurable and the M&E framework was overly complicated. In acknowledging this with regards to project entry,
the team did an excellent job at revisiting these issues during implementation.

(ii) little discussion of "elite capture" and how it may be addressed

(iii) lack of any detailed consideration of how the benefits to particular vulnerable groups would be achieved or
measured, including women and youth who were intended beneficiaries.

(iv) the objective of creating employment opportunities as one mechanism for building peace and stability and
tackling poverty was not followed through into how the project was designed or how impact was measured.

Despite these shortcomings, and allowing for the complexity and challenges of the operating environment and
giving due credit for the learning aspects shown in the project design at entry, and how these design features
responded to the environment, quality at entry is rated as moderately satisfactory.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                         Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:
   Three issues seem particularly relevant in the assessment of quality of supervision of ASFP:

- First, the risks of corruption were mitigated through prevention - use of geo-tagging and independent third party
spot checks - and through targeted communication to identify and handle risks and follow-up actions such as
withholding of funds. In this aspect the supervision was successful in "combating isolated cases of corruption."

- Second, the ICR notes the important adverse impact of the Ampatuan administration in relation to security and
subproject selection, the issues in relation to the Maguindanao massacre and the suspension of elections and
resulting delays in the project during the government transition. While these are political and external factors (
described in the ICR as outside the control of the government or implementing agency, which is perhaps
understandable), the decisions on how to react to the situation were clearly part of the Bank supervision decisions.


- Third, the project was subject to delays for a number of other reasons related to security risks, the capacity of
the local government and decision to manage the project from Manila, quality and approach to facilitation at
municipal level.

Overall, the management of these risks by the Bank's supervision team had some positive effects, including the
way the Mid-Term Review led to follow up actions on the fiduciary side, and the attention paid to preventing
corruption and the use of the grievance redress mechanism. The team deserves particular credit for the way it
handled the restructure and the concerted effort it made in defining and presenting a cohesive set of proxy
indicators for the project. In addition, the inclusion of an impact evaluation tracking progress is rare in CDD
projects and the team has done a good job in reflecting on what the results mean for the future.

In addition, the identification of isolated cases of corruption shows that there were appropriate controls in place to
pick these issues up and a set of protocols to deal with them.

Yet supervision was not entirely successful, as the ICR notes, there were issues with regards to security which
caused considerable delays in certain facets of the project.

Taking these different factors into account, most of which are outside the control of the project team and making
due allowance for the complexity of the operating environment and factors beyond the control of the Bank or
indeed the implementing agency, the quality of supervision is rated as Satisfactory.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    A strong positive aspect of the government performance on this project was the high level of ownership and
commitment demonstrated by the GOP over a sustained period toward the project and its aims, despite the
political sensitivity and complexity of the issues. The ARMM government also demonstrated commitment and, for
example allocated its staff where required to build up the capacity of the local implementation. On the other hand,
the initial decision to manage the project from Manila was, as the ICR notes, inconsistent with the policy aim of
Mindanaoan driven development and the political risks to the project already described, in relation to
Maguindanao, were to some extent driven by the governance of ARMM.

   Government Performance Rating                                 Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The initial problems with implementation were significant, and the implementation schedule proved to have
been too ambitious, but issues were identified and managed in many cases and the project management seems
to have worked hard to address issues in a complex and challenging environment. The institutional strengthening
put in place during the project was a positive feature. Financial management was mixed and the deficiencies
included delays in loan covenants in relation to internal audit and spot checks, funds disbursed by the PMO shortly
before the loan closing date when there was too little time for them to be used, and four of the eleven project
financial statements were qualified. Procurement was adequate.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                         Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   On the positive side, the M&E design was well owned, there was a clear baseline and two impact surveys, one in
2009 - which included a high quality statistical analysis and a full comparison with a control to specify a
counterfactual, and one in 2014 (although it was not possible to compare the two surveys since they measured
different things). This is rare in CDD projects, and the ARMM team took considerable time and effort to make this
happen.

Having acknowledged this, there were minor shortcomings in the design of the M&E system for this project, since - as
the ICR notes on page 11 - the PAD "did not contain a description of the M&E system envisaged at appraisal" and
some of the indicators chosen were not measurable and had to be substantively changed at a later stage after design
and the overall approach was more complex than required (also, but more for clarity than substance, two of the
objectives were changed during the project to merge them together). The degree of disaggregation of indicators in
relation to gender was limited and in relation to youth employment, one of the original objectives, was entirely absent.



 b. M&E Implementation:
   The M&E implementation also had some shortcomings, since although the quarterly progress reports (monitoring
data) were collected in a timely fashion and the PMO used a dashboard to track progress on inputs and and activities,
there were delays in other areas (including the beneficiary survey) and spot checks were carried out infrequently. The
deficiencies in the original indicator design were addressed after the project was extended and the indicators and
M&E design were made more focused and useful.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   Based on the ICR, it appears that the M&E utilization was modest and focused mainly on short-term monitoring
rather than strategic use of evaluation to shift resources to maximise the outcomes and improve the implementation of
the project. There were some sensible changes in design during the project, for example, moving the administrative
base for implementation to Mindanao from Manila, to mitigate risks of delays.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was classified as Category B for purposes of Environmental Assessment. As well as Environmental
Assessment (OP 4.01), two other safeguards were triggered at appraisal: OP4.20 on Indigenous Peoples and OP
4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement. The ICR states (p 12) that the overall safeguards rating was "satisfactory"
throughout most of the project implementation period' and that "recording of potential social and environmental
impacts was adequate, and compliance with safeguards was generally good.' The interview with the team also
mentioned that an adequate Grievance and Redress mechanism was put in place during the project.

Environment
Although carefully monitored during appraisal and implementation, environmental impact of this project was small.
The PAD(p 27) records that satisfactory environmental screening criteria and processes had been developed as part
of the appraisal and approval process for sub-projects. An Environmental Management Plan was to be developed,
although this was not part of the available documentation to IEG so information is taken from documents prepared in
2010 when the project was restructured, including the Integrated Safeguards Datasheet prepared at that time. This
datasheet also states that "The project will not have any large scale or irreversible impacts." This is consistent with
the nature of the project activities in a CDD project of this type, since the sub-projects were confined to building or
rehabilitating small-scale infrastructure such as classrooms, day-care centers, simple water supply systems and
community meeting places.

Indigenous Peoples

An inherent feature of the design of the ARMM SFP at the outset, with its objectives of building social cohesion and
partnerships between and within local communities, was that it was participatory and consultative. This included social
assessment and focus group discussions with relevant groups as part of the appraisal process for sub--projects. The
relevant group recognized as an indigenous people for this project is the Teduray, who reside mainly in Maguindanao
province and number under 200,000 in ARMM. The 2010 Integrated Safeguards Datasheet (p 4) states that in the
original loan, care was taken to ensure indigenous people were adequately represented and their needs addressed
through community planning processes. An indigenous peoples planning framework was developed in 2010 during
the project restructuring.

Involuntary Resettlement
Based on the documents available and the interview with the Task Team Leader, it appears that involuntary
resettlement due to the project itself was not a significant issue, although the conflict affecting the region more broadly
led to hundreds of thousands of people being displaced. According to the team, involuntary resettlement was on the
negative list of activities permitted for the project while according to the involuntary resettlement policy documents it
"could be avoided by locating sub-projects in unoccupied public land or private land voluntarily donated to the project."
This is described in a resettlement policy framework which was developed in 2002 and updated in January 2010, and
cleared by the EAP Safeguards secretariat the following month. In practice, the only significant issue was that
voluntary land donations had to be properly certified including "due diligence and transparency" to avoid conflicts at a
later stage over land.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial management: the ICR states (p 12) that the financial management was "mostly satisfactory." This included
recruitment of "capable financial managers", regular audits, geotagging and spot checks by the project team. One
example of the arrangements working as intended, cited by the WBG team, was that a potential issue they identified
and raised with INT turned out to have been picked up and dealt with locally already by the project management unit's
own checks and balances. A Special Audit was carried out by the Commission on Audit in 2010 following the events
in Maguindanano, the aftermath of the massacre and suspension of elections, which also was a major contributor to
delay in the implementation of the project. The report is critical of the project and there is significant disagreement
between the auditors and the management team; the World Bank supervisory team followed up closely on this to
directly validate and verify the findings of the COA report and concluded that nearly all of the issues related to JICA
funded sub-projects.

 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
One positive impact which resulted (see ICR p 19) was that the ARMM regional government was able to use the
project to establish itself as a reliable and competent Executing Agency of projects financed by development partners.
This was a point raised by the workshop of key stakeholders in preparing the ICR. It may also as a result have
helped to leverage additional funding of CDD projects and regional infrastructure by other development partners in the
region.

 d. Other:
A notable feature of the project was the major challenges it faced due to unforeseen external events including political
upheaval and security problems (the Maguindanao massacre in November 2009 and the subsequent imposition of
martial law, then an interim government). There were also spikes in violent conflict in 2003 and 2008 particularly.


12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Significant         There are considerable political,
                     Outcome:                                                   security and capacity issues that
                                                                                potentially threaten the gains made by
                                                                                the project.
           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 IEG notes 5 lessons, drawing on the ICR on p 24 and discussions with the team:

- CDD projects in conflict-affected areas should be simple, flexible and responsive to demand to ensure maximum
ownership and participation. This project had learned this lesson from the previous program in the region and this
lesson was reinforced during its own implementation, since these were the features that helped to ensure strong
community participation and some of the benefits that arose.

- local or regional governments, as compared with national governments, may be a good option as the
implementing agency for community driven development programs, especially if CDD is being applied to a
challenging situation with conflict and security issues. The project functioned better once the project management
unit had been devolved from Manila to the ARMM and the building of local capacity was an important aspect of its
flexibility and ability to keep going despite events.

- spot checking and geo tagging are effective means for Bank supervision in otherwise inaccessible areas. As the
ICR notes (p 24), the project was hampered by the security and accessibility issues throughout its life (there was
also significant flooding in the area), and spot checking and geo tagging were able to provide useful information to
ensure fiduciary compliance and monitor quality.

- set realistic targets that can be measured accurately and plan in sufficient time for results to come through
achieved before assessing impact. The positive features of this project were somewhat undermined by the weak
design of the results framework and the mixed outcomes. The design team had set a number of indicators and
targets that could not realistically be achieved and had to be substantively revisited after several years. It was
thought that one reason for the mixed results on outcomes and impact found in the project was that implementation
was still underway or only recently completed when impact was assessed. The project team intend to run an
impact evaluation survey 12 months later but this had not been planned in or financed.

- to ensure sustainability and impact, deeper and more sustained investment in CDD for a relatively focused group
of communities and villages may be a good way forward, compared with maximizing coverage.

14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR was candid, clear and provided an interesting and well written discussion of the challenges and
implementation lessons for this challenging type of project. It outlined a sensible and clear performance narrative and
matched this to relevant project data.

While the evidence is clearly laid out, it would have been helpful to be clearer about the source of data at times and
the analysis could have been more explicit in linking shortcomings in the impact data with qualitative observations or
materials.

Having said that, the report is results oriented, satisfies the guidelines and is concise in its conclusions. For this
reason the ICR quality is rated Satisfactory.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
