Report No. PIC1797
Project Name              India-UP Diversified Agriculture Support (DASP)
Region                    South Asia
Sector                    Agriculture
Project ID                INPA35824
Implementing Agency       Office of the Agriculture Production
Commissioner, Government of U.P. (GOUP)
Contact: B. N. Tiwari
Agriculture Production Commissioner, GOUP
Lucknow 226001
Telephone: 91-522-242421
Fax 91-522-242143
Date PID Prepared         March, 1995
Projected Board Date      October, 1996
1.  Project Objectives.   The main objectives of the proposed project
would be to assist GOUP in accelerating agricultural diversification in
line with comparative advantage of different agro-ecological zones. The
strategy in pursuit of this objective would be to:
(a) develop and disseminate technologies that exploit market-led
opportunities for agricultural growth in crops, horticulture,
livestock and agro-processing in ways that alleviate poverty
and support environmentally sustainable development;
(b) support expansion and rehabilitation of rural infrastructure;
(c) test innovative approaches to beneficiary participation using
user groups and /or Panchyati Raj institutions; and
(d) integrate project investments with policies and
legislative/regulatory framework that provides enabling
environment for greater private sector participation
especially in post-harvest value added activities including
agro-processing.
2. Project Description. The U.P. DASP would be a sector investment
loan, financing an agreed state-wide program to accelerate agricultural
diversification supported by institutional upgrading and policy
adjustment lending to greater private sector participation. The main
components of the project would be:
(a) Strengthening of the Technology Base. The key activities to be
supported would include: (i) strengthening of agricultural
research and extension with emphasis on making these services
more demand driven and accountable to beneficiaries; and (ii)
improving availability of high-quality planting material for
key crops, fruits and vegetables through private sector;
(b) Improved Natural Resource Management. This component would
aim to improve farm productivity through: (i) pilot testing of



improved drainage network in Eastern U.P.; and (ii) supporting
measures to improve efficiency of nutrient use and reduction
of alkalinity;
(c) Support for Growth Enhancing Equity Generating Programs.
Financially strong income generating activities that largely
benefit the poor, especially women, would be supported. Other
selection criteria included: prospects for profitable markets
both for fresh and processed products; and significant
opportunities for productivity gains through technological
change and improved farm management practices. The specific
activities to be supported would include:
Livestock. Investment focus would be to achieve increases in
productivity and value addition through: (i) breed
improvement; (ii) better nutrition; (iii) improved health
care; and (iv) improved processing and marketing of livestock
products through private sector;
Sericulture. The main thrust of the investment program would
be to (i) motivate and train farmers in improved production
technique through NGOs; (ii) improve facilities for post-
cocoon production/processing; (iii) increase facilities for
production of planting material and silkworm seed; and (iv)
support adaptive research through existing sericulture
research station.
Horticulture. The project would assist with rehabilitation
and replanting of aging trees of apples (temperate fruit
production area of hill districts), mango, lychee and amla
(fruit production areas of western and central plains) and
citrus (arid to semi-arid areas of Bundelkhad region).
Legume and Oil Seeds Crops in Arid to Semi-arid District of
Bundelkhad Region. Increases in productivity would be
achieved through support for improved land management and
water harvesting techniques; availability of good quality seed
and promotion of improved farm management practices based on
established technologies.
(d) Support for Post-harvest Value Addition Activities through
Private Sector. The project would assist with establishment
of: (i) a venture capital fund to promote private investment
in post-harvest storage and handling facilities and agro-
processing; (ii) joint government-industry agri-business
project development facility to assist entrepreneurs in
developing new businesses or enlarging current operations;
(iii) training of entrepreneurs in agri-business; and (iv)
training and institutional support for the formation of
farmers groups and/or associations for greater vertical
integration of farm production activities with agro-
processing.
(e) Rural Infrastructure Development.
- 2-



Rural Roads. The roads sub-component is being designed in
such a way that the project districts would benefit by better
accessibility to markets, especially for the marketing of
perishable produce.   It is anticipated that 75-80w of the
investment under this sub-component would go towards
rehabilitation or upgrading of existing roads.
Rural Markets. The project would assist with the upgrading of
a selected number (to be decided) of haat-painths (village
markets) in project districts under the control of village
panchayats. In addition, assistance would also be provided
for construction of some market yards and two state-of-the-art
fruit and vegetable markets in partnerships with private
sector.
(f) Project Coordination. The project would finance establishment
of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU), headed by a senior staff
member at the level of Secretary to GOUP, in the office of
Agriculture Production Commissioner (APC). PCU would
coordinate implementation of all project activities, organize
monitoring and evaluation, and liaise with other line
departments of GOUP, NGOs, and private sector.
3.   Project Implementation.   The project components would be
implemented by the individual line departments of GOUP or other agencies
under the overall direction of the Agricultural Production Commissioner
(APC). He would be supported by PCU with responsibility for planning,
coordination, monitoring and financial control and agricultural policy
analysis. To guide project implementation three committees would be
established, two at the state level and one at district/block level.
The first would be the Project Steering Committee (PST), to be headed by
the Chief Secretary of the state, with other senior Secretaries and
three non-officials, representing farmers organizations, NGOs and
private sector, as members. PST would sanction the annual work plans,
review implementation progress, resolve inter-departmental conflicts and
provide policy guidance. The second, Project Management Committee
(PMC), with the APC as the chairperson and including departmental heads
as members, would prepare annual plans and address all implementation
issues. The third, the Project Implementation Liaison Committee (PILC)
would operate at district/block level with the District Magistrate as
chairperson and heads of other operational departments as members.
The PILC would also have representation from local government, NGOs and
farmers organizations. This committee would promote inter-agency
cooperation and farmer participation in project activities at the farm
level.
4.   Project Costs and Financing.   Total project base costs, inclusive
of Government/beneficiary funded maintenance and Government funded staff
salaries and overheads, are estimated at about US$ 240 million. A
proposed IDA Credit of about US$ 190 million would finance 79t of
project costs net-of-taxes. Disbursements under the Credit would be
against civil works, equipment and vehicles, agricultural research and
extension, training, and establishment of venture capital fund and
consultancies. Civil works would be small parcels and geographically
dispersed.
-3-



5.   Environmental Impact.   The project has been classified as +B+ as,
most of the components are not expected to have an adverse environmental
impact. The pilot program for drainage improvement in Eastern UP would
be closely monitored to assess improvements in soils conditions and its
impact on increasing farm productivity. The project is expected to have
a positive impact on the environment through improvement of farm
management practices, especially those related to land management.
Potential negative impacts resulting from increased use of applied
inputs (pesticides and fertilizers) due to intensification of
agriculture would be minimized through: (i) development and introduction
of Integrated Pest Management (IPM) systems, (ii) strengthening of soil
analysis and advisory capacity to ensure balanced use of nutrients; and
(iii) promotion of rotational cropping incorporating nitrogen-fixing
leguminous green manure crops and composting.
6. NGO and Beneficiary Participation. The project would promote
involvement of both intermediary and grassroots NGOs. Grassroots NGOs
would be trained by intermediary NGOs and together would play an
important role in motivating and training farmers and ensuring their
full participation in project activities. They would also assist in
delivery of support services, especially in areas where public services
have failed to make significant gains in the past.
7. Impact on Women. As in most other states in India, rural women in
UP play an important role in agriculture. They form the predominant
labor force in horticulture, livestock, sericulture and post-harvest
activities. As these sub-sectors are being especially targeted for
support under the project, they would benefit through greater access to
resources, technical know-how and opportunities for jobs. To ensure
that women participate actively in the design, planning and
implementation of project activities, a position for Women Development
Officer would be created in PCU. The incumbent would be responsible for
planning and coordination of training, awareness campaigns and
developing close links with other on-going poverty alleviation/social
programs.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
ENVIRONMENTAL OVERVIEW OF PROJECTS
IN THE IBRD/IDA LENDING PROGRAM:
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
Country: India       Project ID: IN-PA-35824
- 4-



Project: UP Diversified Agriculture Support Project
Total Project Cost: US$ 240 M       Credit Amount: US$ 190 M
Appraisal Date: November, 1995      Board Date: October, 1996
Managing Division: SA2AG            Sector: Agriculture
Lending Instrument: SIM
EA Category: B
Date Assi+d: February, 1995
DATA SHEET PREPARED:      March 28, 1995
MAJOR PROJECT COMPONENTS: The project would support: (a) strengthening
of technology base for sustainable growth through improved research,
extension, availability of high quality seed/planting material and
improved natural resource management practices and; (b) support for
growth enhancing programs covering selected commodities (oil seeds,
legumes, livestock, horticulture, sericulture) that largely benefit the
rural poor especially women; (c) strengthening of post-harvest value
addition activities through private sector development; (d) rural
infrastructure development; and (e) establishment of Project
Coordination Unit.
MAJOR ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES: The project is expected to be
environmentally positive. It would promote measures for improved land
and on-farm water management practices. The main focus of the rural
roads component would be on rehabilitation of roads already constructed
with the purpose of improving access to and between rural markets in
areas already developed for agriculture. The technology development and
dissemination activities would promote technologies for sustainable
development, including Integrated Pest Management (IPM) practices.
Whereever appropriate, agro-processing enterprises to be supported under
the project would be required to obtain all necessary clearances from
the State Pollution Control Board.
OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES: None
PROPOSED ACTIONS: The majority of project investments are in priority
sub-sectors over a broad geographic area which do not require specific
EAs. However, the project would include support to strengthen GOUP+s
office of the Agriculture Production Commissioner to carry out
environmental oversight (in the crop, livestock, horticulture and
sericulture sub-sectors) through existing administrative structures and
arrangements in GOUP. EA may be required for the construction and
rehabilitation of rural roads. Mitigation actions would be recommended,
wherever adverse conditions arise from the proposed roads layout.
JUSTIFICATION/RATIONALE FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CATEGORY: Designation of B
category is given in view of its limited environmental impact potential.
- 5 -



