Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17279-N
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THEW AMOUNT OF SDR 37.2 ($50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
AND A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$79.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
INDIA
FOR THE
UTTAR PRA]DESH DIVERSIFIED AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
APRIL 27, 1998
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective August 1, 1997)
Currency Unit      =   Indian Rupee
US$ 1.00           =   Rupees 36.0
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AG      Auditor General                               KS         Kissan Sahayak
Al      Artificial Insemination                       KVK        Krishi Vigyan Kendras
AMC    Agricultural Management Center                 M&E        Monitoring & Evaluation
APC    Agricultural Production Commission             MIS        Management Information System
ATMA  Agricultural Technology Management Agency       MOU        Memorandum of Understanding
AWP    Annual Work Plan                               NABARD   National Bank for Agricultural & Rural
Development
BIRD    Banker's Institute of Rural Development       MANAGE    National Agriculture Extension Management
Institute
CA      Chartered Accountant                          NATP       National Agricultural Technology Project
CARP   Competitive Agricultural Research Program      NGO        Non Govemment Organization
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy                    NPV        Net Present Value
CFO     Chief Financial Officer                       PAD        Project Appraisal Document
CIA     Chief Internal Advisor                        PCU        Project Coordination Unit
DASP   Diversified Agricultural Support Project       PC         Project Coordinator
DOA    Department of Agriculture                      PIU        Project Implementation Unit
DOAH   Department of Animal Husbandry                 PMC        Project Management Committee
DOH    Department of Horticulture                     PRA        Participatory Rural Appraisal
DOS    Department of Sericulture                      PSC        Project Steering Committee
DPIC    District Project Implementation Committee     PWD        Public Works Departnent
DPIU    District Project Implementation Unit          SA         Special Account
EPAU   Economic Policy Analysis Unit                  SAU        State Agriculture University
ERR    Economic Rate of Return                        SDC        Swiss Agency for Development and
Cooperation
FA      Farmer Association                            SEP        Strategic Extension Plan
IPM     Integrated Pest Management                    SLRP       Sodic Lands Reclamation Project
FD      Finance Department                            SMS        Subject Matter Specialist
FIG     Farner Interest Group                         SOE        Statement of Expenditure
GA      Gap Analysis                                  UP         Uttar Pradesh
GOI    Government of India                            VEW        Village Extension Worker
GOUP   Government of Uttar Pradesh
IPNM    Integrated Plant Nutrient Management
Vice President: Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director: Edwin R. Lirn
Sector Managers: Michael Baxter/Ridwan Ali
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Ashok K. Seth



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH DIVERSIFIED AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
A. Project Development Objective ..................................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ................................................2
B. Strategic Context ..................................................................2
1. Sector-related CAS  goal supported by the project .................................................................. 2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ..................................................................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .............................................3
C. Project Description  Summary ..................................................................4
1. Project components ............................................................4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ...................................................6
3. Benefits and target population ............................................................7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ............................................................7
D. Project Rationale ..................................................................11
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ......................................................... 11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ................... 13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ........................................................ 13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ...........................................................    14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ...........................................................                               14
E. Summary Project Analyses .................................................................                                                        15
1. Economic ...........................................................                                                                   15
2. Financial ............................................................ 16
3 . Technical ...........................................................                                                                17
4. Institutionall .........                                                                                                               18
5. Social .........                                                                                                                       21
6. Environmental assessment ............................                                                                                  23
7. Participatory approach ............................                                                                                    24
F. Sustainability and Risks ............................                                                                                              24
1. Sustainability ......................                                                                                                 24
2. Critical risks ......................                                                                                                  24
3. Possible controversial aspects ......................                                                                                  25



G. Main Loan Conditions ..........................                                   25
1. Effectiveness Condition ..........................                         25
2. Proposed Dated Covenants ..........................                         25
H. Readiness for Implementation ..........................                           27
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ..........................                          27
ANNEXES
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Attachment 1        Performance Indicators
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Attachment 1        Policy Matrix and
Cost Recovery Schedule
Attachment 2        Criteria for Research Evaluation
Attachment 3        Sub-sectoral Investment Matrix for Technology Dissemination
Attachment 4        NGO Participation & Selection
Attachment 5        Social Assessment
TOR 1 - Child Labor Study TOR
MOU 1 - Roads Land Acquisition MOU
MOU 2 - Improvement and Maintenance of Rural Haat
Painths (Village Markets) MOU
Attachment 6        Participatory M&E
Attachment 7        Environmental Plan
Attachment 8        Economic and Policy Analysis Unit
Attachment 9        Draft TOR for Review of Fiscal Issues in Agriculture
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Cost-Benefit and Financial Analysis Summary
Annex 5.     Financial Summary Table
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Map No. IBRD 29458



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH DIVERSIFIED AGRICULTuRAL SUPPORT PROJECT
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
South Asia Regional Office
Rural Development Sector Unit
Date:April 27, 1998                                                                           Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Ashok K Seth
Country Manager/Director: Edwin R. Lim                                                         Sector Managers: Michael Baxter/Ridwan Ali
Project ID: IN-PE-35824    Sector: Rural Development                                          Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustainable
Development
Lending Instrument: Credit/Loan                                                               Program of Targeted Intervention:                           11  Yes  [XI No
Project Financing Data                                             [X] Loan                  [X] Credit                    [  Guarantee                    [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: Credit SDR    million (US$50 million equivalent); Loan US$79.9 million
Proposed terms:                             IDA            IBRD   [ ]   Multicurrency                            [X]  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10                         5        [ ]   Standard Variable                   [    Fixed                           [X]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 35                       20
Commitment fee: 0.5%    0.75%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan: US$160.5 million
Government of Uttar Pradesh                                                                                30.6                                                          30.6
Cofmanciers
IBRD                                                                                                       66.2                             13.7                         79.9
IDA                                                                                                        41.3                               8.7                        50.0
Other (specify)
Total                                                           138.1                             22.4                        160.5
Borrower: Government of India
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies): Government of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):                                       1999                2000    1   2001                     2002  1 2003  1
Annua.l             21.8                33.8                28.5            26.7        19.1
Cumulative:               21.8   .            55.6                84.1           110.8    129.9
For Guarantees:                                                                     I [        Partial credit                [   Partial risk
.......................................................................... ......................1 .1.....................................................  ........................................................... ................................
Proposed coverage:
..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Poetsponsor:
P  o ec...............................................................................................................................................
Nature of underlying financing:
T.. "......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Terms of financing:
Principal amount (US$)
.........................................  .................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Final maturity
Amortization profile
T 11111                 ........................................................................................... ...j....................................................... .................................................................................
Financing available without guarantee?:                                                      [         Yes                           [         No
........................................... ..'t .... ...a""""ity.....................................................................  ............... . ........................................................... . ...................................
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
................... ...nc ...............................................................................................................................................................................................
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period:                        Expected effective date: September 30, 1998 Expected closing date: March 31, 2004



Project Appraisal Document                                      U.P Diversified Agricultural Support Project
iNDIA                                                                                        Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The principal objectives of the project would be to increase agricultural productivity through support for UP's
diversified agricultural production systems, promote private sector development, and improve rural infrastructure.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 17241-IN   Date of latest CAS discussion: January 15, 1998
Consistent with the government's national agenda for governance, the CAS places special emphasis on
accelerating sustainable agricultural growth and rural development through improved: (i) composition and
effectiveness of public spending to close productivity gaps in both irrigated and rainfed agriculture; (ii) technical,
financial and environmental performance of irrigation systems; (iii) food security and price stability; and, (iv)
environmental sustainability.
There are five main areas of project activity that address the CAS areas of special emphasis:
(a)    Improving Food Security. This is addressed by focusing on agricultural growth and increased local
participation and by providing the technologies, supporting services, and infrastructure that
respond to the needs of the rural poor.
(b)    Rural Restructuring and Public Expenditure Reforms. This is addressed through reforms related
to decentralization, the state-level policy areas of deregulation (e.g. in cold storage), cost recovery
across a wide range of supplies and services, marketing policy, public expenditure priority setting
processes, privatization (e.g., leasing and/or initiating economically viable alternative use of loss
making government farms), land issues related to seed production, regulatory frameworks and,
facilitation of contract growing arrangements.
(c)    Enhancing Institutional Capacity. The project addresses capacity building for both public and
private investment through training, institutional restructuring (e.g. in technology development
through initiation of a Competitive Agricultural Research Program (CARP), in extension by
moving towards a multi-institutional partnerships between public, private, NGOs and farmer's
interest groups), government staff redeployment, and substantial decentralization under the new
Panchayat Raj arrangement.
(d)    Improving Rural Infrastructure. This helps to provide the essential base for a number of the
strategic actions listed. It is addressed through both physical improvement and improvement in
management.
(e)    Enhancing Sustainability and Conserving Biodiversity. This is being addressed through Integrated
Pest Management (IPM) and Integrated Plant Nutrient Management (IPNM) sub-components and
through interventions to conserve diversity of local breed/variety diversity in livestock and crops.
While UP does not yet fall into the category of fully reforming states, it has widespread poverty and extreme
dependence on agriculture. It is rich in natural resources (land and water) but has a high population density and
declining soil fertility. It is the third poorest state in India with a per capita income of US$200 and a poverty index
(head count) of 40 percent (42 percent in the rural areas) compared to an average for the country of 35 percent.



Project Appraisal Document                                    U.P Diversified Agricultural Support Project
INDIA                                                                                     Page 3
More than 80 percent of the people in UP live in the rural areas and 75 percent are dependent on agriculture for
their livelihood.I
UP is also a state with a good record of implementing development projects. Under this project, it is embarking on
a program of institutional and infrastructure development with significant moves toward increased participation
and privatization. Furthermore, the record of the state in approaching the important and wide spread problem of
land degradation, especially with respect to sodic lands, is extremely encouraging. Though the problem is
massive, a start has been made through the first IDA-financed pilot operation, Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands
Reclamation Project (Cr. 251 0-IN), which has developed successful models for land reclamation in some of the
poorest regions of the state. The state is continuing this work with increased emphasis on more sustainable
management of natural resources based on strong beneficiary participation.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Some key sector and economy-wide issues remain to be addressed. UP is not yet one of the states with a program
of fiscal reform agreed with the Bank. Issues requiring further attention include state subsidies on rural power and
water, commodity price distortions; and cost recovery and privatization of services in some areas.
Some key sector issues have been, or are being, addressed. For example, cost recovery for a number of
government services, some movement towards leasing out of government farms, reductions in price controls, e.g.,
cold storage, increased private role in agricultural research, removal of dual pricing for sugarcane molasses, and
government involvement in rural markets.
Some key sector issues exhibit good progress, for example, moves towards increased participation, institutional
strengthening and capacity building, decentralization, and in sericulture removal of monopoly procurement of
cocoons to encourage entry of private trade.
The Policy Reform Matrix at Annex 2, Attachment 1 outlines GOUP's strategy, as confirmed in the policy letter of
February 17, 1998 including reforms recently completed and those still to be undertaken in association with the
project.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Briefly, the main project specific issues that will be addressed are in four main areas:
(a)    Policy reforms. improved cost recovery and increased privatization of services: The project would
link investments to the reform of policy and the legislative/regulatory framework to rationalize the
public/private roles. The project aims for improvements in quality as well as investment in
agriculture. This would be achieved through phasing out of government involvement in supply of
input materials and ensuring cost recovery from selected support services provided by public
institutions. This would not only enhance financial sustainability but, more importantly,
encourage increased private sector participation.
(b)    Technology development and dissemination aimed at intensification and diversification of farming
systems: The project addresses fundamental constraints such as the weak technology base,
inadequate support to dissemination of improved production practices, especially to resource poor
farmners and post-harvest technologies, skill shortages, policy and institutional constraints to
private sector participation and limitations in supporting infrastructure.
(c)    Greater participation of user communities: The project places a major emphasis on formation of
self-help groups, particularly those formed by women, farmer associations and commodity groups
'Source: World Bank reports.



Project Appraisal Document                                    U.P Diversified Agricultural Support Project
INDIA                                                                                    Page 4
to share production and marketing knowledge as well as mobilize credit. NGOs and the private
sector would play an important role in the formation of these groups.
(d)    Human resource development: The project would provide self-employment through training of
para-vets and of workers involved at various levels in the horticulture livestock, agriculture and
sericulture sub-sectors. Line department staff would be trained and re-deployed to promote
knowledge based participatory approaches to dissemination. Training and communication
capacity at state and district levels would be improved by the project.
The main strategic choices are discussed in more detail in Section Dl. They include:
*  breadth and depth of policy content--where the choice has been to focus on policies directly
impacting on project components;
*  the degree of privatization--where the choice has been for some significant initial steps in a
number of areas and a long term objective of phasing out of public services that could be
better supplied by the private sector but in the short term a continued substantial public input
to ensure a focus on the poverty objective;
*  the scale of the project--where the choice has been for a compromise between the enormous
scale of the poverty challenge and the implementation capacity, balanced also with the need to
test out new interventions in selected areas before wider replication;
*  the number and type of individual components--where economics, component implementation
capacity, and private sector alternatives as well as project complexity all played a part in
narrowing down the number of components to the final set.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
.~~~~~~~~~~~~Citig  '  (z ii M
Supportfor Technology Development:  Technology         17.1          1 1      14.0       11
(a) enhanced capacity for research  Development
coordination; (b) establishment of a
competitive agricultural research
program (CARP) to support time bound
adaptive research on priority
constraints, to increase productivity of
the smallholder agriculture; and (c)
strengthening of research support for
Technology Dissemination activities.



Project Appraisal Document                                              U.P Diversified Agricultural Support Project
INDIA                                                                                                   Page 5
Establishment of a Demand Driven          Technology            55.3            34       43.2          33
Technology Dissemination System          Dissemination
through: (a) rationalization,
reorientation and strengthening of line
departments to service a demand driven
system; (b) increased participation by
the private sector in input supply and
support services; (c) increased
participation by the farming
communities mobilized with the help of
NGOs; and (d) support for human
resource development and greater use of
inforrnation technology in technology
dissemination.
Supportfor i..................e...o....i......................  ..........   ....................... ....  ........     ................................................. ............. ..................
Support for Increased Pr-ivate Sector     Private Sector          4.1            3        4.0           3
Involvement and Public/Private
Partnerships in Agri-business
Development through: (a) credit
mobilization and facilitation; and (b)
provision for establishment of Project
Development Facility to mobilize
private sector initiatives aLnd promote
vertical integration of smallholder
agriculture with private investment in
input supply and post-harvest value
addition initiatives including agro-
processing.
Support for Rural Infrastructure          Infrastructure         67.5           42         54.3        42
Development through: (a) improvement
of up to 1,600 km of rural roads in the
project districts; and (b) improvement of
up to 145 rural markets (Haat Painths),
14 cattle markets owned by
Panchayats/Zilla Parishads and
rehabilitation/establishment of two
model fruits and vegetable markets
under Mandi Parishad in project
districts; and (c) support :for Directorate
for Agricultural Marketing to improve
its market information collection and
dissemination systems to benefit
marketing activities of producers.



Project Appraisal Document                                  U.P Diversified Agricultural Support Project
INDIA                                                                                  Page 6
Support for Project Management and   Management       15.5         10       13.4       10
Enhanced Capacity for Economuc
Policy Analysis through support for:
(a) Project Steering, Management and
District level committees to ensure
effective oversight, policy guidance
and management of the project; (b) a
unit to coordinate day-to-day
implementation of project activities; (c)
an independent M&E arrangement; and
(d) an Economic Policy Analysis Unit
to assist the APC branch in analyzing
agricultural policies and public
expenditures.
Project Preparation Facility      Preparation          1.0          1        1.0         1
Total     160.5       100      129.9        100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
As part of its commitment to accelerate growth of the agriculture sector in the state, GOUP has accorded high
priority to the development and diversification of agriculture in its Ninth Five Year Plan (1998-2002).
Agricultural growth directly affects poverty reduction, which is the main goal of the state's developmental efforts.
Apart from ongoing investments in the sector, a number of important rural policy reforms have been introduced
during the period of project preparation to provide for an appropriate policy and institutional framework for the
sector. A number of reforms remain to be carried out. A policy matrix in Annex 2 Attachment I sets out the
current status. Briefly, reforms already implemented and/or initiated include:
*     Encouragement to the private sector participation in technology development and transfer
through: phased withdrawal of the government from certified seed production; and, introduction
of para-veterinarians who would charge beneficiaries for their services.
*     Changes in the legal and regulatory environmentfor increased involvement ofprivate sector in
production, marketing and processing of agricultural produce through: elimination of price
ceilings for cold stores; elimination of price controls on sugarcane molasses; allowing case-by-
case permission to purchase/lease land for industrial purposes in excess of ceiling limits;
relaxation of licensing requirements for horticulture nurseries; elimination of government
monopoly purchase of cocoons to encourage greater private sector participation and competition to
benefit sericulture producers; simplified procedures for cutting and transporting trees in order to
facilitate replanting of aging orchards; raising stamp duty exemption limits and collateral limits
for bank loans to improve access of the poor to credit.
*     Greater community participation through: completion of elections to Panchayat Raj institutions;
completion of work by two government appointed commissions to recommend ways in which
greater administrative and financial authorities can be devolved to Panchayats; and, devolution of
greater administrative authority in the design and implementation of development programs to
communities by 21 departments including the Departments of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry,



Project Appraisal Document                                  U.P Diversified Agricultural Support Project
INDIA                                                                                  Page 7
Dairy Development, Rural Development, Panchayat Raj and Minor Irrigation whereby district
department officers would work under the functional control of district Panchayats.
To further strengthen the policy and institutional framework within which agriculture can grow, GOUP has agreed
to carry out a number of time bound policy actions during the course of the project period. These actions were
confirmed in an agricultural development policy letter sent to the Bank by GOUP and are outlined in Annex 2,
Attachment 1. Specific actions include:
*     phasing in full cost recovery for identified goods and services provided by the Departments of
Agriculture, Horticulture, Animal Husbandry and Sericulture;
*     leasing and/or privatization of loss making state owned farms;
*     participation by farmer groups in technology dissemination activities;
*     agreement with Panchayats to dedicate fees collected from users of village markets (Haat Paiths)
for operation and maintenance.;
*     completing elections to regulated market committees;
*     enacting of UP Silk Industry Development Act;
*     developing a rural roads maintenance policy.
3. Benefits and target population:
The main benefits of the project would be accelerated agricultural growth and increased opportunity for rural
employment leading to poverty reduction, sustainable management of land and water resources, and capacity
building. Growth is expected to be enhanced by improved technology and policy environment as well as
supporting investment programs in rural infrastructure. Poverty would be addressed mainly through raising farm
family incomes and reducing risk by offering a larger menu of alternative technologies to a broad cross-section of
the farming community and through increased local participation and employment opportunities. Sustainability
would be enhanced through the improved plant nutrient and pest management practices. Capacity to manage a
more diversified agriculture would be developed through the training programs at all levels as well as
improvement in institutional capacity to manage these programs. The project would provide an enabling
infrastructure and policies resulting in greater incentives for farm families to benefit from an expanded technology
menu. In addition, consumers, who are starting to demand a wider range of products, would also benefit from
improved productivity of a diverse range of commodities. Farm models suggest that adopters of the main
technologies would about double farm incomes while reducing worst year outcomes due to diversification.
Beneficiaries would be expected to include the full range of rural income levels but would have bigger impact on
a substantial percentage of resource-poor small or marginal farmer who can utilize the land-based, but limited
land-using, technologies such as silkworm production and processing, small ruminants, cow and buffalo milk
production, and fruit tree cultivation on plot boundaries or in home gardens. Women are likely to represent about
60 percent of the beneficiaries given the expectation of significant adoption of livestock and sericulture activities
which are largely managed by them. Children would also benefit, in a small way initially, but more broadly in the
longer term, from improved family income and a more pro-active approach to preventing child labor becoming an
issue during the production and reeling phases in sericulture. Annex 1 gives selected project performance
indicators.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Executing agencies: Overall responsibility for project execution would be with the Agriculture Production
Commissioner (APC) Branch of GOUP. The APC, who is a senior official of GOUP, would oversee activities of
all important line agencies involved in the project, including the Departmnent of Sericulture (DOS) (transferred to
the APC branch in 1996 to facilitate coordination of sericulture activities of the project). The only exception in
this regard would the Public Works Department (PWD) who would oversee implementation of the rural roads sub-
component.



Project Appraisal Document                                     U.P Diversified Agricultural Support Project
INDIA                                                                                      Page 8
Project oversight (policy guidance, etc.) and Implementation: GOUP would establish three committees, two at the
state level and one at district level, to provide policy guidance and to oversee project implementation. The first
would be the Project Steering Committee (PSC). PSC would be headed by the Chief Secretary of the state, with
other senior secretaries and three non-officials, representing farmers organizations, NGOs and the private sector,
as its members. PSC would provide policy guidance and maintain oversight on the project. The second, Project
Management Committee (PMC), with the APC as the chairperson and Secretaries of the participating line
departments as members, would have overall responsibility for the management of the project. PMC would
approve annual work plans, address all implementation issues including resolving of inter-departmental conflicts.
The third, the District Project Implementation Committee (DPIC) would operate at district/block level with the
District Magistrate as chairperson and district level heads of other operational departments participating as
members. The DPIC would also have representation from local govemment, NGOs, farners organizations and the
private sector. DPIC would assist in the preparation of district plans and oversee their implementation.
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU), established in March, 1996 to facilitate project preparation, would
coordinate the project activities to be implemented by the line departments and other participating agencies. The
Project Coordinator of PCU would be a full-time officer at the level of Secretary to GOUP. He would also be the
Secretary Coordination, a position created in the office of APC to ensure effective planning and coordination of
project activities, especially by the line departments in the APC branch. PCU would serve as the operating arm of
the APC branch and provide secretariat to the PSC. Technical experts and managerial persons as well as support
staff would be seconded from line departments, universities/institutes or be on contract for a specified duration
with their salaries being funded from the project on a declining basis. No permnanent positions would be created.
As a registered society, it would have a semi-autonomous status, with flexibility in administrative and financial
procedures.
In addition to providing technical and administrative support to the implementing agencies, other responsibilities
of PCU would include: (i) reviewing the agricultural policy and strategy of the State with respect to goals of the
project; (ii) assisting the line departments/participating agencies in preparing annual action plans, investment plans
and budgets for each fiscal year; (iii) monitoring progress of project components, preparing quarterly progress
reports, evaluating performance, and providing feedback to the line departments/participating agencies; (iv)
coordination and liaisons with line departments, participating agencies, GOUP, GOI, World Bank, credit and
financial institutions, training institutions, academic institutions, NGOs, farmer/producer groups and the private
sector; (v) ensuring financial reports are available, audited and submitted to the World Bank within six months of
the close of the fiscal year; (vi) organizing conferences, seminars, workshops and training courses as needed under
the project; (vii) hiring and retaining experts and consultants for project implementation, training, monitoring,
technical examination and evaluation; (viii) commissioning relevant studies; (ix) assisting in identifying
appropriate training courses for the line departrnent's staff, NGOs, farmer's groups and entrepreneurs; and (x) if
required, organizing necessary preparation work for a follow-on project.
Within each of the concerned line departments (agriculture, horticulture, etc.) separate Project Implementation
Units (PIUs) would be set up by redeploying and/or upgrading existing staff to ensure timely and effective
implementation of project activities. Although implementation of components would be assigned to these line
departments, the PCU and DPCC would have an essential role in coordinating activities at the local level,
especially with respect to the formation of Farmers' Interest Groups (FIGs), including self-help groups (SHGs) and
commodity organizations/associations (COs/CAs), with the help of NGOs. PWD has a core of experienced
engineers to survey, design and plan the execution of the rural roads component through contractors. To ensure
good construction quality and operation and maintenance of project roads, technical audit would be undertaken by
independent consultants.
Implementation of the Marketing Component would involve three different departments. Staff from the
Department of Agriculture Marketing (DOAM) would provide technical and managerial back-stopping to
implementation by the Village Panchayats and the Mandi Parishads, arrange training and prepare progress reports.



Project Appraisal Document                                  U.P Diversified Agricultural Support Project
INDIA                                                                                  Page 9
Directorate Panchayaati Raj would be responsible for ensuring rehabilitation/expansion of village markets (Haat
Painths). Improvements of cattle markets and model fruit and vegetable markets would involve Zilla Parishads
and the Mandi Board respectively.
At the district level, implementation of the Technology Dissemination Component would be the responsibility of a
district technology team cojmprising of technical personnel from all the participating line departrnents, KVKs and
concerned SAU and participating NGOs. In each district the team would meet regularly and take responsibility for
the preparation of a strategic extension plan (SEP). The preparation of the SEP will be based on information
collected using a participatory rural appraisal (PRA) and a gap analysis (GA) process. SEP would be the basis for
developing an annual work plan (AWP) for technology dissemination activities in each district. Training of
trainers in PRA techniques will be arranged by the PCU who would in turn train the field level workers. The
National Agriculture Extension Management Institute (MANAGE) would help in training of trainers as well as in
the preparation of SEPs for the first five districts. In addition, PCU would closely liaise with the Bank-assisted
National Agricultural Technology Project (NATP) where similar approaches to technology dissemination are
being tested.
The decentralized management structure would ensure that most of the decisions, especially for the Technology
Dissemination component, are taken at the district level. At the same time, making farmers full partners through
their organizations/groups would ensure that the project caters to needs of all the socio-economic groups, including
women. Although use of participatory methodologies, NGO participation and farmer involvement in decision
making processes is currently not emphasized by the GOUP line departments, use of participatory approaches
under an on-going IDA assisted project in the state (UP Sodic Lands Reclamation Project) has been highly
successful, providing a number of important lessons for this project. Accordingly, the project design places
considerable importance on participation, including involvement of NGOs and on skill enhancement of line
department staff in participatory methodologies to ensure success.
Annual Action Plans for the project would indicate activities for all the line departments, including
demonstrations, organization of field days, meetings of FIGs, etc. The action plan would be shared with and
agreed upon by all extension workers, NGOs and leaders of farmer groups. It would then be approved by the
district technology team under the chairmanship of the District Magistrate. The formation of farmer interest
groups and commodity associations would be undertaken by NGOs. The Economic Policy Analysis Unit (EPAU),
to be established under the project, would operate from the PCU and would advise the APC on future policy
directions to address the changing needs of the agricultural sector. The initial focus of its work program, however,
would be to assess the impact of the project's policy reform program.
At negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a)    The Project Co-ordinator, DASP would also be the Secretary, Co-ordination, APC Branch for the
duration of the Project.
(b)    By December 31 each year starting in 1998 PCU wouldfurnish an annual training plan
satisfactory to IDA/Bank.
(c)    By December 31,1998 GOUP, in consultation with the Association and the Bank, would engage an
experienced procurement officer.
Accounting, Financial Reporting andAuditing Arrangements:
OveralL PCU would have responsibility for project accounting under the leadership of a Project Coordinator (PC).
PC would have full-time accounting staff familiar with double-entry book-keeping. A separate Project Account
would be maintained, which, together with supporting documentation including those relating to contributions



Project Appraisal Document                                  U.P Diversified Agricultural Support Project
INDIA                                                                                  Page 10
from GOUP and IDA/Bank, would provide a comprehensive record of project financing and expenditure. The
system would facilitate effective monitoring of progress and generate accounting data on category-wise and
component-wise expenditures. It would also facilitate generation of a report comparing physical progress with
costs incurred under the project.
The following information would be available from the accounting documents: (i) actual expenditures under the
project against budgeted expenditures for the current year and cumulative to enable compilation of financial
reports; (ii) procurement method adopted for goods, materials and services to enable monitoring of limits of
procurement laid down in the procurement schedule; and (iii) contract-wise expenditures according to categories
and sub-categories to enable generation of the schedule of withdrawal of proceeds (Form IB) and Statement of
Expenditures (SOE) (Form IC) required for submission to the Bank for withdrawal of Credit/Loan. Detailed
documentation for SOE submission would be maintained either at PCU or the Project Implementing Units (PIUs)
depending on the component, and would be made available to IDA/Bank for review upon request.
Accounting and InternalAudit Organization. The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) would be a senior officer from
State Finance and Account Services. The CFO would report to the PC and would be supported by a Finance
Manager who would also be a qualified CA. Around four support staff (Finance & Accounts Officers and
Accountants) would be required, in addition to a cashier.
The project would have three internal auditors. Working closely with the auditors of PIUs, the internal auditors
would assess the adequacy of internal controls in PIUs and identify actions for an effective internal control system.
The team would be headed by a Chief Internal Auditor (CIA) with appropriate experience and would be assisted
by two professionals. To ensure independence in the work, the CIA would report directly to the PD.
Accounting and Reporting System. Work is progressing to establish in the PCU a computerized double-entry
accounting system, along with the related budgeting and financial management system. Most expenditures will be
incurred at the PCU and PIU levels. Accounting at DPCU level will only require a columnar cash book with
appropriate accounting heads. This will form the basis for transaction accounting for DPCUs to be maintained
centrally at PCU. Computer-literate accounting staff will be recruited in these units.
A budgeting system interlinked with the accounting system for financial reporting will also be developed with a
quarterly reporting system. This would be the trigger mechanism for further releases of funds from PCU to PIUs.
The government budget/finance heads are different from project expenditure heads. Government departments,
with PIUs, would continue to maintain project accounting as per government accounting procedures and controls
with an added requirement that a separate budget head with appropriate sub-heads would be created in their annual
budget document to capture all project related allocation and expenditure. A link chart correlating the project
expenditure heads with UP Finance Department (FD) budget heads has been finalized which would be
incorporated in the computerized financial accounting system to automatically generate information under the
appropriate budget heads for Finance Department reporting.
The project accounting system (double entry book-keeping in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles) would also generate information required for the quarterly Financial Management Reports under the
Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) - Financial Statements (1-A through 1-F) and Project Progress
Report. The Procurement Register maintained by PCU has also been modified to generate the required LACI
Procurement Management Reports (3-A through 3-D). PCU would prepare and submit to the Bank periodic
Project Implementation Report (quarterly for financial reporting), in a format agreed with the Bank. The report
would indicate both physical and financial progress of the project in relation to the agreed plan, compare physical
progress with costs incurred, duly explaining the reasons for variations and the remedial measures proposed to be
taken. The financial management system would also be capable of providing estimated final project costs (by
project components and expenditure categories), financing plan, estimated disbursement using appropriate foreign
exchange rates, and possible overrun/saving. This would be provided on a regular basis to Bank review missions.



Project Appraisal Document                                  U.P Diversified Agricultural Support Project
INDIA                                                                                  Page 11
Project Funds Flow. GOUP would make available adequate funds to PCU irrespective of releases from GOI. A
lump sum financial sanction would be made for the project in the GOUP budget based on a component-wise
budget proposal made by PCU.
The key elements of the fund flow arrangement from PCU to PIUs include: (i) maintenance of a separate bank
account and separate books of accounts for project-related transactions by PIUs; (ii) separation of documentation
(vouchers, records) related to project expenditure for easy access; and (iii) submission of quarterly statements of
expenditure by PIUs to PCU by the I 0th of the month following each quarter.
Audit Requirement. The Project Account and the Special Account (SA) would be subjected to normal state
govermnent and GOI accounting procedures and controls. Project financial statements would be audited annually
in accordance with standards acceptable to the Bank. In the case of PIUs of the line departments and other
participating government agencies, this would be undertaken by the Auditor General (AG). Accounts of PCU,
DPCUs and for other non-governmental participating agencies audit would be undertaken by independent auditors.
The audit of the project accounts would also include an assessment of the adequacy of accounting and internal
control systems, ability to maintain adequate documentation for transactions, and eligibility of expenditures for
Bank financing. The consolidated Project Account audited by the AG, including a summary of SOE
disbursements and the AG's opinion on it, would be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the close
of each fiscal year.
At negotiations assurances were obtained that by December 31, 1998, GOUP with assistance fromfinancial
management consultants, would prepare a manualfor accounting, auditing and internalfinancial control
practices acceptable to ID)A/Bank and, thereafter, put into effect a training program on such practices for all
participating institutions responsible for implementing the project.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
No overall alternative project was contemplated since it was clear that in such a large state with so much rural
poverty some form of rural development project was justified. The choices were more related to what combination
of investments and policies should be included. Broad alternatives considered were:
(a)    whether the project would address the enabling policy environment across a wide range or focus
on policies directly impacting on the identified investment areas, or some intermediate
combination. The choice of strategy here has been to address policies that directly impact on
project components, particularly on improved cost recovery;
(b)   the degree of privatization to pursue. The choice here has been to support privatization or public-
private partnerships in areas such as veterinary services, horticulture nurseries, etc., however, in
order to support the poverty objective, to move towards privatization of extension services
circumspectly, laying the groundwork for further privatization in due course by focusing on cost
recovery;
(c)   the extent to which the big sugar policy issues should be tackled head on. The choice has been to
keep the end goal in mind but to move modestly, and in a phased manner, in terms of policy
action for three reasons: first, because sugar is not only a state issue, it is a national issue; second,
because on mechanisms for pricing on sugar content, further technical work is needed; and, third,
because sugar is particularly sensitive politically;



Project Appraisal Document                                     U.P Diversified Agricultural Support Project
INDIA                                                                                      Page 12
(d)   the extent to which to cover on the investment side the big commodities such as wheat and rice.
The decision here was to focus predominantly on providing farmers with a wider diversification
menu as the existing on-going state and national programns continue on wheat and rice. For these
commodities the project would provide additional selective support in key areas related to the
main project objectives, particularly in the areas of sustainability of productivity, e.g. nutrient
management and integrated pest management;
(e)   the scale of the project in terms of districts/blocks tackled. The choice here has been to focus on a
selected number of districts/blocks, enlarging project coverage in a phased manner;
(f)   the project length. Because of concerns about implementation capacity, a longer 7 year project
was considered but rejected on the grounds that it would be better to cut the project period to 5
years with the agreed intention of preparing a follow-on second phase projects if the first phase is
judged to be successful;
(g)    a number of individual alternative components were studied in considerable depth and rejected, or
substantially changed, following analysis, these included:
(i)    aquaculture - dropped due to doubts about economics;
(ii)   support for the Institute of Biological Products - dropped for want of firm decision on joint
venture management;
(iii)   Animal Husbandry Department HQ building - substantially changed - as it would have
drawn away investment from more pressing needs;
(iv)   Angora Rabbit Rearing dropped - doubts about profitability for sufficient number of
beneficiaries given technical and institutional constraints;
(v)    sericulture proposal reduced to one quarter its original size due to a number of potential
constraints;
(vi)  research proposal originally called for direct funding to SAUs and zonal stations, this was
redirected towards the CARP which would provide access to research funds on a
competitive basis to wider range of actors including the private sector;
(vii)  much larger dairy investments were earlier proposed but following deregulation it was felt
that much of this investment could now be made by the private sector, the dairy-related
support now focuses on the hygiene and milk collection constraints from small and
isolated operators; and
(viii)  a number of other proposals related to education facilities were reviewed but not picked
up, it was felt that these would excessively complicate the design and would be better
addressed under a separate project. This also applies to major institutional and investment
needs of the irrigation and drainage management which were initially examined but given
the complexity were dropped to be addressed through separate interventions.



Project Appraisal Document                                              U.P Diversified Agricultural Support Project
INDIA                                                                                                   Page 13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
Implementation Development
Progress (IP)      Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed
The objectives of the project are to develop    Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands      Satisfactory      Satisfactory
models for environmental protection and improve   Reclamation Project (Credit
agricultural production through reclamation of  2510-IN)
sodic lands. This would be supported by
strengthening local institutions, management,
beneficiary participation and NGO support. This
is to contribute towards poverty alleviation of
families managing sodic lands. This has been a
very successful project, widely visited and praised
for its innovative approaches and excellent
management.
.............................. ...................................................................    ................................................................  ...................................................
The project's objectives are to improve the     Tamil Nadu Agricultural        Satisfactory      Satisfactory
capacity of the Government of Tamil Nadu to     Development Project
analyze development constraints and establish   (Credit 2215-IN)
priorities, enable institutions to render cost-
effective services to farmers, support selected
priority state investment programs in agriculture
and rural development and support the
participation of NGOs. The focus of the project
was in agriculture, seed procluction, integrated
watershed development, livestock development,
forestry development, rural roads and rural water
supply.,
Objectives of the project to accelerate the growth    Rajasthan Agicultral     Satisfactory      Satisfactory
of agriculture through improved technical,      Development Project
financial, and economic use of resources, enhance
sustainability of the available resource base and
enhance equity. Project investments are in crop
husbandry, horticulture, animal husbandry, water
resources, agricultural research and training, rural
roads, project coordination and environmental
strengthening. It strives for policy reforms in cost
recovery, reduced input subsidies, improved and
efficient water use, institutional reforms of
cooperatives, removing constraints to private
sector in agriculture and strengthening
Govermment of Rajasthan's capacity in
environmental protection.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The main lessons from the above projects have been: (i) a practical balance must be achieved between integration
to exploit complementari-ties on the one hand and manageability on the other; (ii) there are significant political
limitations to achieving comprehensive policy changes, particularly where policy change may be seen to impact on



Project Appraisal Document                                  U.P Diversified Agricultural Support Project
INDIA                                                                                  Page 14
the poor, which can only be addressed by agreeing with the borrower the longer term target but specifying the
achievable intermediate steps that would fall within the project period; (iii) flexibility in implementation may have
a high pay-off therefore this should be an integral part of the project design (e.g. the excellent UP Sodic Lands
Project has developed a number of supporting activities that were enabled during implementation); (iv) good
institutional arrangements and good quality managers can have a huge impact on project performance, and (v)
project start-up in India continues to be slow and subject to unexpected hurdles, therefore first and second year
progress and disbursement projections should be modest and preparation for procurement should be as far
advanced as possible before Board presentation.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
In spite of changes of government over the preparation period, GOUP has consistently indicated strong
commitment in the following ways: (i) a PCU and a team handling preparation of the project was established
which has now been given responsibility for project implementation and in recent months has facilitated
completion of pre-project activities; (ii) a number of institutional changes have been introduced to facilitate project
coordination/implementation, e.g., creation of a post of Secretary Coordination as a concurrent charge for the
Project Coordinator, transfer of DOS to the APC Branch; (iii) a substantial number of policy changes over the last
two to three years (see Policy Matrix Annex 2, Attachment 1) have been introduced which provide an improved
environment for project implementation; (iv) an agriculture sector fiscal sustainability study has been completed
with an agreement to move towards full cost recovery of many services over the next three to four years (see
Annex 2, Attachment 1).
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Value added of Bank support:
The main value of Bank support falls in the following areas:
(a)    wide international and Indian experience in helping central/state/local governments improve,
diversify and reform the agricultural extension and research systems as well as facilitating
linkages with international centers of excellence;
(b)    a large portfolio of projects in India and as a result a good understanding of issues affecting the
efficiency and effectiveness of the public/private provision of services;
(c)    a highly successful and innovative agriculture project in the same state, the UP Sodic Lands
Reclamation Project, which addresses many of the local community level issues in agriculture and
which has served as a model in the design of this project;
(d)   the only lender/donor large enough to tackle the short, medium and long term management reform
and sectoral sustainability issues in a comprehensive and coordinated manner which is essential to
make a difference in such a large state as UP; and
(e)    a commitment to, and continuing catalytic role in, analyzing and addressing difficult issues in a
number of policy areas affecting the sector.



Project Appraisal Document                                  U.P Diversified Agricultural Support Project
INDIA                                                                                  Page 15
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic Assessment (supported by Annex 4):
[x] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ 125 million; ERR= 22% []Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
Annex 4 gives the Economic Analysis for the project and is backed up by detailed tables in the Project
Implementation Plan and in the Project File. There are rather few direct and readily demonstrable relationships
between project interventions and incremental benefits in a project of this type since most technology gains are
expected to emerge through fairly new participatory processes whose rate of impact is very difficult to predict
(although there is some very positive experience from the UP Sodic Lands Reclamation Project). Therefore the
ERRs should be taken as only indicative. The overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) is estimated at 22 percent.
To the extent that component ERRs are relevant within a very integrated project design individual component
ERRs are: Livestock 26 percent; Horticulture/Agriculture 49 percent (these were combined within a farm system
analysis); Sericulture 17 percent; Rural Roads 14 percent. Sericulture and Roads exhibit rather low and sensitive
ERRs. In the case of sericulture, it is argued that this is almost inevitable in a new industry and that given the
potential very large impact on employment and poverty from the development of a sericulture industry in UP
especially for the landless it is still a very worthwhile investment for the long term. In the case of roads, the
analysis does not attribute benefits of reduced crop losses to the roads component itself since it is argued that these
are covered under the agriculture and horticulture models. With roads plus agriculture and horticulture combined
the ERR would be fully satisfactory. The high ERR for agriculture/horticulture can be attributed to the following:
(i) the generally found hilgh returns to technology development; (ii) the large scale of UP agriculture and the
limited number of zones, giving a huge 'market' for improved technologies; (iii) the fact that the enabling roads
and market infrastructure have not been attributed as costs to the component; and (iv) the fact that most of the
other enabling investments such as the participatory/NGO and technology development investments are not
attributed to the component since they impact across all components.
Methodology for the ERR analysis used was fairly standard. On farm costs and benefits were modeled, those
direct overhead project costs that were considered directly be allocated to individual components were then
deducted to give the component ERRs and those overhead project costs that were difficult to allocate to individual
components were deducted in the overall ERR calculation. Particular care was taken not to double count benefits,
for example, no separate benefits were claimed for the marketing investments, these were assumed to show up in
the overall agriculture/horticulture analysis, although market analyses were undertaken that suggested that the
returns from village market improvement were good. Also, no marketing loss savings were attributed to the roads
component or the market improvement component since these were assumed to be covered by the agriculture and
horticulture analysis.
The overall project ERR is not very sensitive to changes in parameters in any one component, as is usual in multi-
component projects. The most noteworthy areas for sensitivity are the following:
(a)    with sericulture benefits down by 10 percent the ERR drops to 10 percent, if costs go up 10
percent the ERR drops to 11 percent, (but see the rationale above for accepting a modest ERR at
this stage);
(b)    with roads costs up 10 percent the ERR drops to 12 percent; and
(c)    delaying the benefit stream by two years, representing a slow start-up, perhaps the most realistic
risk scenario, reduces the ERR to 16 percent.
An unusually large number of alternative investments were reviewed and rejected during the preparation exercise -
see Section DI of this PAD. A number of related economic questions have been addressed in the relevant sections
of the PAD and in Annex 4. These are not repeated here except for the rationale for public investment.



Project Appraisal Document                                     UP Diversified Agricultural Support Project
INDIA                                                                                     Page 16
The rationale for public investment is partly related to the fact that the project represents a substantial move
towards private investment either directly or indirectly. For example the project includes a Project Development
Facility to facilitate implementation of private sector investment proposals in value addition activities; the use of
para-vets and private vets; private contractors for Al inputs, including supply of liquid Nitrogen; increased cost
recovery across a wide range of government services; support for improvements in private horticultural nurseries;
leasing, and possibly sale, of government farms; access to funding under CARP for research; deregulation of
monopoly procurement of cocoons.
Rationale for the remaining areas of public investment are: the need for infrastructure to support other
developments; technology development and dissemination to focus on needs of the poor; the externalities related
to environmental sustainability and related investments which would not, at this stage, find private sector interest;
the need for community participation investments to increase beneficiaries role in the development process; and,
finally, that this is a capacity-building transition phase leading to further privatization in the future.
2. Financial:
Farm models indicate that the financial returns to projected investments at the farm level are generally good.
Income increases are expected to come from yield gains from improved technologies, frequently an improved crop
cultivar or an improved livestock breed or crossbreed, and from farm enterprise diversification. Rates of return for
representative models are adequate and sufficient to give confidence in farmer adoption in a low income high risk
situation. Again, good experience has emerged from the UP Sodic Lands Project where quite rapid adoption has
taken place even with beneficiaries with very low incomes.
Farm models suggest the following: typical farm enterprise income increases from single crop technology
adoptions in the region of 25 percent to 30 percent could be expected; typical whole farm income increases from
adoption of diversification packages in the region of 100 percent by the end of a ten year period could be expected
giving IRRs of about 45 percent (high, but close to a minimum needed in a high risk low income environment). In
marginal farm situations (0.4 ha farms) incomes could rise with adoption of technologies and limited
diversification from about US$4 per day equivalent to about US$8 per day.
Fiscal impact
Overview ofAgriculture Expenditures
Size and Trends in Agricultural Expenditures. Agriculture and allied activities (as defined in government budgets
include crop husbandry, soil and water conservation, animal husbandry, dairy development, fisheries, agricultural
research, education, and sericulture) account for about four percent of GOUP's total public expenditures, with no
clear upward or downward trend in this share since 1989/90. Irrigation accounts for another 7 percent of public
expenditures, although in this case a perceptible decrease in investment has occurred from 10.5 percent in 1989/90
to 6.7 percent in 1995/96. In sum, total GOUP spending on agriculture, broadly defined to include allied activities
and irrigation, is currently about 10 percent to 11 percent of total public spending. This is equivalent to about 2.5
percent of SDP.
Composition of Agricultural Expenditures. More than the shrinking size, the changing composition of
agricultural public expenditures is a cause for concem. Presently less than 10 percent of public expenditures in
agriculture and allied activities are of a capital nature -- a situation largely unchanged since 1989/90. Of more
concern are trends in irrigation where the share of capital expenditures in total expenditures have consistently
fallen from 36 percent in 1989/90 to 26 percent in 1995/96. GOUP is aware of this trend and aims to try to correct
it.



Project Appraisal Document                                  U.P Diversified Agricultural Support Project
INDIA                                                                                  Page 17
Project Impact on Budget
GOUP's contribution during the project period will peak at about Rs. 500 million per year in the first and second
years and decline thereafter with post project operating costs expected to be around Rs 100 million and declining.
With a state agriculture and allied activities budget of about Rs. 9000 million, the peak contribution by GOUP
would be about five percent of the sector budget falling to about one percent. GOUP considers these levels
manageable. In fact, increased cost recovery agreed under the project (see below) would more than cover the post-
project operating costs and trends towards privatization of technology dissemination initiated under the project
would make increasing contributions.
Project Contribution to Fiscal Correction
Cost Recovery in Publicly Provided Inputs and Services. The proposed project seeks to address the imbalance in
costs and their recovery in agriculture and allied activities (irrigation is outside the ambit of the project). As part
of agreements reached with GOUP, full cost recovery will be phased in by March 31, 2002 for a number of
subsidized inputs and services currently being provided by the Departments of Animal Husbandry, Horticulture,
Agriculture and Sericulture (see Annex 2, Attachment 1). These subsidies, apart from limiting private sector
participation, also contribute to fiscal pressures in the state. As a result of the agreed cost recovery measures, at
1996/97 prices and quantities supplied, GOUP stands to gain about Rs 56 million in 2000/01, Rs 85 million in
2001/02, and Rs 100 million annually from 2002/03 (Table 1). The largest savings are in the livestock sector
where from 2002/03 onwards the Department of Animal Husbandry (DOAH) is projected to annually save about
Rs 82 million on subsidy expenditures currently incurred (equivalents to seven percent of its overall annual
expenditures in 1995/96). Projected annual savings post-2002/03 are more modest in the other sectors: DOA Rs.
12 million, DOH Rs 4 million and DOS Rs 1.7 million (equivalent to two percent of total expenditures). In
addition to the above, a Review of Fiscal Issues in Agriculture would be undertaken annually by EPAU
(see Annex 2, Attachment 9 for TOR).
The public extension service in agriculture, horticulture, animal husbandry and sericulture (areas being directly
addressed under the project) is severely handicapped by a lack of operational resources. Information compiled
from the proposed project districts shows that at the district, block and panchayat levels wages and salaries account
for about 95 percent of the total expenditure on extension in all four departments. This suggests that at current
levels and pattern of funding, the extension service would be unable to perform its function adequately. To create
both an effective and financially sustainable extension system, the project is proposing to adopt a participatory
planning approach which would not only increase farmer ownership of the system, but also provide opportunity of
transferring increasing responsibility for technology dissemination to farmer groups/associations. Thus, by re-
grouping and upgradation of skills of existing staff an opening would be created for greater participation by
farmners organization's as well as the private sector. In the long run, this approach to manpower deployment along
with full cost recovery of some of the services provided by the line department is expected to make significant
improvements in the financial sustainability of the system.
3. Technical:
The current technology development and dissemination work in UP is largely built around commodity specific
activities. This is in contrast to the farming systems approach being proposed under the project. Accordingly,
during the preparation period a careful review of available technologies was undertaken to identify appropriate
recommendations that could be utilized during the initial stages of the project. This work has resulted in
identification of some appropriate technologies for major components of production systems. At the same time
this work also pointed to many gaps that need to be filled. The cropping systems where most information was
available included rice-wheat, legumes and oil seeds. Systems where significant gaps were identified included
those incorporating horticultural crops, sericulture and livestock. In addition, location specific recommendations
on pest, land (including nutrient) and water management practices were also found to be weak. Therefore, the
technology development wvork to be supported under the project would emphasize a systems approach to location-



Project Appraisal Document                                  U.P Diversified Agricultural Support Project
INDIA                                                                                  Page 18
specific work by interdisciplinary teams. The project would mostly support applied and adaptive technology
development work aimed at improving productivity, stability and sustainability of major systems under different
agro-ecosystems. The project funding for this work would principally be for competitive peer reviewed research
proposal under the CARP. The creation of CARP and wide-ranging support for human resource development
would increase the effectiveness, focus, accountability and administration of agricultural research. In addition, it
would promote entry of other institutions outside the SAU system (general universities, foundations, NGOs,
Farmer Organizations and the private sector) to work jointly or independently on eco-regional problems. At the
same time with strengthening of UPCAR to promote and facilitate inter-institutional cooperation, access to new
technologies would be improved. This would be of particular importance in the case of rice-wheat cropping
systems where a consortium of national and international institutions is engaged in research dealing with yield
stagnation and factor productivity decline in countries of the Indo-Gangetic plains (India, Bangladesh, Nepal,
Pakistan). The specific research themes being supported by the consortium include: productivity trends, crop
establishment sustaining soil fertility, water management, ecological consequences and policy options. This work
and activities to be supported under the project are expected to result in increased availability of appropriate
technologies that suit the agroclimatic and socioeconomic situation of small farmers.
It must be emphasized, however, that this project would only be able to augment and strengthen on-going research
activities so that they can better provide the technological base for important production systems relevant to the
project areas. Given the complexity and size of U.P's agricultural research and education system, however, it
would not be possible to address the many institutional changes and broad support necessary for the long-term
health of the system. Such sweeping changes in a large state would need to await a possible free-standing
operation incorporating initial experience of the new approach being tested under this project as well as NATP. In
the case of technology dissemination, the most critical needs are to make the public service more demand driven
with increased accountability to its clients, upgrade human skills and enhance financial sustainability. The
strategy proposed under the project would be to seek greater involvement of farmers, NGOs and the private sector
in the technology development and dissemination process. The project's support for strengthening of research-
extension-farmer linkages and introduction of participatory methodologies would help to improve the relevance of
research and extension activities. In addition, the project includes support for human resource development at all
levels in the system.
Roads would be improved to 'functional standards' based on some pragmatic adjustment to the normal local
standard categories. This has been adopted to minimize land requirements. Formation width would be 6 meters
with carriage-way width 3 meters for Type A and 3.75 meters for Type B. Design Speed is 30 km ph. Further
detail on design is provided in the Project File. All proposed roads have been selected based on agreed screening
criteria including: population served, cultivated area, share of perishable crops and improvement in their value,
access to markets, existing traffic volumes, land acquisition or other adverse environmental considerations. The
road network in UP mostly serves very heavily populated areas. Densities of 1,000 persons per km of road are a
norm rather than an exception and densities may go as high as 25,000 persons per km.
4. Institutional:
a Executing agencies: In general, GOUP has a good record of implementing Bank-assisted projects. Two of the
most successful projects in the Indian portfolio (U.P. Sodic Lands Reclamation Project and Rural Water Supply
Project) are in U.P. Given this experience and the establishment of PMC for project management, (which would
have Secretaries as well as Directors of line departments as its members under the Chairmanship of the APC),
effective administrative as well as technical guidance for project implementation would be ensured. Many of the
line departments participating in the project have successfully executed externally aided projects in the past. A
number of actions, which in past have delayed project implementation, e.g., establishment of coordination unit,
staff re-deployment/recruitment, training in project management, procurement plans, etc., would be in place prior
to negotiations. In addition, to provide autonomy and operational flexibility, PCU has been registered as a society,
with APC as the Chairman of the Board of Governors. To encourage client focus and ability to respond to location
specific needs of farmers, a decentralized management structure has been proposed where most of the decisions,



Project Appraisal Document                                  U.P Diversified Agricultural Support Project
INDIA                                                                                  Page 19
especially for the Technology Dissemination component, would be taken at the district level. At the same time,
encouragement to farmers to become partners in project implementation through their organizations/groups would
ensure that the project caters to needs of all the socio-economic groups, including women. Although use of
participatory methodologies and farmer involvement in the decision making process is not widely practiced by
GOUP agencies, introduction of these approaches under another IDA assisted project in the state (UP Sodic Lands
Reclamation Project) has been highly successful providing a number of important lessons for this project. At the
same time, the project design places considerable importance on participation by NGOs and on skill enhancement
of line department staff to ensure success.
b. Project M&E and Performance Indicators. The operational responsibility for planning and coordinating
monitoring and evaluation activities would rest with PCU. In PCU, one senior officer would be given full-time
responsibility to oversee this activity. PCU would utilize Computerized Project Management techniques to
monitor progress and to link with monitoring activities within the individual participating line departments at the
state level as well as district offices. At the district level, wherever there are more than three DASP interventions,
PCU would be assisted by District Project Coordination Cells (DPCCs) to monitor district level activities.
Following the very good experience with M&E under the UP Sodic Lands Project, DASP would engage the Indian
Institute of Management Lucknow (IIML) as an independent agency to assist with the M&E work. IIML, based on
a Memorandum of Understanding reached with GOUP, has agreed to establish an Agricultural Management
Center (AMC), to undertake concurrent evaluation of the project. AMC would also offer support for the design
and implementation of the monitoring system to be operated by the PCU with input from the participating agencies
and assess impact of project components on the participants. Specialists in project management, statistics,
economics, sociology, financial management, information technology systems, policy analysis and agriculture
would constitute the core AMC team. The establishment of the AMC is part of a capacity building exercise being
undertaken by GOUP. In time, it is envisaged that the work program of AMC would expand to include M&E of
other GOUP programs (other than the DASP) in the agricultural sector.
AMC would work closely with PCU and assist: (a) the implementing agencies in preparing annual action plans,
along with an implementation schedule at the department and district levels using a Computerized Management
System (CPM); (b) in the development of a project management system (MIS); (c) in identifying training
needs/gaps and in the preparation of plans to meet these needs; (d) in concurrent evaluation and impact evaluation
studies, including beneficiary assessments, at agreed periodic intervals. NGOs assisting with implementation of
the project would also be involved with the M&E of community participation activities in the project. Annex 2,
Attachment 6 contains TOR for Participatory M&E. Institutional credit mobilization for land-based production
activities would be monitored by the Bankers Institute of Rural Development (BIRD), the training and monitoring
wing of the National Bank for Agricultural and Rural Development (NABARD). To facilitate this work, PCU
would be electronically linked to both NABARD as well as BIRD.
Information generated by the project implementing departments/agencies would be consolidated and analyzed by
the PCU and used to update the performance indicators for the project. Key development indicators are presented
in Annex 1. A number of departments have prepared supplemental performance indicators for more detailed
monitoring of individual components (Annex 1, Attachment 1). If necessary, these indicators would be further
refined and developed by the PCU and participating line departments during project implementation.
Field level implementation would be independently monitored by AMC, in consultation with PCU, by: (a)
selecting one block within each district for intensive monthly visits and monitoring; (b) rotating monthly visits
among the rest of the 3-4 participating blocks within each district.2 These visits would facilitate rapid
identification of shortcomings and problem areas and enable steering of the project to successfully meet its
development objectives.
2 Assuming, on average, the project covers 4-5 blocks per district.



Project Appraisal Document                                  UP Diversified Agricultural Support Project
INDIA                                                                                  Page 20
Data Collection and Management. Concerned implementing departments/agencies through DPIUs would assume
the primary responsibility for collecting data to update the performance indicators. The data would be
consolidated and managed by PCU using the computerized MIS. AMC would assist PCU in developing the
computerized plan and the MIS for the project including for participating departments/agencies.
For the concurrent evaluation and impact evaluation studies, AMC would be primarily responsible for data
collection and coordination, using independent surveys. Preparation of evaluation studies for different
components would be an ongoing process culminating in reviews of the project during implementation (see below)
and on project completion.
A baseline survey would be carried out by AMC/PCU in coordination with the line departments. The survey
would be completed and a draft report prepared by the end of the sixth month of effectiveness of the project.
Questionnaires and formats for this survey are under preparation. Resource requirements for various sample sizes
of blocks, villages, farmer groups, and farmers have been worked out and a decision on sample size to be adopted
will be made after pre-testing of questionnaires and taking account of statistical validation.
Reviews. The project would be subjected to two major reviews to be carried out jointly by GOUP and IDA/Bank.
The first one would be at 18 months and the second at 36 months after effectiveness of the project. The first
review would focus largely on implementation processes and recommend adjustments in the project design and/or
implementation arrangements to overcome bottlenecks. The second major review would be more comprehensive
and would include an impact assessment of the project.
Reporting Arrangements. PCU would submit to the Bank a six-monthly progress report and a comprehensive
annual report. The six-monthly reports would consist of: (a) up-to-date physical and financial expenditure data;
(b) updated project performance indicators; (c) successes and problems encountered during the reporting period
with possible remedial actions; (d) socio-economic as well environmental impacts of the project; (e) progress
against benchmarks in implementing policy reforms. The annual report would cover all quantitative and
qualitative aspects of implementation progress, including implementation plans for the following year.
AMC would submit brief monthly reports on implementation monitoring to the PCU and respective implementing
departments.
At negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a)    GOUP would monitor and evaluate, on an ongoing basis, achievement of project objectives using
performance indicators agreed with the Association and the Bank
(b)    By January 31 of each year, starting in 1999, the PCU would provide to IDA/Bank for review and
comments a copy of the Project's Annual Work Program for the followingfiscal year to be financed
under the project.
(c)    Starting December 31, 1998, six-monthly and annual reports would be submitted by PCU
synthesising overall project progress within thirty days of the end of the reporting period for IDA
Bank's review and comments.
(d)   (i) By December 31, 1999 and September 30, 2001, PCU would undertake two project
implementation reviews; and
(ii) by June 30, 2000 and March 31, 2001, in consultation with IDA/Bank, develop an action plan to
implement their recommendations.



Project Appraisal Document                                        U.P Diversified Agricultural Support Project
INDIA                                                                                           Page 21
5. Social: (See Annex 2, Attachment 5)
An important strategy of the project is to facilitate a change in the overall work culture of the public institutions
involved in agricultural research and extension to enable them to be more responsive to farmers' needs. The
intention is to build on the highly successful experience of the UP Sodic Lands Reclamation Project. Throughout
the project preparation phase there was a substantial focus on assessing social aspects which have significantly
influenced the project design. These included:
(a)    beneficiary assessment through informal, field-based interactions with a diverse range of farmers
in each of the five agro-ecological zones;
(b)    additional stakeholder analysis based on interaction with NGOs, private sector, implementation
agencies, research institutions and government officials;
(c)    collection of secondary data for all districts, and additional data from fuirther investigations in
selected districts to develop socio-economic profiles, in some cases geared to specific activities
(e.g. sericulture); and
(d)    informal surveys which influenced the dialogue with credit institutions to improve access to credit.
Arising from these assessments and the overall process of project design, the following are important elements
of the project:
(a)    to ensure a focus on disadvantaged communities, certain project activities (e.g. pig/small ruminant
production, sericulture, cow/ buffalo milk production) are self-targeting in nature as they require
little or no land and therefore do not exclude landless/ marginal farmers, and provide home-based
income earning opportunities to women;
(b)    a key role is envisaged for NGOs to facilitate the formation of farmer/ beneficiary interest groups
in order that groups formerly left out of the development process (e.g. women, scheduled castes)
may be specifically targeted by overcoming socio-cultural constraints (caste, gender) to the
dissemination of extension messages through conventional channels. Group action is also
expected to be important in relation to natural resource management activities. Annex 2,
Attachment 4 gives scope and selection criteria for NGOs;
(c)    decentralization of activities to growers or user-group associations is central to the approach,
including the development of district-based strategic extension plans tailored to local agro-
ecological conditions;
(d)    the project would work through Farmer Associations (FAs) at the Naya Panchayat level, and FA
representatives would contribute to the design and implementation of research and extension
programs;
(e)    NGOs would play a crucial role in identifying potential beneficiaries through participatory needs-
identification and priority setting exercises. NGOs would facilitate the formation of FAs, arrange
farmer and FA representative training, liaise with local lending institutions to secure
production/investment credit, extend technical and supervisory support along the lines of
recommended production practices, and organize production under contract farming agreements
between beneficiaries and intend processors/other enterprises; and
(f)    additionally, in horticulture and sericulture activities, village extension workers would be contract
workers (as opposed to government workers) from FAs or NGOs.



Project Appraisal Document                                  U.P Diversified Agricultural Support Project
Page 22
GOUP would ensure that NGOs contracted under the project would be selected according to the criteria agreed
with IDA/Bank; and by December 31, 1999 would appoint a suitably qualified agency to undertake an
independent assessment of the participatory management process adopted under the project and no later than
June 30, 2000 agree with IDA/Bank on an action plan to implement its recommendations.
Child labor. Silk production in UP is a relatively new activity and is confined to selected districts where at
present, there is no child labor. Unlike more established silk producing states of India, where child labor has
become a problem during the reeling stage, climatic conditions in UP favor the production of higher quality
bivoltine and multi-voltine cocoons which are better suited to types of equipment that do not provide
opportunities for child labor. The project provides support to prevent the emergence of child labor in reeling as
the industry takes off in UP. It is possible that some child labor may occur in the pre-cocoon stages of
production as a part of family agriculture work. Child labor is quite common in the weaving industry in Uttar
Pradesh which lies outside the scope of this project. The issue of child labor in weaving is being addressed by
GOUP with help from UNICEF. The legal framework for safeguarding against the exploitative use of child
labor in India comprises the Factory Act 1948; the Bonded Labor System Abolition Act 1956; and the Child
Labor Prohibition and Regulation Act 1986, none of which clearly applies to sericulture under conditions
prevailing in Uttar Pradesh owing to various exemptions (notably children working in the context of family labor
in agriculture). Following a recent Supreme Court ruling (No. 465), state governments in India were instructed
in December 1996 to conduct surveys to determine the extent of child labor use, and to implement preventive
measures. GOUP has recently completed its preparatory work and intends to establish a revolving fund to
finance the education of child workers while also protecting their families' livelihoods. The potential issue of
child labor is also under consideration in the context of the draft UP Sericulture Act, along with strengthening of
the licensing and technology regulation measures already being implemented by UP's DOS.
In light of these initiatives already being undertaken by GOUP, the project will support the following: (i) an
action-orientated study to draw lessons from other parts of India where child labor in sericulture is a problem
and identify specific ways in which similar problem can be prevented in UP sericulture; (ii)fiurther regulation of
reeling technology by reinforcing UP Department of Sericulture's existing licensing arrangements through the
proposed Sericulture Act and through public-private partnerships focused on agreements with credit institutions
to extend credit preferentially to operators using multi-end reeling units which precludes use of child labor; (iii)
drawing on the relevant competencies of the NGOs involved in the implementation of the sericulture sub-
component to sensitize and train those directly involved in silk production and reeling on the importance of child
education, appropriate working conditions, and use of workers' groups to be promoted under the project for child
labor prevention and monitoring; (iv) institutional dialogue and partnerships with NGOs and other agencies, e.g.
UNICEF, working in the field of child labor prevention and rehabilitation in UP; (v) strengthening of GOUP's
existing monitoring, enforcement and inspection procedures through staff training, revision, production and
distribution of relevant operational guidelines, and involvement of independent agencies in monitoring activities;
and (vi) promotion of convergence between DASP, especially in districts where sericulture is an important part
of the farming system, and other GOI/GOUP/NGO programs/projects aimed at expanding and/or improving
primary education. In addition, UPDASP is committed to implementing any additional measures that may be
identified through the study, or through engagement with other concerned stakeholders, as and when necessary.
The Social Assessment, Annex 2, Attachment 5 provides additional background.
At negotiations assurances were obtained that no later than December 31, 1998 GOUP would complete the
study on developing a monitoring program to safeguard against child labor and not later than March 31, 1999
commence implementation of recommendations of the study agreed with IDA/Bank.
Tribal people represent only 0.2 percent of the total UP population. Some horticulture and sericulture activities
under the project are proposed in hill districts where the tribal share of total population is up to 3.5 percent. In
these areas, tribal people are among the intended project beneficiaries, particularly for sericulture. Various
features of project design are aimed at the inclusion of other socially excluded groups who in UP are numerically



Project Appraisal Document                                  U.P Diversified Agricultural Support Project
INDIA                                                                                  Page 23
more significant and more disadvantaged than tribal people. Notable among these groups are scheduled castes,
the functionally landless, and women . Scheduled castes account for 21 percent of the total population of UP and
around one third of all landless households. The Social Assessment, Annex 2, Attachment 5, elaborates on this
beneficiary assessment.
At negotiations, assurances were obtained that by March 31, 1999 GOUP would establish a Task Force to
assess the present situation and prepare a program on gender issues in technology dissemination and shall,
thereafter, implement the agreedprogram in consultation with IDA/Bank.
For the road improvement component, although roads would be improved on the existing alignments a small
amount of land may be required in some locations where either the old road embankments are being re-
constructed to their original slope or where some smoothing of curves is being done. Generally this would be
only a few feet of land and often that would be land that was previously under embankment material before
erosion took place. GOUP have advised that, as has been the past practice with rural roads, this land would be
given voluntarily without any land acquisition and without compensation because of the strong interest by
villagers in getting better roads. It has been agreed that a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) would be
signed with GOUP (District Magistrate or his nominee in the concerned district) by all impacted families and by
the Village Bodies (Gram Sabha) of the beneficiary villages. Only after unanimous agreement by all affected
parties would construction be started. Where any individuals are not willing to sign MOUs then fresh roads
would be taken up. Tlhe process to be followed is: (i) initial road identification against prioritizing criteria; (ii)
team of officials, including representatives of the PCU and the concerned District Magistrate, and PWD would
contact villagers and village leaders to ascertain willingness; (iii) after positive preliminary report PWD would
conduct detail plane table survey, finalize alignment, and prepare strip maps; (iv) these would then be transferred
to village maps to idenitify affected plot numbers; (v) District Magistrate, PCU and PWD officials would then
meet with the village mukhias, gram sabhas and individual land holders to complete the MOU process. The
primary concern is to ensure that the vulnerable elements of the community are not disadvantaged by the process
of voluntary land transfer. In addition to the MOU, the procedure to be followed (see MOU1) emphasizes a
transparent, public consultation process in drawing up the list of concerned land holders, including those without
legally documented rights in land. The intention is to bring about an attitudinal change among those
implementing the project as well as to safeguard the interests of the vulnerable. Under the arrangements for
independent monitoring and evaluation of project activities to be undertaken by Indian Institute of Management-
Lucknow, close attention will be paid to monitoring this process to ensure transparency and that land
contributions are made voluntarily. (Proposed conditionalities described in Annex 2).
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category  [ lA   J/J B  fJ C
The Environmental Plan is given in Annex 2, Attachment 7. A main objective of the project is to have a positive
impact on the environment through a focus on improved natural resource management. The proposed support for
research and development of recommendations based on IPM is expected to reduce pesticide use compared to the
without project situation. The IPNM, aimed at balanced nutrient use, improved crop rotations and improved soil
analysis capability, would limit the wasteful use of fertilizers reducing negative impacts on groundwater and
saving farmers money. The project also would strengthen GOUP's overall capacity to manage green
environmental issues including conservation of local breeds which will help to increase and conserve biodiversity.
There is a small possibility of soil erosion impact from the roads component but since all roads would be following
existing alignments except for a small number of minor local deviations and since improving drainage structures
would be part of the investrnent the impact is not expected to be significant. Alignment and site selection would
be done taking potential erosion into account. No roads are to be rehabilitated or constructed in the hill districts
where potential for environmental impact is greater.



Project Appraisal Document                                         U.P Diversified Agricultural Support Project
INDIA                                                                                             Page 24
7. Participatory approach:
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups (see Annex 2, Attachment 4 - NGO Participation and Attachment
5 - Social Assessment):
Appraisal                Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups     CON                      CON                      COL
Intermediary NGOs       CON                      CON                      COL
Academic institutions    COL                      COL                       COL
Local government      COL                      COL                       COL
Other donors
Private Sector     CON                      CON                      COL
Form of Planned Involvement:- CON=Consultation    COL=Collaboration
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
With respect to environmental sustainability, the project is expected to be sustainable and to contribute positively
to future agriculture sustainability in UP. This would be enhanced by the following: (i) research focused on
sustainability; (ii) diversification of crop and livestock farm enterprises which would reduce monocropping; (iii)
more specifically, a focus on perennial crops such as fruit and mulberry which are good for soil management; (iv)
a soil nutrient management component specifically to promote practices aimed at improving soil nutrient status;
(v) an IPM component; (vi) the development of livestock stall-feeding and improved livestock efficiency which
would reduce grazing pressure; (vii) studies to improve water use efficiency; (viii) greater cost recovery which
would reduce wastage of resources. With respect tofinancial sustainability, a study on this issue was undertaken
during project preparation. This indicates that project expenditure at the peak would represent about a five percent
increase in the annual allocations to the agriculture sector. While there would be an added burden of maintenance
expenditure after the project, this would be modest and would be very quickly offset by the increasing cost
recovery initiated by the project.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
....*.*..........................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... a..
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Slow pace of reform may not result in environment     S          Establishment of EPAU which would monitor
sufficiently conducive to greater private sector                 progress and propose to APC corrective actions.
involvement.
Slower than anticipated technology development.      M           Close monitoring, institutional changes to
improve management practices, and
participatory processes to ensure that
technology responds to farmer needs. In
addition, relevant technology would also be
obtained by closer linkages with national and
international institutions.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Risk of slow implementation due to slow               M          Strengthened procurement capacity in PCU,
procurement.                                                     close monitoring especially in first two years.
Risk of poor performance of technology                S          Careful design, monitoring, and institutional
development investments due to lack of experience                changes, and overseas training provisions to see
with competitive processes, public/private                       how such activities are handled elsewhere.
partnerships etc.



Project Appraisal Document                                    U.P Diversified Agricultural Support Project
INDIA                                                                                    Page 25
Organization and management arrangements for the  S         Research-Extension-Farner linkages would be
Technology Dissemination activities may be                  strengthened with emphasis on participatory
constrained by inadequate support form the public           methodologies with sharing of responsibilities
institutions                                                (and costs) with farmer organizations/groups
and the private sector.
Overall Risk Rating                  S         I_I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The project is taking a proactive approach in seeking to prevent the future use of child labor in the sericulture
related activities of the project (see Annex 2 Attachment 5). However, it is possible that the actions proposed
under the project would not satisfy all interested parties. Notwithstanding this concern, it was decided to include
this component and endeavor to make a significant contribution on an important and difficult issue.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1.    Effectiveness Condition
GOUP has finalized the rural roads maintenance policy for the state.
2.    Proposed Dated Covenants
In Relation to Technology Development
a) By March 31, 2000 GOUP, in consultation with IDA/Bank, would engage experts to develop terms of
reference and undertake a study to review progress in implementing the reform program in UPCAR and not
later than September 30, 2000 complete the study and agree on an action plan with IDA/Bank to implement its
recommendations.
b) For the CARP: (i) UPCAR would finalize its approval of the first phase of research proposals in accordance
with the criteria and operational procedures agreed with IDA/Bank not later than December 31, 1998; (ii)
GOUP would provide continued funding during the post-project period for completion of the research work
initiated during the project period; and (iii) subject to satisfactory performance of CARP, GOUP would
provide continued funding support for the competitive research funding mechanism.
In Relation to Establishment of a Demand Driven Technology Dissemination System
a) For the management: of the Technology Dissemination activities at the district level and below, GOUP would,
not later than December 31, 1998, establish Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA) as a
registered society to manage the Technology Dissemination activities as per Terms of Reference agreed with
IDA/Bank.
b) GOUP would take all necessary measures to ensure that, not later then December 31, 1999, extension services
in at least one block of two project districts would be "contracted" to NGOs or private service providers in
association with Commodity Groups/Association and/or Self-Help Groups with technical back-stopping by the
district teams and block level staff of the line departments.
c) GOUP would ensure that NGOs contracted under the project would be selected according to the criteria agreed
with IDA/Bank; and by December 31, 1999 would appoint a suitably qualified agency to undertake an



Project Appraisal Document                                  U.P Diversified Agricultural Support Project
INDA                                                                                   Page 26
independent assessment of the participatory management processes adopted under the project and no later than
June 30, 2000 agree with IDA/Bank on an action plan to implement its recommendations.
d) GOUP would: (i) no later than December 31, 1998 complete the study on developing a monitoring program to
safeguard against child labor becoming a problem in Sericulture; and (ii) by March 31, 1999 commence
implementation of recommendations of the study agreed with IDA/Bank.
e) By June 30, 2000 Animal Husbandry Department (AHD) would commission an independent review to assess
implementation progress of the Para-vet program and based on recommendations of this review take appropriate
actions to encourage commercial success of the Para-vet scheme including withdrawal of similar services
provided by the AHD from areas with effective coverage by Para-vets.
f) By March 31, 1999 GOUP would establish a Task Force to assess the present situation and prepare a program on
gender issues in technology dissemination and shall, thereafter, implement the agreed program in consultation
with IDA/Bank.
In Relation to Increased Private Sector Involvement in Agri-business Development
a) GOUP, by December 31, 1998, would engage an autonomous agency to establish project development facility
to mobilize increased private investment in production and post-harvest value addition activities including
agro-processing.
In Relation to Rural Infrastructure Development
a) With regards to the rural roads to be financed under the project, GOUP would: (i) select roads and improve
these according to criteria and technical standards agreed with IDA/Bank; (ii) maintain them in accordance
with the action plan consistent with the road maintenance policy to be finalized by GOUP by December 31,
1998; (iii) no later than December 31, 1998 employ consultants under terms of reference acceptable to
IDA/Bank to inspect and verify the technical quality of roads improved; and (iv) where additional land is
required for road improvement, as has been the past practice in the state, ensure that this is provided by local
communities voluntarily in accordance with a MOU to be signed between GOUP (concerned District
Magistrate or his nominee) and all affected members of the participating community; and (v) would not
commence improvement of roads in locations where private land is needed until such MOUs have been
concluded.
In Relation to Overall Management of the Project
a) GOUP to ensure that the Project Co-ordinator, DASP would also be the Secretary, Co-ordination, APC Branch
for the duration of the project.
b) By January 31 of each year, starting in 1999, the PCU would provide to IDA/Bank for review and comments a
copy of the Project's Annual Work Program for the following fiscal year to be financed under the project.
c) Starting December 31, 1998, six-monthly and annual reports would be submitted by PCU synthesising overall
project progress within thirty days of the end of the reporting period for IDA's review and comments.
d) GOUP would monitor and evaluate, on an on-going basis, achievement of project objectives using performance
indicators agreed with the Association and the Bank.
e) (i) By December 31, 1999 and September 30, 2001, PCU would undertake two project implementation reviews;



Project Appraisal Documeint                                 U.P Diversified Agricultural Support Project
INDIA                                                                                  Page 27
(ii) by June 30, 2000 and March 31, 2001, in consultation with IDA/Bank, develop an action plan to implement
their recommendations.
f) By December 31 each year starting in 1998 PCU would furnish an annual training plan satisfactory to
IDA/Bank and shall thereafter commence implementation of such plans.
g) By December 31, 1998, GOUP with assistance from financial management consultants, would prepare a
manual for accounting, auditing and internal financial control practices acceptable to IDA/Bank and,
thereafter, put into effect a training program on such practices for all participating institutions responsible for
implementing the project.
h) By December 31, 1998 GOUP would: (i) establish EPAU with key staff whose qualifications and experience
are acceptable to IDA/Bank; and (ii) each year commencing from March 31, 1999 EPAU's annual work
program would be agreed with IDA/Bank.
i) By December 31, 1998, GOUP, in consultation with the Association and the Bank, would engage an
experienced procurement officer.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
H. Readiness for Implementation
[/] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation..
[/] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[/] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[/] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Tea  Leader/Task   nager: Ashok K Seth
Sector Managers: Michael Baxter/Ridwan Ali
Country Director: E      R. Li



Project Appraisal Document                                           U.P Diversified Agricultural Support Project
INDIA                                                                                               Page 28



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                     Page 29
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                          Annex I
ANNEX 1
ITTAR PRADESH DIVERSIFIED AGRICULTURE SUPPORT PROJECT
PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
CAS Objective
Assumptions:
Accelerate sustainable agricultural   Shifts in productivity and contribution   Reports provided by GOUP  Research and extension, skill
growth and rural development    of agriculture to economic growth.                               enhancement, financial
reform, and decentralization
and other policy reforms
would enhance productivity in
agriculture.
Improved productivity would
enhance overall growth,
reduce income/gender
inequality and reduce rural
poverty.
Risks
The pace of policy,
institutional and fiscal reforms
may be slower than
anticipated.
Project Development
Objectives
Changes in management practices of                              Assumptions:
Increased productivity of UP's  farmers due to new technologies     Yield surveys of selected    Institutional reforms, new
deversified agricultural production   and/or improved policy by farm size    crops/livestock supplemented   technologies, enhanced client
systems.                        and type.                           by less formal participatory  orientation would assist in
techniques. Monthly recording   increased private sector
Level of adoption of new technologies  of price data. Selective  involvement, accelerate
disseminated to improve productivity.   household income and    growth in diversified
expenditure surveys in Year I   agriculture and increase
Number and type of human resource    and Year 5 coupled with    farmer income.
development activities undertaken  survey of technologies offered
desegregated by gender.            by zone.                     Risks
Incentives, policy and legal
Implementation progress of agreed  Monitoring records on human   framework may not be
matrix of policy and institutional  resource development with a  sufficiently conducive to
reforms associated with the project.  gender focus.             greater private sector
participation due to slow pace
Improvements in rural roads and    Surveys of private sector    of reform and political
markets as per agreed timetable.   participation in selected    uncertainty.
Districts in Year I and Year 5.
Quality of technology may be
Matrix updated and, where    constrained by lack of new
possible, impact evaluation of   information and/or slower
two or three selected reforms    than anticipated research
through sample survey and    progress.
MTR.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                              Page 30
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                                                                  Annex 1
Project Outputs
1. Technology Developnent.
Assumptions:
Enhanced efficiency and                     (a) Extent and levels of adoption of            (a) UPCAR data sources                  Staff in public research
effectiveness of research                   improved research management                    supplemented by M&E                     institutions would adopt
coordination and quality and                systems at UPCAR and SAUs                       consultant survey                       proposed changes in
relevance of research..                                                                                                             operational modalities
(b) Year 5 survey of inputs from non-           (b) Assessment by M&E
SAU institutions in technology                  consultant                              Capacity to generate new
development.                                                                            technologies exist and that
they would be successfully
utilized through competitive
process.
Risks
Response to competitive
allocation of research funds
may be weaker than
anticipated.
Coordination among research-
extension-farmer groups may
be slower or more difficult
than anticipated.
.......................................................   ............... ................. ..............................................   ................................ ................... ........... -..................................................... ........... .
2. Technology Dissem ination
Estabiishment of decentralized and    Effectiveness and sustainability of                   Assessment by Project PCU               Assumptions:
demand driven technology                    district extension operations as                with assistance from M&E                Sstems approaches improve
dissemination system with greater           measured by: (a) success of district            Consultant                              the quality of technology
participation by the private sector,    technology plan; and (b) fund                                                               offered.
NGOs and farming communities.               availability and utilization.                   Review  of extension plans and
annual reports                         Participatory research and
Level, nature and intensity of                                                          extension design enhances
stakeholder participation in the                                                        adoption rates.
Technology dissemination process.
Farmers in selected districts
Level of adoption and productivity                                                      are receptive to group
impacts of new technologies by farm                                                     formation.
size and type (long run).
~~~~~~~~~.......... .........................  ................................... ......................... zeadtpQogu).................    .................................................I............... ....................... .................... .........
3. Support for Increased Private Sector Involvenent in Public/Private Partnerships and Agri-business Development
.......................................................................  .............................................................................. ........................................................................................................
Reduce constraints to private entry,   Legal and regulatory constraints and                 Shifts in investments in agri-          NGO and the private sector
greater private investment in agro-    number and type of subsidies                         business by the private sector,         and farmer's organizations
industrial ventures and reduction in    eliminated during project preparation                                                       may not be able to take over
subsidies which reduce private              phase and during implementation                 Impact study at the completion    functions/activities previously
entry.                                      phase.                                          of the project.                         undertaken by the public
institutions.
Number of new agri-businesses                                                           Leadership and capacity may
established during the project.                                                         not be available to provide
training in participatory
approaches to develop need-
based extension plans.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                      Page 31
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                                           Annex I
4. Rural Infrastructure Developmentw
........................................................................................................................................................ ..............................................................
Improvements in rural infrastructure    Number of markets and kms of rural    Baseline and annual
(roads and markets) to enable farmers  roads upgraded.                         information based on market
and private sector to fully exploit                                            records on the volumes at
market opportunities.                   Changes in percent of output           targeted rural markets.
damaged in transit and storage (e.g.
horticulture produce, dairy (milk)     Changed traffic flow on
loss.                                  project rural roads.
Change in produce volume traded
through rural markets.
Project Activities
1. Technology Development
............................................................................   ............................................................................  ...............................................................................................
(i) Enhance research coordination by    (i) Increase efficiency measured by    Review of research plans and    Assumptions:
strengthening UPCAR, SAUs and           the number of new technologies         program reports to assess:        Introduction of competitive
UP's linkages with the national         adopted and their effectiveness                                          allocation of funds with a
research system.                                                               (a) number and stages of          focus on multi-disciplinary
(ii) percent of funds allocated to     emerging technologies.           systems oriented research
(ii) to enhance efficiency and          different agencies through CARP                                          would produce results of
effectiveness of research through       utilized as per agreed objectives      (b) current researcher/reviewer   greater relevance to farmers.
competitive allocation of funds to      and composition of research            satisfaction
multi-disciplinary systems oriented    institutions receiving funds from the                                     Ability exists, or can be
research which is open to public and    CARP and their outputs                 (c) composition of research       quickly established, to
private institutions in UP with         *   number completed on schedule.   funding                              administer competitive grants
capacity for agricultural research.     *   technical and cost-effective                                         to generate high quality
including IPM and IPNM research.            nature of the work.                (ii) external review of research   research.
financed under the project at    Motivation for greater
(iii) (a) strengthen research-          (ii) (a) Number of new technology       18 and 36 months to assess       interaction between KVKs,
extension-farmer linkages by            development activities initiated       quality and relevance             ZRSs and line departments
supporting interaction between KVKs  through KVKs and ZRSs and line             *   monitoring and field         exists.
and ZRSs and SAUs and line              departrnents interactions.                   survey at Year 3 and
departments.                                                                         Year 5                      Risks
Lack of prior experience of
(b) enhancing the availability of    (b) Assessment of genetic potential of  (iii) (a) monitoring number      competitive grants and
improved genetic stock crops and        selected crops and breeds before and    and type of interactions         systems oriented research and
breeds.                                 after the project e.g. number of new   between the institutions          the challenge of redirecting
cross-breeds, number of new apple                                       long-standing processes and
varieties introduced.                  (b) baseline information on       attitudes in existing large
new genetic stock available      organizations.
* census of genetic stock
available at Year 3 and
Year 5



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                     Page 32
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                                                         Annex I
_~~~~
2. Technology Dissemnination
()Rtoaiainadroinain........................................................ .................... .........................................................  ....... ........................ ................  ..............................................................
(i   ainaILzation and reorientation
of the public extension service
of technical and        a) Number of new location specific           Baseline information from:           Risks
managerial decision making to the          technologies adopted, especially those    *    line department records            Insufficient commitment of
district level and integration of          impacting on improved resource               *    survey of farmers by            the existing government
functions of different agencies            management.                                       M&E consultant on               institutions, NGOs and the
through district strategic extension                                                         contact with extension          small private sector to
plans.                                     (b) Matrix of technical/managerial                workers                         coordinate successful links
decision making decentralized to the                                              between research-extension-
Redeployment and training of line          district level indicating the prior/new      Project MIS records                  farmers.
department staff to promote new            decision maker.
knowledge and participatory                                                             Year 5 Evaluation Survey by          Realistic rate of progress in
approaches to technology                   *    Number of line department staff    M&E consultants                           adopting the bottom-up
dissemination.                                  redeployed/trained in                                                        approach
participatory methodologies.
............................................. ........................................ ....... ..............................   ............................................... ....... .......... ...................................................... ...... .
(ii) Increasing the Role of Private Sector
...................... .............................................    ............................................................................. ................................................................ ................................
(i) Agriculture:                           (i) Agriculture                              Baseline and follow-up
*    Increase privatelcommunity            *    Number of (based on annual              evaluation surveys by M&E
role and participation in on-              monitoring by extension staff) of   consultants on:
farm, IPNM, IPM.                           [NM, on-farm, and IPNM                  *    private sector and
*    Raise productivity of rainfed              activities indicating prior and              community participation
arid to semi-arid districts                current public/private                       in activities concerned
through improved farm                      involvement.                            *    income/gender
management practices,                 *    Change in per-hectare                        distribution of intended
especially those related to land           productivity of rainfed crops e.g.           beneficiaries
and water.                                 oil seed and legumes (district          *    level of cost recovery
level in the project area).                 from services
(ii) Horticulture:                         (ii) Horticulture
*    Employment of horticulturist          *    Number of private horticulturists    Survey of adopted inputs and
commodity groups or other                  trained as extension workers            associated technologies.
private agencies and their           *    Change in the quantity of post
training to promote and support            harvest waste                          Review of extension strategy
improved horticultural crop          *    Number of new/improved private   changes over project period.
management practices                       nurseries
*    Promotion of private nurseries    *    Quantity of output from private             Project MIS records
*    Promotion of improved post-                nurseries
harvest management practices          *    Quality of fruit and vegetable          Evaluation survey of program.
markets by private sector
Risk
(iii) Livestock:                           (iii) Livestock                                                                   Possibility of para-vets
*    Promotion of milk hygaine             *    Milk quality improvement.               Monitoring of Al performance,   dropping out due to non-
program                              *    Improvement in regulatory                survey of paravets                   availability of inputs and/or
*    Establish Para-Vets to provide             functions                               effectiveness                        disparity in service changes
Al services to farmers on a full                                                                                        with public service.
cost recovery basis.
Assumption
Credit and input supplies
would be available and public
service charges will be
increased as per agreed cost
recovery schedule outlined in
policy matrix (Annex 2,
Attachment I)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                      Page 33
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                                           Annex I
Risk
(iv) Sericulture:                     (iv) Sericulture                                                          Private investment may not
*   Expansion of public/private       *   Comparison of the number of silk   Monitoring records by              take place due to slower than
production infrastructure for         worm eggs and DFLs supplied.        Sericulture staff/PCU             anticipated skill enhancement
supply of silk worm eggs and     *   Compare the quantity of silk                                           of potential participants
DFLs                                  production before/after project     Monitoring records by             and/or access to institutional
*   Number of new local-level           sericulture staff PCU             credit.
*   Organize local-level sericulture       sericulture extension workers;
extension with the help of            number of NGO Para-workers                                           Assumption
NGOs and FOs                          trained to participate in                                             Sufficient number of skilled
implementation of the project.                                       new growers would take up
*   Establishment of a monitoring    *   Level, and changes in level and       Monitoring of changes in         sericulture, and have access to
system to assess the status of        conditions of child labor in        legislation and enforcement       credit.
child labor in sericulture in UP      reeling.                            related to child labor.
and changes over time.                                                    Completion of studies on child
labor and implementation of
recommendations
...................................... ......  ............... ...............................................................................................................
(ho Enh6~ancing th   atcpto   yFrigCmunities.
(i) Formation of FIGs including       (i) Number of FIGs formed and the       Baseline survey of                Assumptions:
village based saving and credit SH[G   variety/representation from different    gender/income composition of:  Grass-root level extension
and CG/CA focused on the              sub-sectors and gender/income            *   beneficiaries as each        programs are more efficient in
production and marketing of a         distribution of membership.                   individual joins the FIG,    technology generation and
specific sub-sector                                                                 SHG, and CG/CA              adoption and would increase
(ii) Number of SHG and CG/CA            *   at project mid-term          farm productivity as well as
(ii) Training of SHG and CG/CA        members trained in each of financial    *   at project completion         equity.
members and participating             management, group dynamics and                                            Existing system can be
supporting agencies (NGOs, line       participatory concepts as well as their   Project records.                molded to adopt a
department, and lending institution    gender distribution.                                                     participatory approach.
staff).                                                                                                         The private sector can
(iii) number of NGOs, FOs engaged in   Group records and records          successfully be used in input
(iii) Facilitation of linkages with the   day to day activities in extension   maintained at the banks.         supply and support services.
lending institutions to mobilize      services; measured changes in
credit financing                      knowledge of extension workers.
(iv) Amount of credit secured by the
FIGs, SHG and CG/CA members
including percentage of women by
income group.
(iv) Strengthening of extension       (v) Before/after comparison of:          Year 4 Evaluation survey         Risks
training and communications           number of extension workers trained                                       Farmers organizations may
capacity                              in new methodologies adopted for                                          not form as quickly as
contacts with farmers;                                                    anticipated.
3. Supportfor Increaed Pivate Secor Involvement in Pub              e Partnerships in Agri-busine s D. ve. opm.  ........................................................
........................................ .....................................................................................................................................................................    ...............................
(a) Credit mobilization andfacilitation.
Increase access to credit for         Number of incremental loans received   Monitoring and surveys by          Assumptions:
subsistence farmers, landless,        by subsistence farmers, landless,        M&E consultants of               SHGs, CGs etc will enhance
unemployed, and rural women           unemployed and rural women as well   effectiveness at 36 months and   vulnerable group access to
through self-help groups and          as self-help-groups and commodity        final year                       credit.
commodity groups.                     groups.
b) Project Development Facility (PDF)
~~~~~~~~~~e         i.................... .....  V i......... ;   .......................................    .. ..    ..  i;G i g.........................................  ..................... .......
- establishment of a Project          - Volume and quality of work of the      Monitoring                       PDF will be successful in
Development Facility (PDF).           PDF.                                                                      increasing private sector
involvement in post harvest
activities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                       Page 34
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                                           Annex I
4. RuralInfrastructureDevelopment
.............. ..................................................    .............................................................................  ...............................................................   ................................
Rural Roads:                          (a) (i) Number of km improved; 600       *   PCU progress reports,        Assumptions:
(a) Improve about 1,600 km of rural   km by end 2000, 1600 km by project            M&E survey.                 Improved infrastructure/
roads.                                end.                                                                      markets would be fully
*   Reviews and reports of       utilized
(a) (ii) Consultants appointed for           independent technical
quality review.                              examiner
Risks
(b) sustainable framework for           *   Beneficiary survey           Failure to implement effective
(b) Execute program of road           maintenance established covering: (i)         feedback from               maintenance program.
maintenance works and improve         funding mechanisms; (ii) inter-               communities
maintenance management including   institutional collaboration (iii)                                            Possible delays in
testing of new maintenance funding    community participation;                                                  procurement processing
mechanism and transfer of                                                                                       which may result in targets
responsibility to communities                                                                                   not being met.
(c) monitoring of changes in volume
(c) Strengthen capacity of            of work in procurement, and
implementing agencies (e.g. PWD)    qualitative assessment of changes in
to plan and execute (procurement,    financial management and capacity for
contract administration, financial    stakeholder consultation.
management and stakeholder
consultation) rural roads program
Rural Markets:                                                                                                  Risks
(a) Upgrading up to 145 high          *   Number of Haat Painths as cattle   Project records                    Unforeseen policy or
volume Haat Painths and 13 cattle          markets actually upgraded.                                           associated infrastructure or
markets (Revenue generated through   *   Proportion of revenue generated    Impact study after project          management constraints that
service charges would finance              for maintenance and the             implementation                   reduce the ability of farmers
operation and maintenance and              proportion of total revenue used                                     or traders to fully utilize
future expansion of these markets).        for future expansion of Haat        Marketing Federation             markets
(b) Improvement of markets                 Painths                             management records.
handling fruits and vegetables at     *   Type and frequency of farmer
two Mandi Parishad secondary               access to market information.
market yards in priority horticultural  *   Changes in value of fruits and
development areas.                         vegetables transacted and in
handling losses.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ------ -....----. ----higl.s.s............................................  ..........................................................   ..............................
5. Project Management Support
........... ...................................................   .........................................................I....................   ................................................................ ...............................
(i) Establish a Project Coordination    *   Implementation and                 Regular project reporting.       Assumptions:
Unit (PCU) for project management.         disbursement of the project.                                         Sound management can
*   Sound monitoring and evaluation   Assessments of supervision         substantially impact on
(ii) Reputed independent agency to         contributing to good project        missions.                        project performance within
undertake concurrent monitoring            management and achievement of                                        the constraints of policy and
and evaluation of the project.             objectives.                         PCU, Bank supervision, and       level of development in the
*   Number of decisions based on        DEA assessments of value and   state.
MIS feedback.                      quality of M&E data from
*   Assessment reports by               M&E agency.                      Risk
supervision missions.                                                Attempting too large a
*   Quality of data for the MTR                                          volume of information in
M&E and failing to get
timely quality information to
management
(iii) Establish an Economic Policy    Number of high quality reports           Assessment and evaluate the
and Analysis Unit.                    evaluating public expenditure in         report
agriculture and, if any, the number
resulting in policy reforms.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 35
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                       Annex I/Attachment I
PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
No.                                Indicators                                Unit
I          Increase in beneficiary family income                         Rs.in thous.
2          Per-capita income                                             Rs.in thous.
3          Component-wise Gender distribution                                %
4          Commodity-wise increase in area                                   %
5          Commodity-wise increase in productivity                        tons/ ha
6          Commodity-wise cost recovery per year                             %
7          Commodity-wise change in price                                    %
8          Investment by Private Sector                                   Rs. in lacs
9          Ratio of investment: public/ private sector                    Rs. in lacs
10         Region-wise poverty                                               %
11         Staff trained against staff deployed/ appointed                   %
12         Trained extension workers against selected workers                %
13         N+P+K consumption                                                kg/ ha
14         Consumption of FYM                                               kg/ ha
15         Increase in Micro-nutrients availability - Zn++                   %
16         Increase in Micro-nutrients availability - S--                    %
17         Increase in Micro-nutrients availability - Fe++                   %
18         Increase in Micro-nutrients availability - Mg++                   %
19         Technologies adopted by farmners to the Tech. disseminated        %
20         Length of constructed roads                                      kms.
21         Length of roads upgraded                                         kms.
22         Villages connected to roads                                       nos.
23         Increase in traffic on constructed/ upgraded roads                %
24         Reduction in spoilage of commodity in transit                     %
25         Reduction in spoilage of commodity in storage                     %
26         Cost of maintenance of roads per year                            Rs/km
27         Haat Paints developed/ constructed                                nos.
28         FIGs formed at village level                                      nos.
29         Amount of credit available with farmers                        Rs. in lacs
30         Farmers Associations formed at Block level                        nos.
31         Increase in newly established private agro-industry venture       nos.
32         Increase in produce recorded in rural market/ mandis              %
33         Establishment of new private nurseries                            nos.
34         Upgraded private nurseries                                        nos.
35         Conception against Al performed                                   %
36         Progeny rate: Cow                                                 nos.
37         Progeny rate: Buffalo                                             nos.
38         Increase in milk production: Cow                                  %
39         Increase in milk production: Buffalo                              %
40         Increase in wool production: Sheep                                %
41         Increase in meat production: Goat                                 %
42         Increase in private mini dairies                                  %
43         Research Project Financed under CGPAR                            nos.
44         Allocation of funds under CGPAR to SAU's                          %
45         Allocation of funds under CGPAR to NGO's                          %
46         Allocation of funds under CGPAR to private sector                 %
47         Formal interaction between KVKs and ZRS                           nos.
48         D:FL intake                                                    lacs dfl/ ha
49         Establishment of new private ventures in cocoon activity          nos.
50         Randitta                                                          ratio
51         Child labor involved in reeling                                   nos.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                               Page 36
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 37
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                     Annex 2
ANNEX 2
UTTAR PRADESH DIVERSIFIED AGRICULTURE SUPPORT PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.     Objective. The principal objective of the proposed project would be to accelerate the growth of UP's diversified
agriculture in relation to agro-ecological potential and market demand with a particular emphasis on production systems which
benefit the rural poor.
2.      Design Considerations. As UP is a large state with diverse agro-climatic conditions offering a wide range of
development opportunities, the project is envisaged as the first step of a long-term program. The first phase would be
concentrated in selected areas (blocks) in different agro-ecological zones to ensure impact and for later expansion based on
implementation experience. The area covered under the project would be enlarged in a phased manner. During the pre-project
period the work is being initiated in selected blocks in about five districts to gain implementation experience. It is proposed to
increase the area after project effectiveness to about 15 districts. Following the first major review of the project, to be
undertaken about 18 months after project effectiveness, additional blocks would be brought under the project (increasing the
total to about 32 districts) with appropriate adjustments in design based on experience. The only exception to this general
approach would be some Animal Husbandry activities e.g. disease prevention program, which would be spread over a wider
area. A second review 36 months after effectiveness would provide further opportunity for adjustments based on
implementation experience and impact assessment.
3.      The project would support govemment's development priorities to accelerate agricultural growth by focusing on areas
that show potential for rapid growth through intensification as well as diversification and contribute to poverty reduction and
regional disparities. Accordingly, the thrust of the project would be to: improve the quality and relevance of the technology
development and dissemination system; ease infrastructure limitations; encourage greater participation by the fanning
communities in decision making as well as implementation of proposed interventions; address policy and institutional constraints
that linit growth and private sector participation. In addition, the project design emphasizes the need for analyses of prevailing
fanning systems and emerging regional specialization to identify areas for intervention that have increased production potential
based on proven technologies, producer interest and market prospects.
4.      Social Context. Based on three indicators (real rural wages, agricultural labor share, share of small and marginal land
holdings), the incidence of poverty within UP is lowest in Western UP, then comes the Hill region, followed by Bundelkhand
and Central UP, the poverty distribution is highest in Eastem UP. This distribution is also confirned by a broader, capability-
based definition of poverty, measured in terms of access to basic infrastructure, literacy rates and key demographic indicators.
Caste is not a significant factor in the regional distribution of poverty, as the distribution of Scheduled Castes (21% of total
population) is relatively even throughout the state. Scheduled Tribes constitute only 0.2% of the total population of UP, but
even this figure tends to overstate their incidence as tribal people are concentrated within specific localities in Hill districts.
Consequently, UP DASP does not aim specifically to target tribal people.
5.     In relation to gender disparities, the regional pattern is somewhat different, and tends to reflect regional variations in
the influence of caste- and religion-based cultural norms and practices such as seclusion of women within the household.
Based on key gender-disaggregated indicators, particularly the female workforce participation rate, women in Eastern UP
appear to be in a relatively "better" position than those in Western UP. This wider gender disparity in development indicators
for Western UP strengthens the case for UP DASP intervention in the region, even though it has received greater development
assistance in the past. In the Hill region a relatively lower incidence of poverty is matched by less unequal gender relations.
6.      The design of UP DASP takes this regionally disaggregated view of poverty and gender imbalance into account.
Several technology dissemination activities are targeted towards women. Interventions in Westem UP would assist women of
all socio-economic status involved in agriculture through its focus on productivity improvements in milch cattle buffalo and
small ruminants. Women have been traditionally involved in caring for animals and this work is well suited to be combined
with other house-hold labor and child caring responsibilities. In addition, the project is attempting to capture the rapidly
expanding growth of commercial horticulture with its large potential to create rural employment opportunities through stronger
linkages between production and post-harvest value addition activities. The project activities would be promoted within the
context of Self-Help Groups/Commodity Associations, facilitated by local NGOs. These have proven successful in UP for
enhancing the capabilities, of farm families, especially women.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 38
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                              Annex 2
Investment Components
Component 1. Supportfor Technology Development Through Improved Research Coordination and a Competitive Grants
Program
7.     The main objective of this component would be to augment and strengthen on-going research activities so that they
can better provide the technological base for the production systems to be supported under DASP. The specific activities to be
supported would include:
(i) Enhancing Research Coordination.
At the state level, UP Council for Agricultural Research (UPCAR) would be restructured through revision of its
mandate, governance, staffing and operational procedures (see Working Paper and other supporting studies on this
component for details). It would be strengthened to provide policy guidance and to promote and facilitate inter-
institutional cooperation in agricultural research. The project would finance incremental staffing, consultancies,
training, vehicles, office equipment, computers and related hardware and software to improve its ability to
communicate and coordinate the work program with other agencies both within and outside of the state. In addition,
assistance would also be provided to enable UPCAR to develop a long-term strategic plan for agricultural research
and an agricultural information system for the State.
At the State Agricultural Universities (SAUs), the offices of the Research Directors would be strengthened through
training, technical assistance and provision of additional staff and equipment to improve capacity to manage and
coordinate research programs being implemented through various departments of the University.
These efforts would not only enhance UP's linkages with the national research system, e.g. to fully benefit from
research programs to be fmanced under the IDA/Bank assisted National Agricultural Technology Project (NATP), but
also help to lay the ground work for a possible future project to support agricultural research and education activities
in the state on a much broader front.
At negotiations assurances were obtained that, by March 31, 2000 GOUP, in consultation with IDA/Banlk would
engage experts to develop Terms of Reference and undertake a study to review progress in implementing the reform
program in UPCAR and no later than September 30, 2000 complete the study and agree on an action plan with
IDA/Bank to implement its recommendations.
(ii) Competitive Agricultural Research Program (CARP)
The project would assist to establish the CARP to commence a process aimed at enhancing the quality, relevance and
accountability of agricultural research. At the same time, CARP would enable the broader scientific community to
contribute more effectively to the development of knowledge and technology for agricultural development in the
State. CARP would finance a problem-oriented, multi-disciplinary research program specifically aimed at addressing
key production and processing constraints of the main production systems of the state. Research funds would be
available through open competition to the SAUs and their Zonal Research Stations and Substations, agricultural
faculties of general universities in the State, agricultural colleges, ICAR and CSIR national institutes operating in UP,
private sector institutions and non-governmental organizations.
CARP would be managed by UPCAR through a special cell at its Headquarters. The CARP mechanism would
involve pre-project screening of proposal, invitation to preparation of full project proposals, project proposal
evaluation through a peer-review process and approval. UPCAR would be provided services of consultants for the
establishment and adoption of procedures for the operation of the CARP.
In order to receive funding, research proposals would have to meet specified criteria such as their relevance to DASP
objectives and priorities, resource constraints and preferences of producers, the likelihood of successful outcomes.
More information on screening criteria is given in Attachment 2. The funding for successful proposals would provide
for the necessary equipment, logistical support for conducting of field trials, project-specific training and technical
assistance, salaries of temporary research fellows/associates, and materials and supplies required to carry out the
research projects.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 39
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                 Annex 2
In view of the importance of Integrated Pest Management (IPM) and Integrated Plant Nutrient Management (IPNM)
to future sustainability of agriculture, the project includes specific provisions for research and development support on
these two topics. However, as the scientists working in SAUs and other institutions have not been exposed to
competitive peer reviewed process of obtaining research funds, during the first year of the project, specific research
activities to be supported on IPM and IPNM research would be used to introduce scientists to the new process. The
steps to be followed would include: (a) a workshop to identify key constraints; (b) development of specific research
proposals by teams of scientists nominated to undertake the agreed work program; (c) review of proposals by a panel
of research experts; and (d) financing of agreed programs. From the second year onwards a fully competitive process
would be followed.
At negotiations assurances were obtained that for CARP: (i) UPCAR wouldfinalize its approval of the first phase of
research proposals in accordance with the criteria and operationalprocedures agreed with IDA/Bank not later than
December 31, 1998; (ii) GOUP wouldprovide continuedfunding during the post-project periodfor the completion of
research work initiated during the project period, and; (iii) subject to satisfactory performance of CARP, GOUP
wouldprovide continuedfunding supportfor the competitive research funding mechanism.
(iii)    Strengthening of Research Support for Technology Dissemination Activities
(a)    Improving Research-Extension-Farmer Linkages
The objective of this activity would be to improve technology transfer, and provide feedback on farmers' needs and
conditions to the research system. These would include: on-farm research, validation and demonstration activities of
the Krishing Vigyan KendraslKrishing Gyan Kendras' (KVKs/KGKs) in collaboration with Line Department
extension agencies. The project would strengthen capacities of participating agencies through training and study
tours, access to relevant literature through SAU libraries, equipment and other facilitate for participative farining
systems research and on-farm validation activities. Mechanisms would be developed to provide for strong linkages
with the Line Department extension agencies and farmers' groups.
(b)    Enhancing Availability of Improved Genetic Stock for Higher Productivity.
The objective of this sub-component would be to support activities undertaken by SAUs and/or line departments to
conserve and increase availability of improved genetic stock of crops/breeds for adoption by growers to increase farm
productivity. As production of improved seed stock for agricultural crops, especially rice, wheat oil seed, already
receive considerable attention from both the public and the private sector, the project would also give attention to the
livestock and horticultural sub-sectors. Management of these activities through the Technology Development
component would ensure better coordination and closer involvement of relevant SAU specialists, line departments
and PCU Technical Specialists. Some examples are given below.
Livestock Germplasm Enhancement. India has unique resources of livestock breeds, which have been inventoried
through FAO's Program for Global Management of Farm Animal Genetic Resources. The important indigenous
breeds in UP, which contains the largest number of livestock of any state in India, include Sahiwal, Hariana and
Gangateri in cattle, Murrah and Bhadawari in buffaloes; Berberi and Beetal and Jamunapari in goats; and Nali in
sheep. These breeds, which are still being used by the farmers, need characterization, preservation and improvement.
Provision has been made in the project for strengthening the infrastructure required to conserve and develop the
biodiversity, as well as to improve some of the existing Animal Husbandry Department (AHD) Farms to undertake
breed improvement, multiplication, demonstration, distribution and training of private breeders. The project would
also support the establishment of Open Nucleus Breeding System (ONBS) for the conservation and improvement of
the local cattle, sheep and goat breeds. The project would finance purchase of initial batch of animals, rehabilitation
of breeding farm, vehicle, equipment and other recording material for the base herd/flock recording system, and the
operating costs of the system. It is envisaged that ultimately successful breeders would form their own associations
and maintain the ONBS program.
Krish Vigyan Kendras (KVK) (Agricultural Science Centers) are being established, in a phased manner, in all districts of India through a
centrally sponsored program iinanced through the Indian Councel of Agricultural Research. Their main function is to assess and validate
technologies developed by the research system in the context of local farming systems. They also train farmers and extension workers.
Krish Gyan Kendras, financed through SAUs in U.P. in a few districts without KVKs, perfonn similar functions to those undertaken by
KVKs.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 40
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                   Annex 2
Broadening Genetic Base andAvailability of lmproved Varieties of Horticultvral Crops. Sources of horticultural
technology in UP are the SAUs, DOH and the private sector. Fruit production is mainly from perennial crops with a
long gestation period, while vegetables, floriculture and herbs and spices are primarily annual and biennial crops. The
project would support improvement in post-quarantine handling facilities (secondary quarantine) at Pant Nagar SAU
to facilitate introduction of improved genetic materials of temperate and sub-tropical crops. This facility would be
operated under the overall guidance of ICAR's National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources. At the same time to
increase availability and adoption by farmers of disease free planting material of recommended horticultural crops the
project would support a study to examine the possibility of initiating a voluntary budwood certification scheme for
private nurseries.
Technology Advisory Groups. To strengthen future development prospects for important commodities through all
stages from production to marketing, the project would foster the formation of "Technology Advisory Groups"
(TAG) on a commodity basis or a group of commodities. Each group would be composed of 3-4 eminent scientists at
the SAUs, UPCAR representative, concerned line department, producers, middlemen, consumers and agribusiness
entrepreneurs. The TAG activities and functions will be organized by the PCU's Technical Coordinator in
cooperation with UPCAR, SAUs and the concerned line departments. Early examples of such groups would be in the
horticulture sub-sector covering Horticultural Technical Advisory Groups (HTAG). Each HTAG would prepare a
commodity Action Strategy Plan to resolve production and marketing constraints and promote project activities to
resolve said constraints. The groups would meet as necessary prior to and during critical production and marketing
periods. The groups would also maintain an oversight on project's activities in budwood mother orchards, model
nurseries and staff training of the Horticulture sub-sector. Six HTAG have been proposed in the following
commodities: (1) fruits (plains and hills); (2) vegetables (plains and hills); (3) herbs, spices and medicinal plants; (4)
floriculture; (5) mushrooms; and (6) post harvest activities.
Component 2. Establishment of a Demand Driven Technology Dissemination System
8.     A major objective of this sub-component would be to make the public service more demand driven and accountable
to farmers. A concurrent objective is to enhance its sustainability by fostering a new division of labour between government
departments, the private sector, NGOs, and farmer organisations. The strategy to be adopted to achieve this objective would
be to seek increasing involvement of farmers in the technology development and dissemination process through farmers
grassroots organizations such as self-help Groups (SHGs) and Commodity Groups/Producers Associations (CGs/PAs). In
addition, the govermment line departments would be facilitated to focus available resources on dissemination of "knowledge"
based technologies. They would phase out direct involvement in production and activities directly related to input supply
which the private institutions can provide in a more cost effective manner. This shift in responsibilities of the public
institutions would require policy changes and withdrawal of subsidies as well as diminishing of government's involvement in
providing production inputs to farmers, such as planting material and artificial insemination. In the context of this overall
approach to technology dissemination, the focal point for the public and private interventions to accelerate intensification and
diversification of production systems would be farmers and their organizations.
9.     The implementation responsibility for investments proposed under the project would mainly be through the line
departments. Accordingly, the activities to be supported under this component reflect the needs of the participating line
departments as well as non-goverm-nental organizations/groups and training institutes participating under the project. These
cover the funding requirements for re-deployment and training of extension staff, formulation of farmer's interest groups,
support to NGOs, rehabilitation of facilities and procurement of goods and services. Each participating agency would prepare
annual work program which would highlight the activities to be undertaken in line with the agreed approach and priorities.
However, the funding levels proposed for the sub-sectoral activities are not intended to be final. Rather, in the interests of
effective technology dissemination, competition between sub-sectors would be encouraged by making the continued availability of
resources dependent on performance and farner demand, with redistribution of resources from slow moving to more in demand
and efficient sub-sectors at the time of scheduled reviews of project perfornance (18 and 36 months after commencement). Key
thrusts of the component are summarized below and the specific activities to be undertaken by the main line departments
(Agriculture, Horticulture, Sericulture and Animal Husbandry) are summarized in Attachment 3.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 41
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                              Annex 2
(a)    Rationalisation and Reorientation of Public Extension Service
(i) Support for Capacity Building of the Line Departments to Initiate Farming Systems Approach to Technology
Dissemination. An irnportant element of reorienting the technology dissemination role of the line departrnents would
be the project's assistance in redeployment and training of existing staff. The agriculture sector line department staff,
along with specialists at district KVKs and KGKs; and selected Zonal Research Stations (ZRS), would be responsible
for validating recommendations to address technical constraints faced by farmers in intensification and diversification
of production systems under different agro-ecological conditions. The training program would pay special attention
to skill requirements of the Subject Mater Specialists (SMSs) in managing a demand driven extension system through
both public and private channels. In addition, the Departmnent of Animal Husbandry (DOAH), DOA and DOH would
redeploy and train other staff (e.g. stockmen, in the case of AHD, staff involved with input distribution in the case of
DOA) to impart new technical skills and assume direct responsibility for technology dissemination at the block level.
Staff from different disciplines would operate as a team to give added emphasis and support to the Farming Systems
approach (broad-basing of extension support which is a declared policy objective of GOUP) being emphasised under
the project. This would require inter-departmental sharing of responsibilities in responding to fanner's needs for
technological support. The DOH-in the plains has limited number of SMSs at the district level and no technical staff
below the district level. Therefore, some incremental SMSs at the district level would be engaged on a contract basis.
In addition, at the block level, needs of farmers related to horticultural crops would be supported by the DOA's Block
Extension Officers.
(ii)  Decentralisation of Technical and Managerial Decision Making The project would support progressive
decentralisation of technical decision making to the districts. Two different mechanisms would be tested. These
arrangements for technology dissemination would provide a mechanism to strengthen co-ordination of activities of
different agencies as well as strengthen research-extension-farmer linkages composed of existing and redeployed
staff. Under the first mechanism at the district level a District project Implementation Committee (DPIC) would be
established. To establish close links with district administration the District Magistrate (DM) would be the Chairman
and the Chief Development Officer (CDO) the Vice-Chairman of DPIC. Its other members would include the key
stakeholders the representatives of line departments, SAU/KVK, Farmers Organisations, local government officials
and NGOs. The District Project Co-ordinator (DPC) would act as its member secretary. DPIC would have overall
responsibility for implementation of the district level program of the project. To meet the technical needs of farmers,
DPIC would establish district technical teams. The teams would include the District Officers from each line
department, technical expert from ZRS, plus the trainers from the local KVK/KGK. They would work together to
develop an overall Strategic Extension Plan (SEP) for the district using participatory rural appraisal (PRA)
techniques. The annual work plans (AWPs) of line departments would be based on SEPs. The district teams, under
the overall guidance and monitoring by DPIC, would take responsibility for management of district level extension,
NGO program and related operational budget (about 15 percent of total funds allocated to each line department
through PCU) to implement the AWPs.
The second mechanism, to be tested in two districts, would involve establishment of a semi-autonomous Agicultural
Technoloey Management Agencv (ATMA) with representation from all the key stakeholders. To enable direct
transfer of project funds to ATMAs for timely inplementation and to provide operational flexibility, these bodies
would be registered as societies and directed by a Governing Board composed of stakeholder representatives. The
Board would take over the role performed by DPIC in other districts. To help achieve financial sustainability,
ATMAs would be able to start recovering costs for selected activities and retain funds in revolving accounts to cover
a part of operational expenses. ATMAs would encourage partnerships with the private sector service providers.
Arrangements for preparation of SEPs and other operational modalities for day-to-day technology dissemination
activities would be through the district technical teams proposed under the first mechanism described above.
The project would expand farmer training program as well as provide in-service training and technical back-stopping
for the extension fielld staff. At the same time, proposed operational changes with emphasis on participatory
methodologies would begin to involve farmers and their organizations in the control for the technology system to
further encourage involvement of farmer's organizations in the management of the technology dissemination system,
Advisory and Consultative Teams (ACT) of farmer representatives would be supported. They would provide
feedback to the project management on programs and activities of extension staff. ACT representatives would be
encouraged to form a loose association to start working with key agencies to start influencing technology
development and dissemination agenda of the district.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 42
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                              Annex 2
At negotiations assurances were obtained thatfor the management of the Technology Dissemination activities at the
district level and below, GOUP would in two project districts, not later than December 31, 1998, establish
Agricultural Technology Management Agency (A TAM) as a registered society to manage the technology
dissemination activities as per Terms of Reference agreed with IDA/Bank.
(b)    Increasing the Role of the Private Sector in Input Supply and Support Services (see Policy Matrix Attachment I
and Annex 2 Attachment 3)
The project would progressively reduce government's role in input supply functions and, wherever possible, facilitate
leasing and/or sale of government facilities/farms to the non-govenrnental organizations including the private sector
firms. In addition, to encourage introduction of improved breeds and varieties through the private sector the project
would provide training and other support to para- veterinarians, (para-vet program), to small and medium sized
private nurserymen, seed companies and breeders who wish to establish small businesses to provide inputs and related
services to farmers. The project would assist to establish procedures for monitoring and regulating the production and
distribution of planting material and breeds to ensure that farmers are receiving high quality production inputs from
the private sector. To further strengthen this move to private sector for input supplies, State government subsidies for
inputs and other services would be phased out, moving to full cost recovery over the life of the project.
At negotiations assurances were obtained that by June 30, 2000 DOAH would commission an independent review to
assess implementation progress of the Para-vet program and based on recommendations of this review take appropriate
actions to encourage commercial success of the Para-vet scheme including withdrawal of similar services provided by
the AHDfrom areas with effective coverage by Para-vets.
(c)    Enhancing Participation by the Farming Communities
An essential element in creating a demand driven technology system is to directly involve farmers in identifying
problems, establishing priorities, and on-farm testing of technologies to enhance productivity. To achieve this
objective and to ensure long-term sustainability of project supported activities, it is planned to encourage formation of
grassroots farmer organizations and farmer interest groups (FIGs). These would include the small village based
savings and credit Self Help Groups (SHGs) as well as groups linked to specific crops or commodities. In view of
past success with women's SHGs and to ensure that women members of the farming community receive appropriate
attention, greater attention would be given to SHGs formed by women. To improve the terms on which farming
communities gain access to markets, the project would promote formation of Commodity Groups(CGs)/Producer
Associations (PAs). The primary responsibility for the fonnation of these groups in the initial years of the project
would be with NGOs, who, in collaboration with the front line (district, block and village) extension staff of the line
departments, would work with local communities to motivate farmers to join the groups. CGs/PAs would be formed
in specific locations where farmers are predominantly involved in producing a single or related commodities, e.g.
fruits, vegetables, pigs. The experience of successful SHGs and CGs in India and elsewhere is that they must be
voluntary organizations, controlled by their members with the goal of increasing farm incomes and improving the
living standards of the participating households. These would also be the guiding principles under the project.
In addition to financing NGOs to assist with the establishment and promotion of SHGs and CGs, the project would
also fund training activities aimed at capacity building of intervenors (NGOs, Extension Personnel and Credit
Mobilization Cell described below) at different levels in the system. These would include training in financial
management, group dynamics, group management, participatory concepts, leadership skills and production of
appropriate training materials. Farmer Organizations (FOs) would be supported through training and logistical
support to take responsibility for technology transfer activities or hire para-technicians who can provide technical
services to members and establishing close linkages with the private sector organizations.
At negotiations assurances were obtained that GOUP would take all necessary measures to ensure that, not later than
December 31, 1999, extension services in at least one block of two project districts would be "contracted" to NGOs
or private service providers in association with Commodity Groups/Association and/or Self-Help Groups with
technical back-stopping by the district and block level staff of the line departments.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 43
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                              Amnex 2
Participation by Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC)
To further encourage participation by the farning communities in preservation and improvement of local livestock
breeds, SDC has agreed to finance short-term and long-term (3 years) services of local and international livestock
experts and secretarial support services needed to make them operational in UP (Livestock Special Program
Implementation Unit). Initially this assistance would be provided for three years. Specifically, the experts would
assist to: (i) develop field recording schemes for performance and progeny testing, management and improvement of
locally available breeds; (ii) develop local breeders' associations and train members to ensure that breeds are managed
and conserved effectively; (iii) train staff of participating agencies in techniques of maintaining good breeds and
breeding bulls for production of high quality semen and for natural services; and (iv) monitor operations of breeders'
associations.
Provision of this technical assistance is not part of the project but the experts are expected to provide advice to
GOUP/PCU and other participating agencies, which they may suitably take in to account in project implementation.
The cost of the technical assistance would be fmanced by the Swiss Government on a grant basis through its existing
Special Studies Consultants' Trust Fund administered by the Bank. This would be untied assistance in the amount of
about US$783,000, and such cost has not been calculated as part of the project costs, nor the fmancing plan. GOUP,
through PCU, would hire and supervise the experts. Disbursements from the Trust Fund to cover the costs of this
speical program would be against claims submitten by the PCU/Implementation Unit.
(d)    Support for Human Resource Development and Enhanced Communications Capacity
To provide Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) of participating agencies, especially the line departments, and KVK
trainers with the necessary professional skills-including training in group formation procedures, communications
and training methodologies/techniques, and how to use computers for electronic communications, and to prepare
extension newsletters and materials-the project intervention would be at three levels. First, the State Institute for
Rural Development (SIRD) and the National Institute of Agriculture Extension Management (MANAGE) would
provide professional skill training to extension personnel across all line departments and the KVKs. SIRD and
MANAGE would also help to develop capacity at the district level to provide professional skill training in
participatory rural appraisal (PRA) techniques, strategic extension planning (SEP), and FA group formation
procedures. Second, the three SAU extension directorates would be strengthened to function as the key research-
extension linkage ulnits on each SAU campus, and to forward technical information and participate in technical
training for KVK trainers and district level SMSs. Third, at the district level project resources would be used to
finance equipment, vehicle, training packages and an enlarged communications capacity to strengthen capacity of
each line department. This would enable broadening of the scope of work to cover farming systems and improve on-
farm land and water management practices. The focus of enlarged district level electronic communications capacity
would be to access technical information and backstopping from research system personnel, as well as improved
administrative comrnunications with state departmental and project coordination offices. The enhanced management
and extension training and communication capacity would enable the system to disseminate location specific
messages, for both individual commodities and broader farming systems through (a) training programs for extension
field staff and farmers, (b) the production and distribution of extension leaflets and commodity specific newsletters,
and (c) improved mobility to plan and implement, in collaboration with the local KVK/KGK and zonal research
station (ZRS) or sub-station, an expanded program of on-farm trials and demonstrations.
Component 3. Support for Increased Private Sector Involvement and Public/Private Partnerships in Agri-business
Developnent
10.    As discussed above, measures have been built into all the project components to promote greater involvement of
private institutions in support services delivery (Technology Development and Dissemination activities), human resources
development and post-harvest activities, including processing. In addition to these measures, the project would specifically
provide for: (a) credit mobilization and facilitation for smallholders and women's self-help groups to finance incremental
investrnent needs; and (b) establishment of a Project Development Facility (PDF) to assist private sector investors in agro-
business enterprises with feasibility studies and linkages with lending institutions. Specific activities would include:
(a)    Credit Mobilization and Facilitation. A critical element in uptake of improved technology disseminated
under the project would be the availability of institutional credit. While National Bank for Agriculture and Rural



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 44
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                   Annex 2
Development (NABARD) is capable of and has expressed its willingness to meet the project's credit requirements by
earmarking resources out of its planned future refnancing program for UP, it would be necessary to ensure that credit
delivery to project beneficiaries, especially to marginal farmers and other rural poor, is well coordinated and
efficiently implemented. There is also a need for specific support to promote lending through Self-Help Groups
(SHGs) and to train field personnel of credit institutions to operate improved credit procedures suitably adjusted to
meet the project's requirements. The project would, therefore, assist with credit mobilization and facilitation to ensure
that: (a) access to institutional credit for subsistence fanners, landless and unemployed, and rural women is
improved; (b) rural financing institutions (RFIs) are more proactive in assessing and meeting the credit needs of
project beneficiaries in a timely manner and are efficient in the recovery of loans; and (c) Bankers Institute for Rural
Development (BIRD) is properly equipped to organize and conduct project-related training for staff from field offices
of lending institutions and other functionaries operating in the project districts. The project would also assist with
workshops to disseminate credit extension services and studies for monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of the project's
credit program. The project would fnance (a) the services of a Field Officer who would operate from PCU and assist
in establishing effective linkages between SHGs and formal credit institutions; and (b) through BIRD, project related
training, credit extension workshops, M&E studies and associated expenses. Additionally, the project would finance
consultancy services and equipment to assist IBRD to undertake this.
(b)    Project Development Facility (PDF). An important objective of the project is to mobilize private sector
initiatives and support vertical integration of smallholder production operations with the private sector post-harvest
value addition initiatives, including agro-processing. Current levels of private investment in UP is low compared to
availability of agricultural raw materials. There are many reasons for this slow development of agro-business. These
include: unfriendly business environment, lack of awareness about potential for development, inability of potential
investors to identify viable opportunities and develop them, lack of access to technology and technical expertise, weak
linkages with producers and inadequate knowledge about the market and marketing opportunities. As the state has
recently introduced a number of policy reforms, including a new agro-industrial policy, there is a need to promote
investment possibilities in the context of the new environment. At the same time potential investors also need
assistance in preparing feasibility studies and project reports for consideration by the lending institutions. There is,
however, no agency operating in UP which is geared to providing these services, especially to small to.medium sized
investors. Accordingly, under the project it is proposed to assist with a Project Development Facility (PDF) to help
such investors to establish new ventures or to enlarge current operations to exploit market led opportunities for agro-
business development. In the initial years, PDF would focus on promotional and developmental functions of
encouraging and facilitating increased private investment in agribusiness ventures through dissemination of
information, advice for new business and establishment of linkages between producers and processors. Later, as the
service begins to be recognized, and in response to demand from potential investors, it would shift its emphasis to
"for fee" commercial services including: (a) preparation of feasibility studies, project reports and business plans and
market survey reports for potential investors for presentation to lending institutions; (b) assistance with raw material
sourcing (through linkages with farmers organizations to be promoted under the project), product marketing and
market tie-ups; and (c) provision of consultancy services and such other assistance specifically requested by
prospective investors. It is proposed that an independent agency would be contracted through an open competition to
provide this service to potential investors. Because of the service oriented nature of PDF's operations, in the initial
years of the project it would be financed on a grant basis by GOUP. However, as PDF service begins to generate
revenues thorough consultancy fees, GOUP support would decline in line with increasing income.
At negotiations assurances were obtained that GOUP, by December 31, 1998, would engage an autonomous agency
to establish project developmentfacility to mobilize increasedprivate investment in production andpost-harvest value
addition activities including agro-processing
Component 4. Rural Infrastructure Develppment
11.    Poor rural infrastructure is a serious constraint to future intensification and diversification of production systems and is
therefore addressed as a priority under the present project. Improvement of infrastructure would help to provide the enabling
environment necessary for farners to exploit market opportunities to the utmost. The activities to be supported would include:
(a) Rural Roads. The project would support the improvement of about 1600 km of rural " Farm to Market" roads to
all weather road standards in the districts selected for DASP intervention. Roads are being/have been selected on the
basis of agreed screening criteria which would help in opening up of new areas by linking unconnected Minimum



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 45
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                             Annex 2
Needs Program (MNP) villages selected according to their population size.(generally above 1000 ). Villages
situated within two kilometers from an existing all weather road are presumed to be connected for this purpose. The
selection criteria give preference to roads through cultivable areas growing perishable crops and roads in areas where
project intervention is most intensive. Roads perfected for improvement would have no or minimal adverse
environmental impact. The selection process involves participation by the beneficiary village communities. Almost
all the roads would be improved on the existing alignments where little or no additional land is required to complete
the improvement work. However, in some locations it is possible that a small amount of land may be required where
either old road embankments are being reconstructed to their original slope or where some widening is being
undertaken or where some smoothening of a curve is being done. GOUP has advised that, as has been the past
practice with rural roads, this land would be given voluntarily without any formal land acquisition because of the
strong interest by villagers in getting better roads. Land requirements would be ascertained by DASP and the district
administration in thie early stages of the road selection process. It has been agreed that a Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) would be signed with GOUP by all impacted families and the Village Bodies (Gram Sabha) of
the beneficiary villages. Only after completion of MOU that the civil works would be started. Where people are not
willing to sign MOIJs, such roads would not be taken up under the project.
To minimize the additional land requirements, wherever normal IRC rural roads standards related to design speed,
right of way, formation width and standards of curves are not achievable, and also for roads of lesser importance,
where higher standards are not necessary, the following adjusted "Functional standards" would be adopted:
Right of way = 9 meters in open area and 5 meters in built up area
Formation width = 6 meters
Carriageway width = 3 meters for A type and 3.75m for B type roads
CD works =7.5 meters width out to out of parapets for piped culverts
Design speed = 30 lKmph
Minimum radius of Curvature = 30 meters
The road works would be carried out as per Ministry of Surface Transport (MOST)/Indian Road Congress (IRC)
specifications. Most of the roads would be provided with the dust proofing treatment of double coat surface dressing.
In the built-up areas, stoneset or concrete pavement would be provided if there is danger of road inundation due to
poor drainage. Unless justified by projections based on the actual traffic counts, generally not more than 25 cm Water
Bound Macadam (WVBM) crust would be needed for these roads. It is also not proposed to provide top layer of WBM
with granite metal as is done on national highways before laying dust proofing treatment. The earthwork in
embankments would be compacted to 95 percent proctor density using 8 to 10 Ton Static Diesel Road Roller. In the
case of roads passing through black cotton soils, embankmnents would have at least 60 cm height and embankments, if
constructed with local soils, would be encased with a 15 cm thick gravel blanket coat.
The works would be executed by the Public Works Department (PWD) through its existing staff in the districts,
however the field di[visions selected for this job would not have other major responsibilities, DASP roads would the
main responsibility.
Other activities to be supported under this subcomponent would include: (a) preparation of a strategy for maintenance
of rural roads and support maintenance of the project roads; (b) training for PWD staff to strengthen capacity for road
maintenance; (c) consulting services for Technical examination and Quality of works during construction, and (d) a
study on socio-economic impact of roads subcomponent.
At negotiations assurances were obtained that with regards to improvement of the rural roads to be financed under
the project, GOUP would- (i) select roads and improve these according to criteria and technical standards agreed
with IDA/Bank; (ii) maintain them in accordance with the action plans, consistent with the maintenance policy to be
finalized by GOUP by December 31, 1998; (iii) no later than December 31, 1998 employ consultants under terms of
reference agreed with IDA/Bank to inspect and verify the technical quality of roads improved; and (iv) where
additional land is requiredfor road improvement, as has been the past practice in the state, ensure that this is
provided by local communities voluntarily in accordance with a MOU to be signed between GOUP (concerned
District Magistrate or his nominee) and all affected members of the participating community; and (v) would not
commence improvement of roads in locations where private land is needed until such MOUs have been concluded.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 46
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                               Annex 2
(b)    Rural Markets. The main focus of this sub-component would be to improve the village markets (Haat Painths)
with high volume through put which largely benefit small farmers. The project would support the upgrading of upto 145
existing high operating frequency rural Haat Painths managed by the Panchayats. The Directorate of Panchayati Raj
would oversee implementation of this sub-component. The project would assist with the design, construction and/or
upgrading of existing infrastructure facilities. Separate development plans would be prepared for each market in
consultation with Panchayats and potential beneficiaries. Prior to the commencement of works, each participating
Panchayat would sign a Memorandum of Understanding with the Directorate of Panchayat Raj regarding
establishment of a dedicated account where service fees collected from the Haat Painth would be kept to finance
operation and maintenance as well as future expansion of facilities. In addition, the project would provide funds to
upgrade and expand facilities at: (a) a selected number of cattle markets managed by District level elected bodies (Zilla
Parishads); and (b) two Mandi Parishad (Market Board) market yards in priority horticultural development areas to
demonstrate modem storage and handling facilities for perishable produce Exact site and design for the fruit and
vegetable markets would be finalized through an international consultancy during implementation. In addition, the
project would assist the Directorate of Agricultural Marketing through technical assistance, training and equipment to
improve its program of price data collection and dissemination at a selected number of market centers.
Component 5. Supportfor Project Management and Economic Analysis Unit
12.    Activities to be supported would include:
(a)    Project Coordination Unit (PCU). Project management would be the responsibility of the PCU, already
established under the office of the Agricultural Production Commissioner (APC), headed by a senior official at the level
of Secretary to GOUP, designated Project Coordinator. Implementation of project activities in districts would be
facilitated by District Project Coordination Units (DPCUs). DPCUs would only be established in districts with a
minimum of three DASP component/sub-component interventions. The project would finance secondment of staff from
line departments for the duration of the project, training, office equipment, furniture and other facilities for establishment
and operation of the PCU and DPCUs.
(b)    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). The project would fund concurrent M&E ofthe project, including socio-
economic impact studies by Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow (IIML). IIML is currently providing similar
support to another Bank assisted project (UP Sodic Lands Reclamation Project) and has developed expertise in this area.
To guarantee effectiveness and assist with the establishment of a permanent capacity in the State for this type of work,
GOUP has agreed with .IIML management to support establishment of an Agricultural Management Center (AMC).
AMC would be contracted to undertake the project work. AMC would also offer support for the design and
implementation of the monitoring system to be operated by the PCU with input from the participating agencies. As
part of the agreed work plan AMC would: (a) assist PCU and the line departments in preparing annual action plans,
along with an implementation schedule, at the department/district levels; (b) develop a computerized project
management system for project monitoring; (c) help identify training needs/gaps and prepare plans to meet them; (d)
carry out evaluation studies, including beneficiary assessments, at agreed periodic intervals. Key development
objectives indicators are presented in Annex 1. If required, the list of indicators agreed at appraisal, would be further
refined by the PCU and participating line departments in consultation with AMC during design and implementation of
the M&E system.
(c)    Establishment of an Economic Policy Analysis Unit (EPA U). Project would assist with the establishment of
EPAU to enhance state's capacity to develop and analyze impact of agricultural policies on rural development. This
unit would operate from PCU and advise the APC on future policy directions to address the changing needs of states
rural sector. EPAU would also develop capacity to critically evaluate public expenditures in agriculture with a view
to making recommendations on improving the efficiency of investments being made using public resources. The
initial focus of EPAU's work program would assess the impact of the policy reform program being supported under
the project. The project would finance training, equipment, and incremental staff and operational costs.
At negotiations assurances were obtained that by December 31, 1998 GOUP would: (i) establish the Economic Policy
Analysis Unit (EPA U) with key staff whose qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA/Bank; and (ii) each year
commencingfrom December 31, 1998 EPA U's annual work program would be agreed with IDA/Bank.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                         Page 47
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                                    Annex 2/Attachment I
UTTAR PRADESH DIVERSIFIED AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
DRAFT POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORM MATRIX
Issue                     | Effect                       Proposed Change                      Action
Subsidized provision of    Private sector participation  Phase in full cost recovery for selected    Reforms to be done
agricultural inputs and    limited in goods and services  publicly provided goods and services.    By March 31, 2002 GOUP will phase in full cost recovery
services by public sector.  subsidized by the public sector.                                  for selected goods and services (see Annex 2 attachment 2)
including:
Inadequate coverage, quality and                                   Livestock: Fodder seed, artificial insemination, natural
delivery of subsidized inputs and                                  service, castration, health examination and treatment,
services.                                                         inoculation, post mortem, feed analysis, diagnostic services.
Contributes to fiscal imbalances.                                  Horticulture: Vegetable seed, fruit seedlings and fruit
plants.
Sericulture: Chawki reared worms.
Full cost for the above goods and services will be
determined annually by GOUP and these cost calculations
will be made available to IDA/Bank by June 30 following
the fiscal year to which they apply.
Loss making state owned    Inefficient use of resources.  Privatize government owned farms after  Reforms completed
farms.                                                   retaining those deemed necessary for  GOUP has agreed in principle for privatization/
Contributes to fiscal imbalances.  research and verification purposes.  economically viable operation of loss making state owned
farms.
500 acres of government owned land leased to a private
seed company (1994).
Reforms to be done
Various modalities are being considered separately by each
department. Final decisions are expected to be different in
each department, but are likely to be made without undue
delay.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                Page 48
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                                          Annex 2/Attachment I
Issue                        Effect                          Proposed Change                       Action
Limited private sector role in   Poor client orientation, weak  Establish a research corpus in GOUP to   Reforms completed
technology generation.       priority setting and decline in  finance selected research activities on a   Competitive Grants Program for Agricultural Research
research investment.            competitive basis.                    (CGPAR) established at UP Council of Agricultural
Research (UPCAR) in June 97.
Reforms to be done
UPCAR to finalize operational modalities and initial
priority research areas by negotiations.
Limited private sector role in   Poor client orientation, weak  Introduce extension delivery        Reforms completed
technology dissemination.    delivery systems and lack of    mechanisms that include NGOs, private   About 1000 private para-veterinarians from among
accountability of public sector    sector, and beneficiary participation  unemployed youth trained and working in animal health
extension service.             with cost sharing arrangements and     care.
gradually replace lower level extension
workers with trained farmer           Reforms to be done
organizations.                        Under the project DOA, DOH, AHD and DOS with the
help of NGOs will identify and train farmer organizations
for undertaking extension activities in pilot districts. In
addition, 1800 para-vets will be identified and trained
under the project.
..... ....                                        .....
Administratively determined   Uneconomic charges leading to    Deregulate rates under the UP Cold  Reforms completed
ceilings on cold storage     decline in number of cold stores   Storage Act, 1976.                 UP Cold Storage Act amended to eliminate price ceilings
charges.                    in the state.                                                          for cold stores (April 1997).
Absence of cold stores inhibits
agricultural diversification.
Land ceilings prohibit      Inhibits greater private sector  Review and relax the UP Land Ceiling    Reforms completed
purchase of more than 12.5    participation in seed production   Act to enable purchase of agricultural    Agro-Industrial Policy allows divisional commissioners to
acres of agricultural land by    and other agro-industrial  land in excess of ceiling limit.       permit purchase/lease of land for industrial purposes in
an individual or firm,       activity.                                                             excess of ceiling limit on a case by case basis (1995).
Inhibits agricultural
diversification and value
addition.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                          Page 49
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                                     Annex 2/Attachment I
Issue                      Effect                         Proposed Change                      Action
Restrictive licensing      Development of private sector    Eliminate restrictive provisions in  Reforms completed
requirement for private    nurseries inhibited.           licensing policies.                  Licensing for private nursery producers relaxed from 1 year
nurseries.                                                                                     to 3 years by amending the UP Fruit Nurseries Control
Order, 1976. Renewal powers decentralized to district
horticulture officers (1996).
Dual pricing for sugarcane    Increases administrative costs,    Elimninate dual pricing structure for  Reforms completed
molasses.                  encourages leakage and distorts   molasses.                         Dual pricing for molasses abolished in November 1997.
resource allocation.
Inadequate funding for O&M   Rural roads suffer from      Articulate a clear and comprehensive  Reforms completed
of rural roads.            inadequate maintenance.        policy for rural roads including O&M  GOUP has prepared a draft 'Road Development Policy' for
funding and implementation.         the roads sector.
Reforms to be done
GOUP's cabinet sub-committee is formulating a Rural
Roads Maintenance Policy which is expected to be ready
by negotiations.
Excessive government       The actual players -- traders and   Ensure greater representation of traders   Reforms to be done
involvement in management  farmers -- have limited role in    and farmers in the operation of village    Operation and maintenance of haat painths (local village
of rural markets.          running of markets.            level (haat painths) and regulated   markets) to be handed over to village Panchayats. MOU to
(mandis) markets.                    be signed between GOUP and Panchayats for this purpose
Inadequate attention paid to                                        has been developed.
O&M of markets.
Separate regulatory role of the      Elections to Mandi Samitis will be held by December 31,
Agriculture Marketing Directorate from   1998.
its day to day managing of mandis.
With support from the project, the Agriculture Marketing
Directorate is to strengthen market intelligence activities in
Ensure adequate funding for operation    Mandi Parishad.
and maintenance of mandis from money
collected via market fees.           Complete a study of the UPKUMSA to assess whether
individual mandis are retaining adequate market fees to
ensure proper O&M.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                       Page 50
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                                  Annex 2/Attachment I
Issue                      Effect                       Proposed Change                      Action
Weak community             Lack of community ownership    Phased decentralization/devolution of    Reforms completed
participation in planning and   and commitment to assets  administrative and fmancial        Elections to all tiers of Panchayat Raj institutions
maintenance of rural       created.                     responsibility to Panchayats         completed in 1995. State Election Commission established
infrastructure.                                         administration.                      to ensure timely conduct of future elections.
Inadequate O&M of rural
infrastructure.                                                   Report of the Administrative Reform Commission on
decentralization and devolution of administrative authority
accepted by GOUP. As part of an ongoing process, 21
GOUP departments including the Departments of
Agriculture, Animnal Husbandry, Dairy Development, Rural
Development, Panchayat Raj and Minor Irrigation have
issued orders devolving greater administrative authority to
Panchayats whereby district department officers would
work under the functional control of district Panchayats
(1997). In certain cases the financial authority for
construction and O&M of rural infrastructure (for instance
rural village markets) has also been fully transferred to
elected village bodies.
Reforms to be done
Recommendations of the State Finance Commission Report
on financial allocations of levies and taxes between the
State and Panchayats under consideration by GOUP and
expected to be finalized by March 31, 1998.
..... . .    .
Sericulture production and  Silk production stagnating.  Eliminate government monopoly over    Reforms completed
marketing.                                              procurement of cocoon.               GOUP monopoly purchase of cocoons discontinued in
Limited private sector                                            1994.
involvement in cocoon and silk   Establish appropriate legal and
marketing.                   regulatory framework to ensure fair  DOS placed under the Agricultural Production
competition and enforcement of quality   Commissioner wing.
Inadequate quality and grading   standards.
standards.                                                       Reforms to be done
Establish funding mechanism to increase  Provide an appropriate legal and regulatory framework by
Sericulture not integrated with   financing for sericulture research and  enacting the UP Silk Industry Development Act by March
other agricultural activities.  extension and O&M of cocoon and yam   31, 1999.
markets.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                          Page 51
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                                     Annex 2/Attachment I
Issue                      Effect                         Proposed Change                      Action
As part of the UP Silk Industry Development Act, establish
Improve linkage of DOS with other    a Sericulture Development Fund by imposing a 'cess' in
agricultural departments.            cocoon and yarn markets to fnance research, extension,
and O&M of markets.
Reduce number of DOS owned farms.
15 DOS farms identified for privatization (see above issue
on state owned farms).
Unclear public/private roles   Inadequate and poor quality  Only breeder and foundation stage  Reforms completed
in production of horticulture   planting material.        planting material/seed to be produced by  Directives issued by DOA and DOH (1996).
planting material.                                        public sector; certified material by
private sector.
Forest Act constrains      New and improved varieties     Allow pruning/uprooting of perennial    Reforms completed
replanting of old orchards by   cannot replace old and aging  fruit crops for replanting purposes.  GOUP simplified procedures by authorizing District
prohibiting cutting and    varieties.                                                          Horticulture Officer to permit felling of old trees and
transport of trees.                                                                             District Forest Ranger to permit transport of timber (1996).
Institutional problems with    Low priority to fodder     Integrate fodder production with other    Reforms completed
responsibility for fodder  extension.                     crop production activities.           Extension responsibility for fodder production transferred
production.                                                                                    from AHD to DOA (1996).
Fodder production not integrated
into farming system.
Shortage of green fodder
Collateral/land            Limits access of poor to       Raise lower limit for bank loans seeking  Reforms completed
mortgage/stamp duty        agricultural credit.           collateral.                          Limit raised from Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 25,000 by
requirements for agricultural                                                                  NABARD/RBI (1996).
credit.                     Stamp duty on land mortgages
offered as collateral for bank  Increase exemption limit on stamp duty   Statnp duty exemption limit raised from Rs. 20,000 to Rs.
loans increases cost of loan for   for bank loans.                  45,000 by GOUP (1997).
small farmers.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                               Page 52
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                  Page 53
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                            Annex 2/Attachment I
TABLE: UPDASP AGREED COST RECOVERY SCHEDULE
Item                     Full      Existing Percent Cost   Percent Cost  Percent Cost    Percent Cost   Percent Cost
Cost       Fee      Recovery      Recovery     Recovery          Recovery        Recovery
(Rs.)     (Rs.)      Existing    March 1999    March 2000       March 2001    March 2002
Veg. seed (Rs/kg)
Okra                      98.00     47.00        48             65            85          100
Onion                     82.00     40.00        49             55            70          100
Cauliflower              245.50    112.04         46            60             80          100
Pea                       45.00     24.32        54             75           100
Tomato                   783.00    365.00        47             60            80          100
Brinjal                  762.00    338.00        44             60            80           100
Potato                     7.00      7.00       100
Fruit plants (Rs/kg)
Mango                     12.00     10.00        83            100
Guava                     10.00      8.00        80            100
Banana suckers             3.00      2.00        67            100
Citrus                     8.00      6.00        75            100
Aonla                     12.00     10.00        83            100
Litchi                    12.00     10.00        83            100
Fruit seedlings (Rs/kg)
Mango                      3.00      2.00        67            100
Citrus                     3.00      2.00        67            100
Guava                      3.00      2.00        67            100
Papaya                     3.00      2.00        67            100
.~~~..   .~~~~...... .~~.. .....
:.:.....,:.' . ..~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~.. .              .
..    ......    .                                           Ki       K.,. . ..~....'.....
Frozen Semnen (per         7.00      5.00        71             90                        100
straw)
Liquid Nitrogen (per       8.00      8.00       100
litre)
Fodder Seed (per kg)
- Jowar                  19.78     17.00        86                                       100
Artificial Insemination:
- atHQ                   17.00      5.00        29             50                         80             100
- at doorstep            24.00     20.00        83                          100
Natural Service (per service):
- Cow/buffalo            75.00      5.00         7             40            70          100
- Stallion/donkey       100.00     25.00        25             55            85          100
- Buck                    5.00      1.00        20             40            70          100
- Boar                    5.00      0.00         0             25            65          100
Castration:
- At HQ -large            3.00      2.00           67          87           100
- At doorstep-large       4.00      2.00           50          75           100
- At HQ-small             2.00      1.00           50          75           100
- At doorstep -small      1.50      1.00           67          87           100



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                  Page 54
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                            Annex 2/Attachment I
Item                     Full      Existing Percent Cost   Percent Cost  Percent Cost    Percent Cost   Percent Cost
Cost       Fee      Recovery      Recovery     Recovery           Recovery       Recovery
(Rs.)     (Rs.)      Existing    March 1999    March 2000       March 2001      March 2002
Treatment:
- Large animal            1.00      1.00          100
- Sheep/goat/pig          0.50      0.25           50          75           100
- Dog/cat                 2.00      2.00          100
Inoculation:
- H.S/B.Q                 1.90      1.00           53          73            93           100
- R.P.                    1.34      1.00           75          90                         100
- RD.                     0.24      0.05           21          40            70           100
- Fowl Pox                0.20      0.05           25          45            70           100
- Swine Fever             8.25      0.25            3          30            60           100
- Enterotoxaemia          1.55      0.25           16          35            65           100
- Sheep Pox               0.50      0.25           50                       100
Post Mortem:
- Large                 100.00      0.00            0          30            60          80             100
- Small                  20.00      0.00            0          30            60           100
- Poultry                 5.00      0.00            0          50                        100
Health examination:
- Large                  50.00      0.00            0          30            60           100
- Small                  20.00      0.00            0          25            60          100
Feed analysis'            50.00      0.00            0          30            60          100
Diagnostic service
- Blood                  10.00      0.00            0          30            60           100
- Faecal                  5.00      0.00            0          50           100
- Urine                   5.00      0.00            0          50           100
Chawki reared worms      270.00    100.00           37          50            75          100
(per 100 dfls)
Soil Testing              10-12      2-00           17          35            60           80             100
(N.P.K.)
(a) Micro Nutrients      35=00        Nil            -           -              -      At present it
(for so Mapping)                                                                       is being
Zn, Cu, Fe, Mg, etc.                                                                   undertaken
as a
Promotional
(b) For farmers                                                                        activity in
bringing samples to                                                                   future cost
laboratory themselves                                                                  recovery
tab: no fee charges                                                                    will be
started.
Rhyzobium packet           5.50      4.00         72%           80            100
Culture (250 gin)
Pesticides distribution               100                                       -



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 55
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultiral Support Project                             Annex 2/Attachment 2
IJTTAR PRADESH DIVERSIFIED AGRICULTURE SUPPORT PROJECT
CRITERIA FOR RESEARCH PROGRAM EVALUATION
1.    Selection criteria for research to be financed under UPDASP would be the same as those agreed for the
Bank assisted National Agricultural Technology Project (NATP).
2.    The following is an agreed listing of what were considered the key questions that the research reviewers
would be expected to answer:
Overall
1.    How well does the proposal fit within the stated priorities and strategy for the given production system?
Scientific Merit
1.    Is the overall presentation and logic of the proposal sound; are the objectives and hypotheses appropriate
and clear?
2.    Has a sound justification been given, in particular does the proposal provide evidence that it is addressing
high priority problems.
3.    Is the work innovative?
4.    Is there evidence of relevant literature review?
5.    Are the research methods and experimental treatments appropriate to the problem?
6.    Is there an adequate implementation workplan including milestones to track progress?
Researchers and Research Infrastructure
1.    Do the researchers have the skills to complete the research satisfactorily? (This would not be covered by
the researcher in the application but would be assessed by the reviewers on the basis of their knowledge and
experience of the team)
2.    Is research infrastructure adequate for this proposal?
3.    Are the resources provided or requested adequate and realistic?
Evidence of New Directions
1.    Does the proposal show evidence of using a multi-disciplinary approach including social scientists where
appropriate?
2.    Is there evidence of a systems approach involving more than one commodity or enterprise?
3.    Is there evidence of involvement of potential beneficiaries?



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 56
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                   Annex 2/Attachment 2
Expected Impacts
1.     Have the expected outputs been explicitly described and/or quantified e.g. depending on the type of
research in terms of: impact on sustainability, hectares expected to be impacted, number of farm families, livestock
head, etc. at realistic ultimate full adoption levels?
2.     To what extent have the concerns of the small and marginal farmers been taken into account, particularly
with respect to Production Systems Research?
3.     To what extent have gender issues been taken into account in the proposal?
4.     What is the justification for public expenditure? Is the proposal backed by economic analysis? Is it
research that would be highly unlikely to be taken up or be better done by the private sector? Is it research that
might be taken up or be better done by the private sector? Is it research that would be very likely to be taken up or
be better done by the private sector?
5.     Is there any linkage outlined in proposals on PSR about eventual dissemination of research results? (this
may not be possible in many cases until near to the time of release/recommendation).
6.     Are there any other unique features which justify the proposed research?



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                              Page 57
India - U.P. Diversificd Agricultural Support Project                                                                         Annex 2/Attachment 3
UTrAR PRADESH DIVERSIFIED AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Activity Matrix by Sub-Sectors to Establish a Demand Driven Technology Dissemination System
Component Theme                                                     Activity in the Sub-Sector
Livestock                  Horticulture                 Sericulture                     Agriculture
(i) Rationalization and
reorientation ofpublic
extension services.
(a) Support for capacity                           *  Support for capacity      .  Capacity building in the    *  Capacity building in the DOA to
building of the Line   *  Capacity building in     building in the DOH          Department of Sericulture will  disseminate improved knowledge on
Departments to initiate a  existing the AH institutions    institutions to provide training   be supported with equipment,  crop management systems, including
farming systems        (Departmental Headquarters,   and demonstrations through:    vehicles, training for staff,  land and water resource management
approach to technology   central and regional diagnostic  Horticulture Implementation    workshops, and consultant  practices through:
dissemination.        laboratories, PCDF, NGO) to    Unit and District horticulture   services              0  Integrated nutrient management
enable them to provide      offices will be provided with    .  Seven technology        (INM) and integrated pest
knowledge based technologies  assistance in equipment,  dissemination centers will be   management (IPM) to farms will
to farmers.                 vehicles and in operations &  established over the project  be made. Provision for equipment,
*   Assist in re-deployment,   maintenance.             period to provide technical and  farm visits, staff, farmers training,
training, workshops, study  *  DOH farms (12 farms in   training support to NGOs and    and demonstrations.
tours, library support and  total from the plains and the    farmers.                0  Monitoring and evaluation of the
purchase of essential       hills as demonstration centers)  *  Input supply            impact of INM and IPM
equipment. This support     will be strengthened through    improvement.                techniques.
would be made available at    the provision of equipment and  *  Enlargement of      0  The capacity of the Department of
Directorate, Headquarters   materials.                  infrastructure. (New silkworm   agriculture and the district
District, Block and Naya    *  Facilities at State      grainages, 4 silk worm          agriculture offices will be
Panchayat levels.           Agricultural Universities   production centers, 4 P2 seed   strengthened with support for
*  AHD implementation unit  (SAUs), Horticulture        farms and I P3 seed farm) will  equipment, furniture, vehicles,
will be supported to implement Technology Dissemination  be provided with resources for  training, technical assistance as
project activities.         Center (HTDCs), and         land development, buildings     well as in O&M.
Horticulture Post-Harvest   and all necessary equipment.
Technology Centers and Sub-   For the production,
Centers (HPHTCs and         multiplication and supply of
HPHTSCs), will be upgraded   silkworm eggs and improved
with civil works, equipment    quality mother stock.
and materials and provide   *  Marketing and processing
training to small scale     of increased private production
entrepreneurs.              will be facilitated by support to
the 3 cocoon markets, cocoon
drying center and the silk



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                Page 58
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                                          Annex 2/Attachment 3
Component Theme                                                          Activity in the Sub-Sector
Livestock                    Horticulture                   Sericulture                       Agriculture
exchange.
*   Demonstrations on
improved post-harvest
management practices,
including establishment of
model cool chains would be
supported
*   A pilot study on remote
sensing to detennine the area
under mango cultivation will
be conducted within the Dept.
of Horticulture. This will
facilitate timely provision of
information on prices/demand
to farmers. A desk review of
the horticulture crops data
collection and dissemination
system will also be funded
through the project.
(b) Decentralization of    Decision making will be    *   Same                       *   Same                      *   Same
technical and managerial  transferred to the District and
decision-making.        Block levels. To coordinate
technical and managerial
decision-making at district
level two new institutional
arrangements will be rested:
* District Technology
Teams under administrative
control of the District
Magistrate.
* On a pilot basis in two
districts project would assist in
the establishment of
Agricultural Technology
Management Agencies
(ATMA).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                    Page 59
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                                              Annex 2/Attachment 3
Component Theme                                                            Activity in the Sub-Sector
Livestock                     Horticulture                   Sericulture                         Agriculture
Project will provide resources
for thesefrom the current
district level extension
allocations.
(ii) Increasing the role of  *   Private sector role in input  *   Private sector role in the    *   Private sector role will be   *   There are no specific investment
the private sector in input  supply, animal health and  supply of inputs and marketing   enhanced by training, capacity   activities, but the focus is on policy
supply and support       breeding services will be      will be enhanced through the    building in production,        changes to encourage greater private
services.                enhanced through support for:  following activities:           rearing, and reeling through   sector participation in input supply,
0   Private veterinary clinics    0   Private nurseries will be    the following activities:  especially seed production, marketing
(start-up assistance,          promoted and assisted      0   Facilitating institutional  and fertilizer distribution.
technical assistance, travel   through a new nursery          credit and technical
costs); to provide better      establishment manual,          assistance to private
health care service to        training, as well as mother     silkworm producers.
livestock owners.              plant material and         0   NGOs will be engaged to
0   Private para-vets (liquid      demonstration of good          set up Growth Stimulation
nitrogen containers,           nursery management             Centers (GSCs).
Al/AH kits, Assistance         practices.                 0   NGOs through the GSCs
with restocking, and       0   Health care service to         will guide and train
training); to provide for-    livestock owners,               producers to establish
fee artificial insemination    Horticulture Post-Harvest      private Chawki Rearing
and primary health care        Technology Centers             Centers.
services.                      (HPHTCs) and               0   GSCs will provide
0   Support conservation and       Horticulture Post-Harvest      potential project
improvement of local           Technology Sub-Centers         participants with basic
breeds of cattle, buffalo,     (HPHTSCs) to train DOH         training in production
sheep and goat through         staff and small scale         techniques and access to
private breeder's              entrepreneurs in fresh and     support services.
associations.                  processed handling of      0   Private sector
*   A study will be financed       output.                        participation in processing
to develop a strategy to       0   Demonstration and              activities will be
privatize the Veterinary           training in post-harvest       encouraged through
Institute of Biologicals.          technology.                    training in reeling
*   The quality of dairy                                          activities.
products will be enhanced                                     0   Marketing of increased
through the provision of health                                   production would be
and hygiene kits to milk                                          through private trade.
vendors and farmers.                                          0   Training in reeling and
entrepreneurship



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                            Page 60
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                                      Annex 2/Attachment 3
Component Theme                                                        Activity in the Sub-Sector
Livestock                   Horticulture                  Sericulture                      Agriculture
development to investors
in reeling activities.
It is expected that in the long
term the private sector would
be able to engage in input
supply.
(iii) Enhance the       *   Farming community        *   Same as for livestock (the  *   Same as for livestock (the  *   Same as for livestock (the involved
participation of farming   participation will be enhanced   involved line department will  involved line department will  line department will be DOA). Both
communities.            by establishing voluntary self-  be DOH). Both SHGs and GCs  be DOS). The groups formed    SHGs and CGs will be formed. Special
help-groups (SHGs) and       will be formed.              will most likely be only SHGs   attention will be given to the rainfed
commodity groups (CGs).                                   as different commodities are    agriculture of Bundelkhand region and
NGOs in collaboration with                                 not involved. In place of CGs,  eastern U.P. to focus on their specific
Line Department extension                                 GSCs will organize potential    needs.
workers will coordinate. The                              project participants into
project will:                                             functional groups.
0   Train self help group
representatives and
members.
0   Train trainers and offer
workshops for NGOs.
0   Strengthen line
departments through
workshops.
0   Provide communication
and information materials to
inform and motivate farmers
to join groups.
(iv) Support for human    *   SAU directorates of    *   SAU directorates of       *   SAU directorates of      *   State Extension Training Institute
resource development    extension will be strengthened   extension will be strengthened   extension will be strengthened  (SETI) will be upgraded to a State
and enhanced            to provide technical         to provide technical         to provide technical          Agricultural Management and
communications         information and participate in  information and participate in  information and participate in   Extension Training Institute (SAMETI)
capacity.              technical training for KVK    technical training for KVK    technical training for KVK   to provide professional skill training to
trainers and district level  trainers and district level  trainers and district level   KVK trainers and SMSs in
SMSs. The project will       SMSs. The project will        SMSs. The project will       participatory rural appraisal techniques
provide:                     provide:                     provide:                      (PRAs), strategic extension planning
0   SAU directorates of      0  SAU directorates of       0  SAU directorates of    (SEP) and FA group formation



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                            Page 61
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                                      Annex 2/Attachment 3
Component Theme                                                        Activity in the Sub-Sector
Livestock                   Horticulture                  Sericulture                      Agriculture
extension (3) with           extension (3)with            extension (3) with      procedures. The Project will provide to
equipment and vehicles.      equipment and vehicles,      equipment and vehicles.  SAMETI and State Institute for Rural
0  Staff training in         0  Staff training in         0  Staff training in       Development (SIRD) with:
farming systems and          farming systems and          farming systems and        0  Civil works, equipment,
computers as well as         computers as well as         computers as well as           vehicles, dormitory and
initial study tours.        initial study tours.          initial study tours.           classroom furniture etc.
0  DOAH will be              0  DOH will be supported     0  DOS will be supported      0  Training of trainers courses in
supported to enhance        to enhance their training     to enhance their training      PRAs, computer skills.
their training and           and communications           and communications         0  Minimal necessary incremental
communications               capacity.                    capacity.                      staff (extension management,
capacity.                                                                                associate professors, computer
Training will be provided                                                                  network specialist and
to milk vendors, farmers as                                                                    library/electronic manager).
well as milk and food                                                                      0  Farmer organization through
inspectors to enhance their                                                                    domestic and international
public health awareness.                                                                       study tours.
* SAU directorates of extension will
be strengthened to provide technical
information and participate in technical
training for KVK trainers and district
level SMSs. The project will provide:
0  SAU directorates of extension
(3) with equipment and vehicles.
0   Staff training in farming
systems and computers as well as
initial study tours.
0 DOA will be supported to
enhance their training and
communications capacity.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                  Page 62
India - UP. Diversified Agricultural Support Project



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 63
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                   Annex 2/Attachment 4
UTTAR PRADESH DIVERSIFIED AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
NGO PARTICIPATION AND SELECTION CRITERIA
A. Role of NGOs
1.            NGOs would play the key role in mobilizing the farming communities and forming them into groups and
providing on-going support to sustain them. In this process the primary role of the NGO would be to motivate farmers and to
provide them with opportunities to acquire the skills necessary to manage their own affairs. NGOs would follow participatory
processes to promote self-reliance.
2.     The full scope of the support to be provided by the NGO staff would cover:
(a)    Identifying affinity groups.
(b)    Forming Self-Help Groups (SHGs) and/or Commodity Associations.
(c)    Guiding groups in the formulation of savings and credit procedures and liaising with local lending
institutions.
(d)    Providing training to group members and group representatives
(f)   Ih the case of SHGs, maintaining the group accounts and minutes for first 12 months (if no suitable person
from within the group or community can be found initially), and training of a group member or local person
to maintain the accounts thereafter.
(g)    Auditing group accounts half-yearly in the first year and thereafter annually.
(h)    Assisting SHGs in community consultation to establish priorities for social programs and submission of
proposals to WDC district office.
(i)    Assisting groups with the organization of cluster level meetings as per the interest of the groups and later
with formation of associations of clusters; and
(j)    Supporting common action programs and lobbying activities of SHGs.
B. NGOs (Support Orgainization) Eligibility Criteria
3.     The PCU would select Support Organizations (NGOs) according to the following criteria:
(a)    Legal Status: evidence of legal registration.
(b)    Constitution: constitutional provision to engage in agriculture production, farmer mobilization and related
allied activities.
(c)    Track record: proven track record of at least three years experience in activities to agriculture, horticulture,
anirnal health, sericulture development and farmer's groups formation.
(d)    Finance: accounts audited and certified by a chartered accountant;
(e)    Staff.  demonstrated staffing capacity to carry out the proposed services or ability to procure such staffing
capacity.
4.     After advertisement, NGOs will be prequalified by PCU based on the above criteria.
5.     In addition, during field visits, PCU/DPCU staff will conduct a review which would include a detailed manpower
assessment (with reference to staff needed for implementing the TOR of NGOs) the type and availability of existing staff to
work on the project and an assessment of other resources which the NGO could bring to the project. Discussion of fnancial
turnover and expected commitments will also be reviewed to determine the impact and level of schemes which the NGO
would be capable of implemnenting. In order to further rank NGOs, the following qualitative scale will be used to assign



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 64
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                        Annex 2/Attachment 4
points. NGOs not achieving at least 65 points would be disqualified from those meeting basic criteria. The criteria must be
independently assessed by at least three staff, with the average score used as the basis for decision making.
6.     The PCU will be responsible to shortlist NGOs. The shortlist along with the eligibility criteria will subsequently be
forwarded to the Chief Development Officer (CDO) for review and comments. The CDO's comments will proceed with the
final pre-qualification; if received within stipulated period.
Characteristics                      Available Points           Scored Points
Purpose/intention suitable for providing direct             10
services to communities.
Experiences of grassroot support, specifically:
-  Previous activities in the areas of Agriculture/         20
Horticulture/Animal Husbandry/Dairy/
Sericulture programs.
-  Previous experiences in Farmer's                         10
Mobilization/Self Help Group.
- Other activities related to Rural development             05
Methods/Skills
- skill in participatory methods and tools                  15
- Financial and record keeping skills                       10
- general management skills                                 10
Geographical Orientation and demonstrated loyalty           10
to particular communities over a period of time.
Continuity of leadership in development                     10
Total                                                      100
7.     Staff proposed by a pre-qualified NGO will be thoroughly assessed and evaluated during a training orientation. NGO
whose staff have been evaluated as weak would be required to propose other staff for the project period. Qualified NGOs
would then be oriented about the project and would be required to select one village in consultation with DPCU staff for
developing at least two Self Help Groups (SHGs).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 65
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                    Annex 2/Attachment S
UTTAR PRADESH DIVERSIFIED AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
1.     Introduction. UPDASP aims to accelerate the growth of diversified agriculture in UP in relation to agro-ecological
potential and market demand, with an emphasis on production systems and delivery mechanisms that benefit the rural poor and
other socially excluded groups. Four principal issues are of relevance in the social assessment of the project: (i) the
characteristics and distribution of the rural poor and other socially excluded groups (beneficiary assessment); (ii) design
considerations to ensure that the project reaches these beneficiaries, including participatory management aspects and NGO
involvement; (iii) preventive measures to ensure that child labor does not become an issue in future as silk production
supported by the project grows in importance; and (iv) measures to ensure that where land contributions for the upgrading of
rural roads under the project become necessary, these are truly voluntary.
Beneficiary assessment
2.     Poverty. UP has the largest number of poor people of all states in India. In 1987-88, almost half (48 percent) of the
rural population of UP was estimated to live below the official 'poverty line', which compares with 45 percent for India as a
whole and 41 per cent for South India.2 While the level of poverty in UP is high in general, there are wide variations between
regions. The Hills region, accounting for only four percent of total population, has the lowest incidence of rural poverty (eight
percent). The incidence of poverty increases within the plains along a gradient from west to east: there is substantially higher
poverty in the Eastern plains (43 percent) than in the Western plains (26 percent), with each region accounting for over a third
of total population. Agricultural wage rates in Eastern UP are as little as half those in Western UP
3.     The Bundelkhand region (accounting for only five percent of total population) is something of an anomaly, with
estimates of poverty varying widely depending on the criteria adopted. According to National Sample Survey data for 1987-
88 it appears to be the poorest region in UP, with half the rural population living below the poverty line. More recent estimates
using proxy indicators (agricultural wage rates, agricultural labor as a share of total population) suggest a much lower
incidence of poverty (less than 20 percent).
4.     Human well-being. The incidence of material poverty is undoubtedly high in UP, but for several decades it has more
or less matched the incidence of poverty in India as a whole. In terms of broader measures of human well-being, however, UP
performs much worse than the all-India average. Child mortality, for example, was 50 percent higher in UP than in India as a
whole in 1984. This discrepancy between material poverty and indicators of well-being is clearly reflected in regional
differences within UP. Contrary to popular belief, the distribution of poverty within UP is a rather poor predictor of regional
variations in well-being. In spite of the comparative prosperity and the lower incidence of material poverty in Western UP, the
region does little or no better than Eastern UP in terms of human development indicators. For example, Western UP has a
higher rate of child mortality than Eastern UP (particularly in the case of female children), and a higher level of fertility.
5.     Gender inequality. The gap between material poverty and indicators of well-being is widest on a number of gender-
disaggregated measures. The relative prosperity of Western UP has not been translated into improvements in human
development indicators for women. The sex ratio is substantially worse in Western UP (844) compared with Eastern UP
(925), largely reflecting higher female child mortality. Although very low in both regions, the female labor force participation
rate is substantially lower in Western UP (only 1.4 percent) than in Eastern UP (7.1 percent). This reflects the lower degree of
relative autonomy women experience within the household in Western UP as compared with Eastern UP and the
correspondingly greater strength of social norms and customs such as seclusion of women which are generally associated with
higher castes. Women's relative lack of autonomy within the household also translates into a more restricted role for women
in influencing public decision making in Western UP as compared with Eastern UP
6.     Caste and religion. The incidence of material poverty in UP is highest among scheduled castes, accounting for 21
percent of total population. An estimated 56 percent of the scheduled caste population in rural areas was living below the
poverty line in 1986-87, compared with 38 percent for other social groups. Scheduled castes form a greater share of total
2Owing to methodological shortcomings, such head-count estimates of poverty should be treated with caution: they vary
considerably even where the same data sets are used. The most recent published estimates of poverty in UP as a whole vary
from 35 to 48 percent.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 66
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                           Annex 2/Attachment 5
population in Central, Southern (26 percent in each case) and Eastern UP (21 percent) than in the Hills and Western UP (17
percent in each case). Scheduled tribes are negligible as a proportion of total population in the state (0.2 percent), and are
concentrated in only a few districts particularly in the Hills region. Around 83 percent of the total population of UP is Hindu,
and 16 percent Muslim, the latter being particularly well-represented in Western and Central UP Taken together, scheduled
castes and 'Other Backward Communities' make up about half the total Hindu population of UP
7.      Differences of religion and caste often reinforce gender disparities, and thereby contribute to regional disparities in
gender-disaggregated human development indicators. For example, while only 32 percent of the male scheduled caste
population is literate in UP as compared with a literacy rate of 48 percent for other males, the gender gap in literacy rates is
even starker among scheduled caste women, only eight percent of whom are literate as against 23 percent for other women. At
the same time, scheduled caste women are often better off than higher caste women in terms of their relative autonomy both
within the household and in public life. For example, the female labor force participation rate for SC women is around 12
percent, compared with only 6 per cent among other social groups. SC women make up a third of the total female workforce,
and are disproportionately represented in agriculture. Of those SC women who work, well over half are agricultural laborers.
Nevertheless, given the strong social sanction against women working outside the home, even among the poor, access to
income earning opportunities for women will most significantly be increased through home-based employment.
8.      Agricultural land holdings. In 1990-91, 90 per cent of the 20.1 million operational land holdings in UP were small
or marginal holdings (less than 2 ha), accounting for over half the total operated area. Three quarters of total operational
holdings accounting for around a third of the total operated area were marginal holdings (less than I ha), and over half of all
operational holdings were less than 0.5 ha in size. The average size of land holding was 0.90 ha.
9.      Over the period 1985-86 to 1990-91, the rate of increase in the total number of operational holdings in UP (5.7 per
cent) was exceeded by the rural population growth rate (8.5 percent). Since total operated area was extended by only 1.9
percent, the increase in operational holdings has been achieved largely through subdivision, and in smaller part as a result of
the redistribution of public (panchayat) land. The number of small and marginal holdings increased by 5 percent and 7.5
percent respectively between 1985-86 and 1990-91, while their total area increased by 7 and 13 percent over the same period.
In all other size classes, the number and total area of operational holdings declined over this period, with the most marked
decline in the case of large holdings.
10.    Land holdings belonging to scheduled castes (SCs) and scheduled tribes (STs) make up 16 per cent and 0.2 percent
respectively of total operational holdings in UP The total number of operational holdings of STs is in direct proportion to their
share of total population, and at 1.8 ha, the average size of their land holdings is twice the UP average of 0.90 ha. The share of
total operational holdings belonging to scheduled castes, however (16 percent), is significantly smaller than their share of total
population (21 percent), and their share of total operated area is even smaller (10 percent).
11.    Scheduled castes make up a quarter of the rural population of UP yet account for around a third of total landless
households. Nearly half of all scheduled castes in agriculture are landless agricultural laborers. Among other social groups in
agriculture the rate of landlessness is less than 20 percent. Landlessness among SCs is particularly widespread in Central and
Eastern UP where, given the legacy of the zamindari land tenure system, the distribution of land holdings is more skewed.
Moreover, access to land via rental or lease markets is almost negligible: only 1.7 percent of SC households rent land holdings
for cultivation (although this proportion increased slightly between 1981 and 1991 owing to the redistribution of panchayat
land). Of those SCs who do own land, 95 percent operate only small or marginal land holdings, and the average size of land
holdings among SCs is only 0.57 ha.
Design features of UPDASP to beneflt socially excluded groups
12.    Responses to local diversity. The regional distribution of project activities, and the selection of particular blocks
within districts/ regions, generally takes account of the distribution of poor and disadvantaged groups as described above, as
well as prevailing agro-ecological conditions. The sericulture activities, for example, are concentrated in eight districts in the
Hills and Eastern/Central regions where conditions are well suited to mulberry cultivation and silkworm rearing. Other
activities, such as livestock and horticulture, are more evenly distributed throughout the state, with targeting on a block-by-
block basis rather than on a regional basis. While on head-count poverty indicators, the Eastern region unquestionably
qualifies for project support, there is also strong justification for targeted support to women, scheduled castes and other
disadvantaged groups in the relatively better-off Western region, given the fact that past development efforts in this region
have failed to translate consistently into improved human well-being for all.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 67
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                        Annex 2/Attachment 5
13.    In technology dissemination, the district-level strategic extension plans (SEPs) will provide an overall framework for
technology dissemination in a given district that is responsive to locally identified needs and priorities. The National
Agriculture Extension Management Institute (MANAGE), which has proven experience in participatory approaches to action-
research on farming and livelihood systems at national level, was engaged during project preparation to develop a 'model' SEP
based on best-practice methodologies. Field-testing has demonstrated the success of participatory needs identification and
priority setting by beneficiary groups and other stakeholders, including extension agents themselves. This validates the basic
approach of the SEPs in examining livelihood systems-level linkages between the various sub-sectors and line departments
involved in UPDASP (livestock, agriculture, horticulture, and sericulture), and has initiated a GOUP-level dialogue on
operational modalities to achtieve better coordination between individual line department work programs. Preparation of the
SEPs will be facilitated by subject matter specialists from the KVKs and line agencies, trained by experienced UP-based NGOs
including Manavodaya and the Gorakhpur Environmental Action Group (GEAG).
14.    Enhancing capabilities. It was recognized during project preparation that the commodity- and farming systems-
orientation of UPDASP's technology dissemination components should not be viewed in isolation from broader failures of
basic capabilities for socially excluded groups. For example, widespread illiteracy and the lack of relative autonomy for
women significantly constrain the capacity of lower caste people and Women to interact in the public sphere, benefit from
agricultural extension services, and access institutional credit. Significant cultural and behavioral barriers in UP's
conventional agricultural extension services militate against overcoming social exclusion: the predominance of higher caste,
male extension agents, for example, seriously constrains their ability to reach women and scheduled castes. Agreement has
been reached with GOUP to establish a Task Force to assess the present situation and prepare an extension program on gender
issues, with relevant NGO participation, and to implement the agreed program in consultation with IDA/Bank. A dated
covenant to this effect is included in the PAD.
15.    Self-targeting of project components. Certain components of the project are to some degree self-targeting, and stand
to benefit socially excluded groups at least as much as better-off farmers. The livestock and sericulture activities, in particular,
meet two requirements for socially excluded groups to benefit from the project: (i) they provide access to home-based income-
earnig opportunities for women secluded from public life; and (ii) they are not biased against those with little or no land.
Women are expected to represent some 60 per cent of the beneficiaries under these components, given the expectation of
significant adoption rates. Households with small or marginal land holdings are also likely to benefit from horticulture
activities, since fruit trees can be planted along plot boundaries or in home gardens.
16.    Livestock activities include small ruminants (sheep and goats), and cow and buffalo milk production. There is
substantial evidence from India that livestock production provides significant benefits to the poor, including those with little or
no land (provided they also have access to commons, cut fodder or crop residues). It was also found during project preparation
that a distinct caste in Eastern UP is associated with pig rearing, and have been marginalized from past development efforts.
This low-caste group is being specifically targeted through tailored support for pig rearing.
17.    The sericulture component involves mulberry cultivation and silkworm rearing. Although a minimum land holding
size (0.5 ha) is required for participation in mulberry cultivation activities, silkworm rearing is not a land-based activity and
does not exclude functionally landless families. Moreover, silkworm rearing, as a home-based activity, can easily be
combined with other household labor and child-care responsibilities, and is therefore particularly attractive to women.
18.    Participatory management and NGO involvement. The participatory management aspects of project design aimn
specifically to reach poor and disadvantaged groups through the intermediation of NGOs in fostering participation, and in
building appropriate community-based institutions with the capacity to make claims on agricultural extension services,
mobilize savings, and obtain institutional credit where appropriate. NGOs will play a key intermediary role in this process, as
trainers and catalysts in the formation of two types of grassroots farmer organizations: village-based women's savings and
credit Self-Help Groups (SHGs), and commodity groups (CGs)/ producer associations (PAs). SHGs are an institutional
innovation with demonstrable success in facilitating women's collective engagement in the development process. They have
the potential to enhance capabilities across a broad front including functional literacy, savings ability, access to institutional
credit and agricultural extension advice. CGs/PAs will be formed on a voluntary basis according to farmer demand, in specific
locations where farmers are predominantly involved in producing a single commodity (e.g. fruits, vegetables, pigs) and would
benefit from a collective approach to advancing their interests (e.g. in marketing or obtaining technical advice).
19.    Intermediary NGOs will form the interface between the commodity- and farming systems-based approach of the line



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 68
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                    Annex 2/Attachment 5
departments, and the broader needs-based approach implied in SHG/ CG/ PA formation, with the aim to foster convergence of
public action at village level. At least one local NGO with appropriate skills and experience (based on selection criteria agreed
during appraisal and set out in Attachment 4) will be engaged in each district, starting small in one or two blocks during the
first phase of implementation, and scaling up as appropriate, based on assessment through a concurrent process of participatory
monitoring and evaluation (M&E). The training needs of the intermediary NGOs in relation to technology dissemination will
be addressed in consultation with the relevant line departments, and could include training in financial management,
management of conflict and group dynamics, and leadership and facilitation skills.
20.    Several UP-based apex NGOs with extensive experience in training-of-trainers in participatory development (e.g.
Manavodaya, GEAG) will have three functions to support this participatory management approach: (i) capacity-building of
intermediary NGOs; (ii) training of line department staff in participatory learning and action, paying particular attention to
attitudes and behavior; and (iii) overall responsibility for the participatory M&E, paying particular attention to process
documentation and evaluation.
21.    Participatory monitoring and evaluation. For the project as a whole, the Indian Institute of Management-Lucknow
(IIML) will be responsible for independent M&E of ongoing project activities based on performance indicators for each line
department. However, the participatory management approach adopted under the technology dissemination component calls
for a different style of M&E. The degree to which the broader needs-based approach implied in SHG/CG/PA formation
achieves the objectives of reaching poor and marginal farmers and women, and enhances their capacity to make claims on
public services, demands close attention to monitoring the process of group formation itself.. Qualitative issues such as group
dynamics, decision making processes and conflict management do not lend themselves well to the straightforward monitoring
of inputs, and information on their key parameters need to be elicited using innovative methodological tools. It is essential that
members of farmer organizations themselves are involved in self-evaluation and concurrent monitoring of their own evolving
institutional strengths and weaknesses. Suggested parameters, methodologies, and stakeholder roles are described in the outline
TORs (Attachment 6).
Child Labor
22.    The use of child labor in sericulture (particularly silk reeling), weaving and carpet-making in various parts of India is
an issue of major concern to GOI as well as to NGOs and international organizations including UNICEF and ILO. India is a
participating country in international programs aimed towards the elimination of child labor, and various sensitization,
education, training and rehabilitation initiatives are being undertaken through partnerships between government agencies,
NGOs, labor organizations and the media. Such initiatives are ongoing in the context of UP's weaving industry around
Varanasi, fostered particularly through a number of activist NGOs.
23.    The situation in UP's sericulture sector is different from that in other traditional sericulture states of India. With
respect to production and reeling, sericulture is very much an infant industry in the state. There is no traditional reeling sector
so no child labor is employed in sericulture reeling within UP at the current time. There is a very small level of production so
child labor in the context of family labor probably exists as in all other family agriculture enterprises. The project is not
involved in weaving and would leave that aspect to other organisations already involved. The project would focus on trying to
ensure that child labor does not emerge in the future in the reeling industry. GOUP takes the issue of child labor seriously and
has begun to take measures to safeguard against the possible future employment of child labor in sericulture, through licensing,
regulation of technology, developing new legislation, and monitoring procedures.
24.    The Indian Supreme Court recently passed a landmark ruling (No. 465) on the issue of child labor. On December 10,
1996, concerned state governments were instructed by the Supreme Court to conduct surveys within one year to determine
actual numbers of child workers in both hazardous and non-hazardous industries, and immediately to implement measures to
enroll child workers in schools while at the same time protecting their families' livelihoods. In response, the GOUP
Department of Labor has completed its survey conducted between April-May 1997. As a result, 5,522 employers employing
child labor in hazardous porcesses have been identified and issued notices to take action in accordance to the judgement of the
Supreme Court. Concurrently, the Rural Development Department is taking measures to provide alternate employment to
heads of families of child laborers identified working in hazardous industries. In addition, in compliance with the instructions
of the Supreme Court, approval has been received from Cabinet to set up a Child Labour Rehabilitation and Welfare Fund on
January 2, 1998. A sum of Rs. 7 crore (about US$270,000) has been provided by GOUP from the State Emergency Fund
towards the Child Labor Rehabilitation and Welfare Fund. The interest from that fund would be used to fnance education of
former child workers. In due course, the fund will be supplemented with fines levied on enterprises prosecuted for employing



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 69
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                        Annex 2/Attachment 5
child labor under Supreme Court ruling No.465 and under the Child Labor Prohibition and Regulation Act 1986.
25.    Under a Departmental Order of the Department of Sericulture, GOUP already requires all silkworm rearers and silk
reelers within U.P to be licensed. The existing licensing system already regulates the type of technology used in silk reeling,
as licenses will only be awarded where multi-end or semi-automatic units are deployed. To take such regulation a stage further
and to give it full legal backing, GOUP has formulated a draft Sericulture Development Act which will legislate for the
licensing, monitoring and inspection of all silkworm rearing and silk reeling units. At appraisal, assurance was given by the
Secretary, Directorate of Sericulture, that amendments to the draft Act relating specifically to child labor are under
consideration, together with provisions for their enforcement through licensing, training of private entrepreneurs, monitoring
and inspection.
26.    While child labor is not currently an issue within the silkworm rearing and silk reeling sectors which UPDASP aims
to support in 8 districts of UP, the project proposes to take a proactive stance towards guarding against the possible future use
of child labor in silk production, and towards its eventual elimination in weaving. Several incremental measures are
envisaged: (i) an action-orientated study to draw lessons from other parts of India where child labor in sericulture is a problem
and identify specific ways in which similar problem can be prevented in UP sericulture; (ii)further regulation of reeling
technology by reinforcing UP Department of Sericulture's existing licensing arrangements through the proposed Sericulture
Act and through public-private partnerships focused on agreements with credit institutions to extend credit preferentially to
operators using multi-end reeling units; (iii) drawing on the relevant competencies of the NGOs involved in the
implementation of the sericulture sub-component to sensitize and train those directly involved in silk production and reeling
on the importance of child education, appropriate working conditions, and use of workers' groups to be promoted under the
project for child labor prevention and monitoring; (iv) institutional dialogue and partnerships with NGOs and other agencies,
e.g. UNICEF, working in the field of child labor prevention and rehabilitation in UP; (v) strengthening of GOUP's existing
monitoring, enforcement and inspection procedures through staff training, revision, production and distribution of relevant
operational guidelines, and involvement of independent agencies in monitoring activities; and (vi) promotion of convergence
between DASP, especially in districts where sericulture is an important part of the farming system, and other GOI/GOUP/NGO
programs/projects aimed at expanding and/or improving primary education. In addition, UPDASP is committed to
implementing any additional measures that may be identified through the study, or through engagement with other concerned
stakeholders, as and when necessary.
Land contributions for rural roads upgrading
27.    The rural infrastructure component of UPDASP provides for the upgrading of rural roads to facilitate access to
markets in those blocks/ districts selected for project activities. In some cases this work may require small amounts of new
land to be acquired to facilitate construction works. The social issues surrounding land acquisition were investigated
thoroughly during appraisal, in order to ensure that problems of compliance with OD 4.30 do not arise.
28.    All road sections to be upgraded under UPDASP will follow existing alignments. Some sections selected for
upgrading are on land already owned by the Department of Public Works (PWD), in which case no land acquisition is
required. In other cases, land for 'chak' roads was set aside for future road construction around the time of the most recent
land consolidation in UP arcund ten years ago. However, the width of these 'chak' roads is insufficient for proposed upgrading
works to current PWD standards. In these cases, a few meters of additional land needs to be acquired either side of the existing
'chak' road to allow for current building standards (including hard-topping, embankments, and possible borrow pits). In some
cases, some smoothing of curves is also required to comply with the required safety standards on upgraded roads, which will
also entail some land acquisition. A further consideration to be taken into account is that even the existing 'chak' roads have
frequently been encroached upon by farmers, so that the width of the alignment has been reduced in practice to little more than
a pathway. The issue PWID faces, therefore, is to restore the full width of the 'chak' road and to acquire additional small
amounts of land to accommodate current construction standards.
29.    It is customary practice in UP for farmers to give up land voluntarily and without compensation for road upgrading.
This precedent is based on a straightforward cost-benefit calculation on the part of the farmers affected: they will voluntarily
contribute a portion of their land only if and when it is perceived that the benefits of the improved road outweigh the costs
incurred in lost land. This was confirmed at appraisal in field interviews conducted with farmers likely to lose a portion of
their land holdings for road upgrading. Several farmers commented that the benefits of road improvement were not restricted
to market access. They particularly valued the additional benefits that would accrue with improved access to health care
facilities. Proposed road upgrading under UPDASP will therefore follow the precedent already established in UP



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 70
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                     Annex 2/Attachment 5
30.    Certain concrete measures are being undertaken in UPDASP to ensure that land contributions are truly voluntary, that
undue social pressure is not exerted on individual land owners or land operators, and that all related transactions are conducted
in a transparent manner. The agreed mechanism is to draw up a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the District
Magistrate or his appointed officer in the concerned district, the elected leader(s) (gram sabha) of the local village
representative body(ies), and each and every land holder required to contribute land for the proposed road upgrading works
(see MOUI). In the event that unanimous agreement to contribute the required land is not reached among the farmers affected,
that particular road section will not be upgraded and a different section will be taken up instead. Only when each and every
farmer affected has signed the MOU will the proposed construction works proceed. On no account will there be any
involuntary land acquisition.
31.    The procedure to be followed in concluding each MOU will follow a specific sequence of steps, designed to protect
all parties. Each land holder will know precisely which land parcel(s) and how much land he is agreeing to contribute, but will
also agree not to claim compensation. Proposed road sections shall be marked on maps, discussed in field visits and meetings,
and marked clearly on the ground with survey pegs. Where more than one village is involved, public meetings (e.g. involving
participatory mapping exercises) may be required to reach agreement on the particular alignment to be upgraded. The primary
concem is to ensure that the vulnerable elements of the community are not disadvantaged by the process of voluntary land
transfer. In addition to the MOU, the Procedure to be followed (see MOUI) emphasises a transparent, public consultation
process in drawing up the list of concerned land holders, including those without legally documented rights in land. The
intention is to bring about an attitudinal change among those implementing the project as well as to safeguard the interests of
the vulnerable.
32.    Under the independent M&E of project activities under UPDASP to be carried out by the Indian Institute of
Management-Lucknow (IIML), specific attention will be paid to monitoring the process of land acquisition for roads
upgrading. Field surveys will be conducted to confirm that the process of concluding MOUs is transparent, that undue social
pressure is not brought to bear on unwilling land owners or operators, and to ascertain farmers' perceptions of the benefits they
expect from road improvement.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 71
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                          Annex 2/Attachment 5
TOR I
UTT'AR PRADESH DIVERSIFIED AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
CONSTILTANCY SERVICES FOR THE STUDY OF INVOLVEMENT OF CHILD
LABOUR IN SERICULTURE SUB COMPONENT
1. Background
India has been producing and exporting silk for a quite number of centuries. For quite a number of years the
Government was supporting the industry and trying to boost the silk production. GOI created the Central Silk Board (CSB) an
autonomous body involved with the responsibility of developing Sericulture.
The State of Uttar Pradesh endowed with diversified agro-climatic conditions, offers vast potential for development of
sericulture industry. UP is known world over especially amongst overseas Indian communities for its Varanasi Silk Sarees and
other silk products. It has been estimated that weaving industries of Mubarakpur and Varanasi currently consuming 3000 MT
of raw silk annually, which is approximately 25 percent of country's production.
Sericulture comprises of two major activities namely cultivation of mulberry for raising the leaf crop to feed the silk
worm and rearing the silk worm to produce the cocoons which is the raw material for the silk reeling industry. Mulberry
cultivation is agriculture in nature, the operations involved being simple, straight forward and easy to be carried out. On the
other hand Silk Worm Rearing (SWR) is a quite complicated process calling for specialized management skills with due
understanding of various technological aspects involved.
As in the case in other states, there are apprehensions in UP also that expansion of sericulture would result in use of
child labor at various stages of mulberry leaf production, silk worm rearing and reeling. Accordingly, the present consultancy
is being proposed with the following objectives.
2. Statement of Objectives
The major objectives of the zssignment would be to collect information on:
(a) based on the study of sericulture elsewhere in India, to identify the types of child labor that could potentially
emerge in UP in future e.g. school going children of the families working as part of the family labor during their
off time, child labor who work on full time and bonded labor who work on contract and other such illegal
conditions-and the structural conditions that make for differing conditions of work, problems and compulsions
that have forced them into child labor along with child abuse, health hazards, payment of wages and other aspects
related to child labor.
(b) in sericulture elsewhere in India and in related sector in UP(e.g. weaving) to analyze the causal relationship
between child labor and the socio-economic needs of their families and the impact of loss of income of child
labor on their families.
(c) to assess the impacts of earlier efforts to eliminate child labor at industry, community and family levels in Uttar
Pradesh, and allso the efforts to implement various laws related to child labor and the judgement of the Supreme
Court.
3. Scope of Social
On the basis of the social assessment carried out, the consultant would carry out the following:
(a) to provide a strategy for minimizing the loss of income to the families who would benefit from activities related
to sericulture in the event that child labor emerges in future;



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 72
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                               Annex 2/Attachment 5
TOR I
(b) to assess the likely effectiveness of measures such as appropriate technological interventions such as multi end
reeling units, in preventing child labor in sericulture;
(c) suggest other strategies, including regulatory mechanisms, to elimninate child labor in sericulture, with a particular
focus on enforcement procedures; and
(d) based on a review of ongoing initiatives of other institutions ( e.g. UNICEF, CREDA, other NGOs), to suggest
strategies for the involvement of government. organizations, non-government organizations and community
based organizations in preventing and eiiminating child labor and in off-setting loss of income of the families of
child labor, and also enabling children to go to school, help with technical skill, upgrading and identifying
opportunity for apprenticeship employment, when they attain adult age.
4. Methodology
(a) to select 3 districts randomly out of 8 districts identified under UPDASP where there are ongoing sericulture
activities (Dehradun, Nainital, Udhamsingh Nagar, Bahraich, Gonda, Gorakhpur, Maharajgang and Padrauna)
one in each eco-climatic zone for detailed study;
(b) the consultant will collect preliminary data through semi-structured interviews and direct interactions of families
and others involved in reeling, marketing and weaving in randomly selected villages of the randomly selected 3
districts out of 8;
(c) the consultant will also use participatory methodologies such as focus group discussions and livelihoods analysis
through visualization methods with child labor, their famnilies including mothers, children who worked as labor
but are not working any more and their families, children of beneficiary families who go to school but also work
in addition to women and various "interest groups" such as those involved in reeling and weaving industries in
Varanasi and Mubarakpur, which are involved in different sericulture activities;
(d) systematic analysis of the interests of concerned groups, and the ways these would be affected under possible
future scenarios should be carried out (Stake holder analysis); and
(e) the consultants would also involve NGO's who are working on issues related to child labor in Uttar Pradesh in
order to use their experiences while preparing strategies mentioned above.
5. Data, Services and Facilities to be Provided by the Client
UPDASP shall provide access to all places selected by consultant and related documents and facilities of free
interaction with related personnel. The Consultant should make independent arrangement for travel, stay etc.and these should
be included consultancy charges.
6. Schedule for Completion of Tasks
Field Work                                2 weeks from date of signing of contract to survey the selected mulberry
production and silk worm rearing centers
I Week survey of cocoon markets
3 Weeks survey of weaving industries and other related sectors.
2 Weeks review of on going initiatives in child labor
prevention in UP (e.g. UNECEF, CREDA, other NGOs)
Preparation of Draft Report               2 weeks
Finalization of Report                    2 weeks



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 73
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                             Annex 2/Attachment 5
TOR 1
7. Final Outputs Required from the Consultant
Subsequent to the acceptance of proposal, the consultant shall submit a work plan to be adopted by:
(a) Intermediary NGOs involved in mobilizing Farmers Interest Groups (FIGs) in villages proposed to be engaged in
Mulberry cultivation and silk worm rearing to focus on sensitization and awareness raising on the issue of child
labor, with and emphasis on the importance of education.
(b) DOS, DASP and GOUP to modify their policy planning so that child labor exploitation could be minimized and
to suggest measures to minimize the exploitation of child labor involved in Reeling/Weaving industry of
sericulture.
(c) NGO's and Agri-Business group to adopt proposed strategy of minimizing the involvement of child labor in
sericulture activity.
8. Procedure of Review of Reports
The consultant shall submit:-
(a) a proposal of work plan within a week after signing of contract;
(b) fortnightly report as per agreed program;
(c) draft presentation as per plan; and
(d) final report two weeks after draft presentation approval by the client.
9. Review Committee:
(a) Fortnightly report        Technical Coordinator/Technical Expert (Seri.)
UPDASP
(b) Consolidated report       Technical Coordinator/Project Coordinator,
UP DASP
(c) Final report              UP DASP/DOS/GOUP/WB



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 74
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                           Annex 2/Attachment 5
MOU I
Memorandum of Understanding
This memorandum of understanding is made on ............................ day of ..  199... corresponding
to Saka Sambat ..........       day of .19.. between
Sri           .son of ..resident of                                                 .
(hereinafter referred to as "the first party") and the Governor of Uttar Pradesh through Sri ............................ sub-
divisional officer ..........   (hereinafter referred to as "second party").
THESE PRESENTS WITNESS AS FOLLOW:
1.     That the first party is Bhumidhar with transferable right of.  acre of land bearing
khasra No .....    in village ....., pargana .
tahsil .., district .
2.     That the first party hereby grants to the second party above said land for the construction and
development of LINK ROAD in the village .............................    for the benefit of the villagers
and the public at large.
3.     That the first party would not claim any compensation against the above said grant of land.
4.     That the second party agrees to accept the above grant of land for the purposes mentioned in clause
2.
5.     That the second party shall construct and develop the LINK ROAD and take all possible precautions
to avoid damage to land adjacent to LINK ROAD.
6.     That the first party also assures the second party that all possible measures would be taken to
maintain the LINK ROAD so constructed/developed till the Government of Uttar Pradesh
formulates the broader policy to maintain the LINK ROAD so constructed/developed and will not
indulge in any willful act of damaging it or obstructing the movement of public and vehicles on the
LINK ROAD.
7.     That both the parties hereto agree that the LINK ROAD so constructed/developed shall be public
premises.
8.     That the provisions of the MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING will come into force from
the date of signing of this deed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have signed this deed on the day and the year first above
written.
Signatures of the first party:                      Signature for and on behalf of the second party
Witness:-                                           Witnesses:
1.                                                  1.
2.                                                  2.
(Signature, name and address)                         (Signature, name and address)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 75
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                             Annex 2/Attachment 5
MOU I
PROCEDURE FOR SELECTION OF ROADS,
ASCERTAINING THE LAND REQUIREMENT
AND SIGNING MOUs WITH THE
VOLUNTARY LAND DONORS
1.     Executive Engineer P.W.D. will prepare a block map using 1:50000 scale topo sheets & marking on them
surfacewise details of all the existing roads, tracks paths etc. in consultation with all the agencies involved in
road construction.
2.     Eligible roads according to the agreed criteria are then identified by the E.E. P.W.D. in coordination with the
District Magistrate through CDO.
3.     E.E. P.W.D. then carries out a reconnaissance survey of the identified roads.
4.     Proposals are then submitted to DASP indicating the road lengths, their location etc. on map.
5.     DASP & P.W.D. officers arrange field visits and public meetings with land holders & Gram Pradhans to
verify the willingness on the part of land holders to donate land as required. Public meetings shall be well
publicized in advance to give all those with rights in land an opportunity to come forward and comment.
Where more than one village is involved, especially where different villages may have different views,
public meeting with farmers from several villages may be needed. Not only should the upgrading of the
proposed alignment be discussed with them, but also possible alternative alignments that they may suggest.
6.     Final selection of alignment to be upgraded is to be made jointly by PWD & DASP.
7.     Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) provides Sajara Maps to PWD.
8.     PWD carries out detailed engineering surveys, fixing pegs on the site and after verification, prepares strip
maps on "Sajara" sheets.
9.     SDM carries out joint measurements and, in public consultation with Gram Pradhans and the concerned land
holders, prepares a list of locally recognized land holders whose lands are required for road upgrading,
indicating the respective areas of land required from each (see Annexure "A").
10.    MOU should be signed by District Magistrate or his authorized officer and all Voluntary Land Donors,
before any bids are invited for the upgrading of the road.
11.    District Coordmiator DASP/PCU will monitor this process, with independent M&E by Indian Institute of
Management-Lucknow



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                       Page 76
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                                  Annex 2/Attachment 5
MOU I
ANNEXURE A
Addforms as necessary per each and every village along proposed link road.
Village Name:
PLOT No./SAJRA No.        NAMES OF LANDHOLDERS             AREA OF LAND NEEDED FOR              SIGNATURE OR MARK OF LAND
ROAD CONSTRUCTION FROM              HOLDER
EACH LAND HOLDER



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 77
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                    Annex 2/Attachment 5
MOU 2
Memorandum of Understanding to be signed between the Director, Panchayati Raj, Uttar Pradesh and the
concerned village Panchayat for the improvement and maintenance of the Rural Haathpainths (Village Markets)
The Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the Director, Panchayati Raj, Uttar Pradesh through competent
and authorized signatory thereof hereinafter called as the first party and the village panchayat (have) block (name), distt
(name) through its component and authorized signatory hereinafter called as the second party for the construction and
maintenance of the rural Haal: Painths constructed on village panchayat land (khasra No.) area (in unit) at the cost of Rs. lakh
under U.P. Diversified Agriculture Support Project is signed today ie. (date) and both the parties entering into this agreement
are mutually agreed to do abide by the following terms and conditions and it will come into effect from the day of its signing
both the concerned parties:
(1) That the development (including construction of building and other common utility facilities) of the haat
painths, as referred to above, will be undertaken by the concerned village panchayat in accordance with the
procedure rules in this regard of the Directorate of Panchayati Raj, Uttar Pradesh.
(2) That the so constructed building and other infrastractual facilities as part of the development of the said haat
painth will be the property of the concerned village panchayat and their entry would be ensured in the
appropriate records of the concerned village panchayat as well as of the revenue department.
(3) That the village panchayat ....................    block ...   distt .  U.P. would also ensure that
the property so created/developed is utilized solely and exclusively for the purpose and activities it is deemed
for.
(4) That the village panchayat .................... block ..  distt .         agrees to undertake
the entire responsibility for maintenance of the property of the hattpainth created out of the one time grant
received under U.P. Diversified Agriculture Support Project.
(5) That the village panchayat would be authorized for maintenance and regulation of all such markets or fares, in
total or part thereof, as the case may be, which are organized on public land under the provisions contained in
Section 4, Subsection 2 of the "Sunyukta Prant Panchayat Raj Adhiniyam 1947 (as amended, 1994).
(6) That the building/Shades constructed as a part of development of the said rural haatpainth will be allotted to
bonafied users only and the village panchayat, in no circumstance, would lease out or rent out it to any
contractor.
(7) That the selection of the bonafied users would be done as per the provisions of section 29 of the Act by the
'LOK HIT S'AMITT" of the village panchayat which would have Pradhan of the concerned village panchayat
as its chairman, besides three other members of the concerned village panchayat.
(8) That the "LOK HIT SAMITT" would assist the village panchayat to discharge its functions as they relate to
the haat painth, constructed/developed under the project. In order to assure the participation of the
beneficiaries, one member each from the concerned farmers and trades would also be invited in the meting of
the "LOK HIT SAMITT' as special invitees to give them opportunity for expressing their views and raising
their probleims or the issues relating to haatpainth, but they would have no right to vote.
(9) That the proceeding of the 'LOK HIT SAMITI" would be organized as per the provisions of the Panchayati
Raj Act and the bye-laws given under them.
(10) That the village panchayat would assume the responsibility to maintain and upkeep the property of the
haatpainth developed with the assistance of the World bank under the U.P. Diversified Agriculture Support
Project and be competent and authorized to levy and tax or fee as per the provisions of the act on the items
brought there for sale.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 78
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                      Annex 2/Attachment 5
MOU 2
(11) That all such receipts collected under the provisions referred in para (10) would be kept in the account of
Gram Nidhi and a separate ledger of account would be maintained for it. The amount so collected would be
used only for the maintenance and development of the said haatpainth and its diversion to any other place or
purpose would be totally prohibited.
(12) That the maintenance and upkeep of the haatpainth would generally include colouring, painting and repairing
of the building, repairing of the hand pumps, clearing of the drainage and site, and arranging street lights.
(13) That the terms and conditions laid down in this MOU would be acceptable and binding upon both the parties
entering into this MOU and in case of any dispute arising of it, both the parties would seek the legal opinion
from the Distt. Govt. Counsel (Civil) of the concerned district through the Distt. Panchayati Raj Officer and
would abide by that. However, the cost thereto would be borne by the concerned village panchayat.
(14) That the Distt. Panchayati Raj Officer would represent the Director, Panchayati Raj, Uttar Pradesh, in all
places, records of evidences and similarly, Pradhan of the concerned village panchayat would represent the
concerned village panchayat in all such matters.
(15) That the concerned village panchayat would be allowed to develop other infrastructure facilities from its own
resources at the site of the haatpainth as per the provisions of Section 15 (ka) of the Act.
That the above MOU after going through its contents thoroughly is signed today before the following witnesses:
First Party                                                                 Second Party
Signature of the Distt Panchayati Raj                               Signature of the Pradhan,
Officer with full nuame, date and seal                              concerned village panchayat with
on behalf of the Director, Panchayati Raj, UP                       full name, date and seal
on behalf of the village Panchayat
Block--------------Distt.---------------
Witnesses:                                                          Witnesses:



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 79
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                       Annex 2/Attachment 6
Participatory M&E and Beneficiary Impact Assessment with respect to CGs/SHGs
Outline Terms of Reference
Rationale
The participatory management approach adopted under the technology component of UPDASP is designed to foster a
two-way interaction between farmers and line department extension services, and the demand-driven tailoring of technology
dissemination to suit locally specific constraints and opportunities. NGOs will play a key intermediary role in this process, as
trainers and catalysts in the formation of various types of farmer interest group (FIGs) including Commodity Groups (CGs)
and women's Self-Help Groups (SHGs).
This approach callis for a different style of monitoring and evaluation from that based on performance indicators for
each line department. The degree to which the broader needs-based approach implied in FIG formation achieves the objectives
of reaching poor and marginal farmers and women, and enhances their capacity to make claims on public services, demands
close attention to monitoring the process of group formation itself. Qualitative issues such as group dynamics, decision
making processes and conflict management do not lend themselves well to the straightforward monitoring of inputs, and
information on their key parameters need to be elicited using innovative methodological tools. It is essential that FIGs
themselves are involved in self-evaluation and concurrent monitoring of their own evolving strengths and weaknesses.
Key parameters for village baseline survey to include:
*   beneficiary perceptions of wealth/ well-being status (this process will itself elicit criteria that can form key
parameters for subsequent M&E)
*   landholding pattern (% marginal, small, medium, large)
a   % landless/ sharecroppers
*   male and female 7+ literacy rates
:   female workforce participation rate
male and female wage rates
o   caste (and tribal where relevant) composition of community
-   cross-comparisons of parameters (e.g. caste background in relation to wealth rank/ landholding class; female
WPR in relation to caste/ religion)
Suggested methods and sources to include:
*   participatory wealth ranking
*   social mapping
*   participatory village census
*   district/ block records (triangulate against wealth ranking)
o   simple, short questionnaire
Additional parameters on gender relations within households of SHG members to include:
*   parameters as for village baseline survey, plus additional information on members:
*   number of women already holding bank accounts
*   household expenditure patterns by degree of control by adult male/ female member(s) (e.g. expenditure agreed
jointly, tacitly, separately and not discussed, etc)
*   female mobility pattern
Suggested methods to include:
*   household budget analysis (to be elicited by means of semi-structured interview and livelihood profile
diagramming)
*   mobility 'mapping'/ diagramming
*   simple, shorl questionnaire



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 80
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                       Annex 2/Attachment 6
Additional parameters for SHG/ CG baseline profile and/or concurrent M&E to include:
* membership profile according to parameters identified in village baseline survey (by wealth/ well-being status,
landholding size, caste, etc)
*   document agreed procedures for membership, elections/ nomination of leadership, financial transactions, etc.
and assess change over time
*   characterise decision-making processes and assess change over time
*   characterise approach to internal and external conflict management and assess change over time
* purpose(s), frequency/ regularity of group meetings, and change over time
*   financial savings accumulated over time
Suggested methods to include:
*   process documentation
*   network and/or venn (chapati) diagramming of internal/ external relationships
*   participant observation (by NGO facilitator)
Stakeholders involved
Infornation on the parameters suggested should be provided or elicited by the NGO facilitator working in the
village, with the collaboration and joint analysis of FIG members. Self-evaluation of evolving group dynamics is particularly
irnportant in relation to procedural aspects of the group and how these change over time. The NGO facilitator should share
information with her/his intermediary NGO representatives at district level and interact with facilitators working in other
villages/ blocks in order to learn from experiences and modify implementation approach. Representatives of each intermediary
NGO should in turn share information with the central 'anchor' NGO at state level and (through networking meetings
facilitated by the 'anchor' NGO) with other intermediary NGOs, again with a view to learning from experience and modifying
implementation approach. Two-way communication and informnation flows between each of these levels are essential. The
'anchor' NGO should in turn provide IIML with summary reports at baseline and at agreed subsequent review milestones as
an input to the overall M&E of UPDASP under the coordination of the PCU.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 81
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                        Annex 2/Attachment 7
Environmental Management Plan
Amongst Uttar Pradesh's (UP's) production systems food crop production is the largest user of natural "environment"
(land, water, plant and animal genetic resources and climate). Given its high population density, UP already has a high
proportion of land under cultivation (net sown area is about 60% of the total land area). Future growth in agriculture,
therefore, would largely come from intensification and/or diversification of production systems. This would not only result in
greater use of natural resources but would also increase mechanization and use of applied inputs such as fertilizers and
pesticides. At the same time availability of short duration varieties allows intensive monocropping with a limited number of
high yielding varieties with reduced fallows and simultaneous reduction in re-cycling of organic matter back to the soil. In the
long-run, this practice would adversely affect crop development as well as result in narrowing of the genetic diversity. In
addition, monocropping brings about build up of pest and diseases which farmers then attempt to control with increasing levels
of pesticide use. Leakage of applied chemical into surface water and leaching into groundwater can lead to problem of
downstream pollution.
The potential for environmental degradation is particularly acute in rice -wheat cropping system where use of "green
revolution" technology (increased fertilizer use, irrigation, and short-duration rice and wheat varieties) is widely practiced by
farmers, especially in Western UP. Recent studies have shown that following initial increases in yields in these rotations,
primarily in response to increased application of fertilizer, the productivity gains either reach a plateau or decline. There may
be a reduction in total factor productivity, thus raising concern about long-term sustainability of the production system. There
is also evidence of water-logging and salinization/sodification of inherently fertile lands due to irrigation.
In view of importance of the production systems of UP's central and eastern plains to food security and the
agricultural sector generally, monitoring and evaluation of environmental impact of the project would be focused on
sustainability issues affecting the rice-wheat cropping system. In view of the complexity and scope of the task and limited
institutional capacity, in addition to financing some independent activities, the project's approach to enviromnent management
would be to establish close linkages and access information from on-going programs where similar work is either in progress
or is due to start in the near future.
The first example of collaboration with an existing program would be with the Rice-wheat Consortium for the Indo-
gangetic Plains. The consortium comprising of the national research systems of India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Nepal,
selected international agricultural research institutes of the CG system (IRRI, CIMMYT, ICRISAT, IIMI) and Cornell
University, USA. Participation of India in this regional program is being coordinated by the Indian Council of Agricultural
Research (ICAR) who are also the implementing agency for the recently negotiated Bank/IDA assisted National Agricultural
Technology Project. Support for the rice-wheat cropping research is an important sub-project under NATP in which two of the
State Agricultural Universities of UP (at Pant Nangr and Faizabad) are active participant. The primary objective of this
collaboration with be to participate/promote research (through UPCAR and SAUs) on issues that are fundamental to achieve
enhanced productivity and sustainability of the rice-wheat cropping system. Four major research themes being financed by the
consortium include: Integrated Pest Management, Tillage and Crop Establishment, Water Management and Integrated Plant
Nutrient Management.
A major concern for the UP government is the increasing sodicity of soils in the state which is an important
contributor to low productivity of the food crop production systems. Therefore, the second example of collaboration under
DASP would be with the on-going IDA assisted UP Sodic Lands Reclamation Project (SLRP). This project, soon to be
followed by a second phase project, is assisting with reclamation of sodic areas. It includes a comprehensive enviromnent
management plan to monitor and evaluate impact of this work on soil and land use, ground /surface water quality and
biodiversity. SLRP I and II would also assist with an action program to prevent further build up of sodicity, especially through
provision of effective and efficient drainage network which is considered to be a major contributor to increasing sodicity.
Further details of SLRP's environmental management plan are given in Annex 10 of the Staff Appraisal Report No. 11715-IN
In addition, the project specific environment management activities would include monitoring of: (a) groundwater
and crop residues of pesticides; (b) support for IPM research and development program; (c) genetic resource conservation of
crops and breeds; and (d) soil conservation in the context of civil works to be financed to upgrade the rural infrastructure. A
matrix highlighting potential environmental impacts and risk reduction measures is given below. As a result of these actions
the project is expected to have a positive impact on the environment.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 82
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                        Annex 2/Attachment 7
Matrix of Potential Environmental Impacts and Risk Reduction Measures
Issue                Potential Project Impact  Possible Effects       Proposed Actions
Environmental        Pesticides use in the state  Exposures of        (i) Monitoring of pesticide residues in selected
pollution, including    is increasing, especially   users/applicators to  locations in: (a) ground water; and (b) two
problems associated   in high value crops such   pesticides with potential  representative crops (mango and a crucifer); (ii)
with system ecology,   as mango and           negative health effects.   support for research and development of
and public health    vegetables. Efforts to                           Integrated Pest Management (IPM)
safety as a result of    increase productivity  Increasing levels of  practices(mango, vegetables and pulses,
increasing use of    through greater          pesticide residues in the   including training of stafflfarmer leaders/groups.
pesticides           intensification and/or   environment (ground     IPM strategy to include promotion of resistant
diversification of      water and soil) and     varieties, improved cultural practices, use of
production systems,     agricultural produce,   biocontrol agents, monitoring and judicious use
especially in Western   especially fruit and    of pesticides. Research to focus on definition of
UP, could result in     vegetables.             different elements of IPM packages, and
increased use of                                recommendations on rational pesticide policies
agricultural chemicals.                         to help prevent development of pesticide
resistance or contamination of enviromnent; and
(iii) support for public awareness campaigns to
promote safe and effective handling/use of
agricultural chemicals.
Sustainable          Indications are that the    A decline in total factor   Support for technology development,
management of        Rice-Wheat cropping      productivity.           dissemination, training and promotional
natural resources    system, which                                    activities to: (i) improve water-use efficiency at
especially in the rice-  constitutes an important                     crop, farm and system level; identify and
wheat system         part of UP's food crop                           measure indicators of productivity and
production system, is                           sustainability in relation to progress and impact
having problems with                            of current irrigation methods on water tables,
water-induced land                              sodicity, water logging and water distribution
degradation                                     (monitoring of environmental issues related to
(sodification, ground-                          water would largely be undertaken through IDA
water depletion). In                            assisted UP Sodic Lands Reclamation Project
addition, slow loss of                          which is already involved in extensive analytical
fertility, possibly from                        work on soil, ground water and biological
changes in the way                              monitoring to assess changes in quality); (ii)
farmers manage organic                          enhance soil fertility through promotion of
matter along with more                          Integrated Plant Nutrient Management (IPNM)
sustained removal of                            practices involving organic matter recycling and
nutrients associated with                       enrichment; promotion of bio-fertilizers;
intensive cropping, may                         measures for correcting micro-nutrient
also be occurring.                              deficiencies; soil testing and analysis; improved
Support for further                             extension service and farmer training and on-
intensification under the                       farm demonstrations to increase adoption rate of
project may add to these                        recommended solutions.
problems.                                       Project would also collaborate with the Rice-
Wheat Consortium through ICAR on research
themes of importance to the state.
Biodiversity         Impact of intensive      Reduced biodiversity    Support for activities to conserve and increase
conservation         monoculture on exotic    with narrowing of       availability of improved genetic stock of crops
breeds/varieties leading   genetic base for     and breeds through: (a) livestock germplasm
to narrowing of         production systems.     enhancement involving development of
biodiversity and loss of                        breeding and breed improvement programs in
local breeds/varieties.                         local breeds based on animal registration and
field performance recording system; and (b)
introduction of improved genetic materials of



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 83
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                           Annex 2/Attachment 7
Issue                 Potential Project Impact  Possible Effects        ProposedActions
temperate and sub-tropical horticultural crops
suited to local conditions.
Adverse environment  Inappropriate             Increased soil erosion   To minimize any negative impact the road
impact due to works   management practices                              improvement works to use existing alignments;
on rural roads        may result in soil erosion                        improvements in drainage structure as part of
due civil works activities                        the overall roads improvement program;
to improve rural roads                           independent technical examiners to monitor
adherence to agreed specifications



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 84
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                        Annex 2/Attachment 8
Uttar Pradesh Diversified Agriculture Support Project
Economic and Policy Analysis Unit
English Translation of the
Govt. Order (not vetted)
From,
Sri Anant Kumar Singh
Special Secretary
Coordination
Govt. of Uttar Pradesh
To,    Project Coordinator
UPDASP
A-11, Nirala Nagar
Lucknow
Coordination Section                                                          Lucknow: Dated 20 March, 1998
Subject: - Establishment of Economic and Policy Analysis Unit
With reference to your letter no. 2276/DASP/98 dated 21.2.98 on the subject referred to above, I am directed to say that with the
objective of analysing the progress of agriculture sector and formulating the strategy for agricultural development in the state
within the framework of 'National Agriculture Policy', Honourable Governor is pleased to accord his approval to the
establishment of "Economic and Policy Analysis Unit" in the World Bank aided "U.P. Diversified Agriculture Support Project".
(2)    The following positions sanctioned vide govt. order no. 1 99/Coord./1 997/ED(2)/96TCl dated 24.9.97 would  be deemed
as included in the above unit.
(I)     Manager (Planning & Analysis)          -      1 post
(al)    Agriculture Economist                 -        I post
(III)   Stenographer                          -       I post
(IV)    Messenger                              -       I post
Manager (Planning & analysis) would be the head of the proposed unit.
(3)    The unit would be responsible for undertaking the following activities:-
(I)     To formulate and update periodically, an agricultural strategy for Uttar Pradesh in accordance with
State's and national objectives, state resource endowments, market opportunities and comparative advantages.
al)     To recommend policies and appropriate inteventions for implementing the strategy as may be formulated.
(Il)    To assess the impact of policy reforms on sectoral growth, equity and resource use efficiency. To begin with,
the focus of efforts in this area would primarily be on the policy reform programmes taken up under the
UPDASP.
(IV)    To undertake the annual reviews of fiscal issues relating to agriculture.
(V)     To initiate and supervise special studies as may be needed from time to time.
(VI)    To publish and effectively disseminate fndings through regular interactions with senior officials of the
government, regular briefing notes, workshops and other media.
(4)    The unit would function under the direct control of the Agriculture Production Commissioner, Uttar Pradesh
and would conduct studies and organise seminars etc. in order to achieve its objectives as per requirements.
Yours faithfully,
Sd.
(Anant Kumar Singh)
Special Secretary



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                   Page 85
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                             Annex 2/Attachment 9
Review of Fiscal Issues in Agriculture
Draft Terms of Reference
1.      As part of its overall work program the Economic and Policy Analysis Unit will carry out an annual review of fiscal
issues in the state's agriculture sector. For the purposes of the review, the agriculture sector will include agriculture and allied
activities, irrigation, and rural roads. All expenditures in these areas, irrespective of the departments financing them (for example,
the Department of Rural Development implemented programs directly related to the agriculture sector), will be included in the
review.
2.      The main objective of the review will be to provide a quantitative and economically meaningful analysis of fiscal issues
in the agriculture sector. The review would provide policy makers with a sound analytical basis to identify measures that would
lead to fiscal sustainability and improve the flexibility and development impact of public resources used in agriculture. The review
would consist of the following main elements:
(a)  Assess key indicators of overall fiscal performance of the state such as fiscal deficit, debt, interest payments, tax and
non-tax revenue, current and capital expenditure, and identify the main issues of fiscal sustainability.
(b)  Trend analysis of the size and composition of agriculture public expenditures (plan and non-plan), including an
economic reclassification of agriculture public expenditures into recurrent and capital categories. Within the
recurrent category, estimate the magnitude and changes in wages and salaries, non-wage operations and
maintenance expenditures (especially irrigation and rural roads), implicit and explicit subsidies.
(c) Evaluation of public expenditures including:
(i)  Assessment of adequacy, efficiency and targeting of sectoral expenditures taking account of the state's
overall development objectives, sub-sectoral objectives and the existing fiscal and financial situation;
(ii) Evaluation of the costs and benefits of selected programs and schemes (central as well as state government
funded) in the sector. The particular schemes to be evaluated would be determined annually in
consultation with the APC and the World Bank. The evaluation should include an assessment of the extent
to which the scheme meets stated objectives, particularly targeting towards the poor if relevant, and
estimate the economic rate of return of the scheme;
(iii) Recormnendations based on above findings.
(d) Investigate the relationship, if any, between trends in observed public expenditures and: (i) private investment in
agriculture; (ii) sectoral growth;
(e) Financing of expenditures including:
(i) Main sources: Central loans and grants; Borrowing; State budget; Cesses/Surcharges.
(ii) Cost recovery by sub-sector;
(iii) Identification of areas of possible savings, rationalization of expenditures, and revision of tariff.
(f) Identify reforms where agriculture could contribute to stabilize the debt/GSDP ratio, bring interest payments to
manageable levels, and improve the flexibility and development impact of public expenditures.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                           Page 86
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 87
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                 Annex 3
ANNEX 3
UTTAR PRADESH DIVERSIFED AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
ESTMATED PROJECT COSTS
Project Component                                                  Local           Foreign        Total
-- - ---------- ---- ---US $ million----------
1. Support for Technology Development                              14.7             2.5            17.1
2. Establishment of Demand Drive Technology Dissemination          47.9             7.0            54.8
3. Support for Private Sector & PublicfPrivate Partnership          4.0             0.2             4.2
4. Increasing Access to Rural Infrastructure                       59.3             4.2            63.5
5. Support for Project Management & Economic Policy Analysis        8.8             6.4            15.3
6. PPF Reimbursement                                                1.0             0.0             1.0
Total                                                             135.7            20.3           156.0
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies and Price Contingencies                   3.8             0.6             4.4
Total Project Cost                                                139.5            20.9           160.5



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                           Page 88
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 89
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                             Annex 4
ANNEX 4
UTTAR PRADESH DIVERSIFIED AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
COST BENEFrT AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS SUMMARY
Introduction.
1 .    The main aim of the project is to support agricultural growth and diversification with greater cost recovery for public
services and increased privatisation. Major elements of the strategy include: increased participation by beneficiaries; improved
gender focus; strengthened technical support services; improved human resources; greater sustainability of land and water
management; strengthened commercial base; better incentive framework; reduced public expenditure by GOUP; and improved
enabling infrastructure and marketing. There are few direct and readily demonstrable relationships between project
interventions and incremental benefits since most of the technology gains will emerge through new participatory processes
involving large numbers of potential beneficiaries the outcome of which is difficult to predict. However farm modelling has
been attempted and it is expected that benefits would include incremental production through both yield gains and
diversification into higher value enterprises, yielding increased employment and incomes and improved sustainability.
Approach.
2.     The economic analysis presented here, together with the relevant sections of this PAD, attempts to answer the
following questions: (1) What is the likely Economic Rate of Return to the project? What is the degree of sensitivity to
changed parameters? (2) Does the project fit within the Country Assistance Strategy? (3) What are the alternatives to the
project? (4) What would be the fiscal impact? (5) What are the main risks, including particularly institutional risks, and how
would these impact on the project? (6) What is the likely poverty impact? (7) What would be the environmental impact? (8)
What is the case for public investment in these activities?
What is the likely Economnic Rate of Return of the project and the degree of sensitivity?
3.     The overall Economic Rate of Return to the project is estimated at 22 percent. Tables and disc are available in the
project file.) The economic analysis quantifies: (i) the technology dissemination component, where there are major
interventions in livestock, horticulture, sericulture and agriculture;and, (ii) the rural infrastructure component, where there are
complementary investments in rural roads and markets. Project investments are planned in 70 selected Districts but within
those 70 Districts 32 of them are Districts of main focus with at least three components. Within Districts there is selectivity
also with typically about 5 out of about 12 blocks per District being selected (the list is available in the Project File). The aim
is to have some concentration of effort in what is seen as a first phase project. Policy changes already undertaken, or to be
undertaken during the project period, would support the investment interventions. There are expected to be further additional
benefits in the longer term from the technology generation components, the participatory components, and the overall
institutional and coordination components which would fall outside the immediate selected project areas and five year time
frame but these have not been quantified.
4.     Financial Base Costs are expressed in 1997 prices. Economic values for the non-traded component of project costs
have been estimated using a Standard Conversion Factor of 0.9. It is argued that little is gained by refining this to specific
coefficients by item. Specific economic import and export parity prices have been estimated for major traded items on the basis
of world market price projections. Unskilled labor was adjusted by a factor of 0.9. The period of analysis was 20 years. An
opportunity cost of capital of 12% was used.
5.     Technology Dissemination. There are four sub-components: livestock, sericulture, horticulture, and agriculture, the
last two components have been modelled together in whole farm system models except for the hills area fruit component
represented by apples which was treated separately. It should be noted at the outset that in an integrated project of this type
individual component ERRs need to be interpreted with great caution.
(a) Livestock (ERR. 26%). There are two main branches of the livestock component: an Al component and an
improved natural breeding component both supported by improved husbandry technology dissemination and together
covering cattle, buffalo, sheep, goats, and pigs. The small stock particularly are aimed at improving incomes for the
poor. For the improved breeding the incremental number of artificial inseminations from both refurbished centers and
through project established para-vets provides the basis for the numbers projected. The assumption is that due to the
combined effect of AI, improved nutrition and health care, there would be incremental production of milk from
crossbreds and milk and meat from buffaloes. There would also be an increased production and quality of meat from



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 90
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                              Annex 4
improved sheep, pigs and goats from the introduction of the open nucleus breeding system and better extension.
These benefits are set against the increased costs of feed, health care, animal upkeep, etc. Overall herd build up was
derived from herd models to ensure internal consistency and realistic build-ups. Representative key assumptions are:
milk yields for cows rising by year 10 to a conservative 1800 litres per cow per year against a without project scenario
of 1500 liters; insemination conception rates rising from 0.4 to 0.6 after 4 years; AI economic costs of Rs 30 per
service; costs of incremental feeding and health care of improved over nondescript animals has been included. In the
base case milk was valued at current domestic prices due to lack of reliable forecasts for future traded milk prices.
The alternative would have beeen to use an importable hypothesis which calculations indicate would, at current
prices, raise the price by about 60 percent. However, international prices have been trending downwards over the past
year so this price has not been used in the base case. All project overhead costs for the livestock component were
included. Detailed assumptions are contained inTable set A and B (Livestock Sections) in the Economic Analysis
Working Tabulations in the Project File. This component is not very sensitive to changes in assumptions.
(b) Sericulture. (ERR 17%) Economic analysis of the sericulture component is based on two major economic
activities of cocoon rearing and raw silk production. Cocoon rearing incremental benefits are based on a without
project situation which is a typical crop production cropping pattern since very little cocoon rearing is undertaken in
UP at present. An assessment is then added of the value added from further processing in the form of reeling. This
component also offers potential for some benefits that are not easy to measure including: employment increases for
under-employed family labor, increased control over assets by women. Key assumptions are the following: 8450 ha
of new mulberry giving 6400 mt of cocoons by year 7, the equivalent of about 750 mt of raw silk. This represents a
substantial increase on the very low level of production of 20 mt current production but demand in UP is 3,000 mt
and demand nation-wide is rising faster than production so marketing is not expected to be a problem. Yields of
600kg of cocoons per ha at Rsl 15 per kg are assumed. In 60 percentof cases mulberry would replace subsistence
crops, in 40 percent mulberry would go on fallow or waste land; current financial prices are used which are linked to
world prices and are considered conservative for the coming decade; costs for reeling are based on model 20-basin
units. Project overhead costs included were all the sericulture component overheads except the seed farm costs
because seed costs are included in the production models. The ERR is modest and sensitive to assumptions on costs
and benefits. The component is still considered justified given the new industry status in UP, the differential impact
on the poor and the suitability of UP with respect to climate and resources. Detailed analysis is in Table set C in the
Economic Analysis Working Tabulations in the Project File.
(c) Horticulture (ERR with agriculture = 49%) Except for the hills fruit component represented by apples this has
been modelled as part of the whole farm system analysis together with agriculture. Project activities focus on
providing the foundation for improvement through training of key staff, ensuring high quality planting material, and
building expertise in the neglected area of post-harvest technology. In this component, rate of uptake is particularly
uncertain since the technologies are new and there are uncertainties about the rate of uptake of planting material at
full cost. Nevertheless, demand for horticulture products is rising quite rapidly and during preparation quite detailed
marketing studies were undertaken. The project is addressing the issue of improved marketing informnation. The
analysis has focussed mainly on mango, apples and potato as representative crops for fruit and vegetables. But a
number of other fruits and vegetables would be given attention. Key assumptions for mango are: yields of improved
mango reaching about 15 to 20 tons per ha by maturity, depending on variety and mango prices averaging Rs8 per
kg. Project overhead costs included were all the horticulture costs.
(d) Agriculture. (ERR 49% combined with horticulture) Representative farm models were developed for four zones:
Eastern UP (two models - a 0.4 ha model and a 1.5 ha model, Western UP (two models - a 0.5 ha model and a 1.8 ha
model), Bundelkhand (two models - a 1.5 ha model and a 3.5 ha model) and the Hills Zone (one model - an apple
orchard model). All models accomodate the two season kharif and rabi pattern. All except the apple model were
developed using the FARMOD computerised analysis package. They include the following representative crops:
wheat, paddy, sorghum, mango (two types), oilseeds, potato, moong, chickpea, citrus, soyabean. The above
representative models are a distillation and simplification of a larger range of models developed during project
preparation. Yield increases arising from improved technologies were different for each crop but typically were in the
range of 20% to 40% over a five year period from first adoption of a full package. Adoption rates of full pacakges
assumed were very conservative, about 5% of the hectarage and/or farners by Year 6. However, the reality in the end
may be larger numbers going for more partial adoption, at least initially. (The models were built to try to reflect the
project's systems approach at the farm level with more than one adoption adjustment at the farm level, usually related
to land use changes arising from diversification into a new commodity combined with an improvement in husbandry



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 91
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultrum Support Project                                                   Annex 4
in one or more existing enterprises, in some cases adding a 'catch crop'.) Larger numbers adopting fewer innovations
per farm would tend to cancel out in the economic analysis although under that scenario there would remain
complementarities at the farm level unexploited. Making realistic projections in this case is complicated by the
following two facts: (i) only modest investments are being put directly into agriculture yet a number of these are
expected to be key institutional changes in advancing technologies and sustainability and these are likely to spill over
outside the immediate selected project areas, such spill-over has not been counted; (ii) the technology dissemination
component, while following a new approach involving NGOs, will still rely considerably on the existing structure as
the new modalities evolve, thus existing on-going extension service expenditures will contribute to the benefit stream
although they are clearly non-incremental to the project since they would be incurred with or without the project;
these have not been included in the cost stream, they would, of course, lower the ERR; however, equally important,
the analysis also avoids claiming benefits that might arise from those on-going expenditures and which cannot largely
be attributed directly to the project investments themselves.
Traded inputs such as fertiliser and traded commodities (wheat and rice) were priced at border estimated prices using
World Bank forecasts (see Tlable 2 in the Working Tables). Project overhead costs included were all the agriculture overheads.
The ERR is high and not sensitive to changed assumptions. The high ERR at even modest adoption percentages should not be
misinterpreted. It reflects: (i) the large scale of UP agriculture, in effect the huge market for any technological innovation; (ii)
the potential to raise incomes through diversification as incomes and demand for higher value products rise; (iii) the fact that
the enabling market and roads component costs are not attributed to the agriculture/horticulture component (conversely the
lower ERR to the roads component would be higher were a share of the agriculture/horticulture benefits attributed to it); (iv)
the fact that a number of investments that will contribute to agriculture and horticulture growth, such as the participatory/NGO
investments and the technology investments, are not attributed directly to this component because they impact on all
components including livestock. As noted above, in an integrated project of this type individual component ERRs need to be
interpreted with great caution. The detailed analysis, including the FARMOD tables and the separate Hills Apples component
are in Table set D in the Economic Analysis Working Tabulations in the Project File.
6. Rural Infrastructure. There are two components, rural roads and rural markets.
(a) Rural Roads. (ERR = 14%) Project roads are roads which are being upgraded . In the component analysis these
investments have been justified on the basis of savings on traffic costs alone. The impacts on agricultural and,
particularly, horticultural production from road improvement are assumed to be captured within the agriculture
component analysis. Because of the risk of double counting reduction in losses of perishable products, which is
currently very high, have not been added to the roads component analysis. The economic analysis for roads consisted
of two parts: (i) initial screening criteria for road selection which acted as a proxy for an economic evaluation of
alternatives since it was based on criteria such as traffic volume and population densities; (ii) economic evaluation of
representative roads. The screening criteria used included: cost of improvement and maintenance, access to existing
market/service centers, population served, existing traffic volumes, cultivated area, share of perishable commodities,
need for land aquisition and environmental considerations. Assumptions were different for each of the sample roads
but the following is indicative: 4 percent growth for traffic, a shift of 20 percent of pedestrian/bicycle traffic to light
vehicles after improvement and of 10 animal drawn vehicles per day to trucks. Based on analysed operating cost data
truck operating costs were assumed to fall from Rs12 per vehicle km on existing roads (which are in bad condition) to
Rs7 after improvement. Details of the analysis are given in the Economic Analysis Working Tabulations in Table set
E in the Project File.
(b) Rural Markets. 'The benefits would include improved efficiency of market operations, increased throughput
resulting in lower unit costs, reduced spoilage, agricultural production benefits from reduced crop losses and
increased production due to improved prices. However,as indicated above, the benefits from rural market
improvement have not been separately estimated in the ERR calculation although earlier in the project preparation
excercise such an analysis was done. It has been discarded because of the considerable risk of double counting in such
an excercise. The assumption has been made that the benefits from markets are covered by the benefits from the
technology dissemination components. Nevertheless, indicative analyses done for the rural markets component
during project preparation indicated that the annualised capital cost of market improvement does not exceed RsO. I per
kg of market throughput compared with a typical produce sales price of at least Rs5 per kg so only a quality or
reduced losses gain of 2 percent would cover the marketing investment costs. It is expected that actual improvements
would give much greater gains than this. Typically losses have been in the order of 20 percent. A willingness to pay
analysis was also done for a sample market which suggested that a first year only financial rate of return on the



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 92
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                              Annex 4
investment would give a rate of return of between 5 percent and 11 percent. Another market analysis indicated that
with an increase in vegetable prices of only 5 percent the rate of return on first year alone would be about 25 percent.
7.     Sensitivity Analysis. The overall ERR is relatively insensitive to changes in assumptions about any one individual
component. However the Sericulture Component and the Roads Component with ERRs of 17 percent and 14 percent
respectively are quite sensitive to changed assumptions. This issue is discussed below. The most likely changes in
assumnptions and the associated ERRs would be the following:
(a) Slower take up or lower benefits in the Sericulture component due to slow establishment of the capacity to give
the proposed support or poorer than projected productivity or higher costs. If the sericulture benefits were down
by 10 percent the ERR forthe component drops from 17 percent to 10percent. If costs go up 10 percent the ERR
drops from 17 percent to 11 percent. If both happen together the ERR falls to three percent. It has been argued
above that for poverty and infant industry arguments there is a case for accepting these levels of ERR and
sensitivity.
(b) Roads costs up by 10 percent would reduce the ERR from 14 percent to 12 percent and costs up by 20 percent
would lower it to 10 percent. Benefits down by 10 percent would reduce the ERR of that component to 12
percent. The above changes would therefore represent switching values. However, given the linkages to the
productive components, especially related to horticulture loss reductions, which have been shown to be high (see
above) but have not been covered within the roads component analysis, isolating the component analysis in this
way within an integrated project design is not appropriate.
(c) Livestock costs up by 20 percent would reduce the component ERR from 26 percent to 24 percent and the project
ERR from 22 percent to 21 percent. Costs would have to climb by 120% to reach the switching value at which
the component ERR falls to 12 percent, the OCC. As discussed above, with milk prices up at a current prices
border parity level on an import assumption the ERR of the component would be above 35 percent. The ERR of
the AI component is considerably higher than the natural breeding component which, with it's approximate share
of 10 percent of the component overheads, gives an ERR of only 14 percent. The reason is intuitive, essentially
that diluting semen pays. However, it would be wrong to discard the natural breeding component because, again,
there are linkages. The AI component, in order to retain the genetic stock variety, needs the natural breeding
component to survive in the longer term.
(d) Project Overheads would have to climb substantially to significantly lower the ERR, a 50 percent increase in
overheads would still give an ERR of 19 percent.
(e) A more probable downside scenario would be a slow start-up and take-off. If the Net Benefit stream is lagged
two years behind the Project Overhead Costs the ERR falls to 16 percent and three years would take it below the
OCC. The history of the performance of similar types of project does make this a not unrealistic scenario.
However, the UP Sodic Lands Project, from which this project design has drawn a great deal, does not appear to
be following the same pattern and attention has been paid to ensuring early start-up and quick procurement.
(f) With respect to the overall project ERR, a decrease of 20 percent in the benefits gives an 18 percent ERR.
Benefits would have to fall by about 40 percent to reach the OCC. Costs would have to rise by over 40 percent to
reach the OCC.
Within the process of implementation the economic sensitivity issue has been addressed by agreeing that there would
be substantial flexibility to redirect priorities at the point of the Mid-Tern review at which point revised economic analyses
would be undertaken to try to pick up trends in emerging economic performance and reassess priorities.
Does the proposed project fit within the Country Assistance Strategy?
8.     This is discussed in Block 2, Section 5 of the PAD. The project addresses four particular areas in the CAS strategy:
(a) Poverty. UP is a huge and very poor state with many small and marginal farmers. There are about 19 million
farms below 2 hectares covering over 10 million hectares. The project aims to provide improved technologies
and infrastructure to these farmers in selected blocks potentially covering in this first project about one third of



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 93
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultjral Support Project                                                  Annex 4
the farming population of UP . The attention to participatory approaches drawing on the experience of the Sodic
Lands Project is the most important element in a strategy that would give the poor and women an increasing say
in rural development affairs. Special attention is given to technologies that are of interest to the poor and landless,
including particularly small livestock and sericulture.
(b) Policy Refornm. The Policy Matrix in this Annex outlines the range of policy changes already accomplished and
the changes expected under the project.
(c) Fiscal sustainability is a major focus of the CAS. During project preparation a fiscal sustainability study of the
agriculture sector was carried out which has contributed to the development of the schedule of increased cost
recovery. Over the life of the project cost recovery on a large number of items currently supplied by government
will rise up to or close to 100 percent. Attachment 2 of Annex 2 gives the agreed list of items and phasing.
(d) Capacity building is a major objective of the CAS. The project has a major focus on three areas of capacity
building:
(i)  institutional change;
(ii) training; and
(iii) planning.
What are the alternatives to the project?
9.     No complete alternative project was contemplated. It was always clear that such a vast poor state like UP had
potential for some form of significant rural development project. The choices were more related to what combination of
policies and investments would be included on what scale and how far was it realistic to move on policy reform. However, an
unusually large number of potential investment components were subjected to preliminary analysis and were dropped for a
variety of reasons, mainly where there were doubts about the economics, or due to concern to reduce complexity of project
design, or where they were considered to be better suited to a separate project. The alternatives considered are outlined in
Block 2, Section 8 of the PAD. With respect to policy, a middle way was adopted, partly in acknowledgement that
considerable strides had been already made in UP over the last three years and partly because of a rapidly changing political
situation which made policy discussion and rapid action more difficult (see PAD text, Section B 2)..
What is the fiscal sustainability of the project?
10.    Block 3 of the PAD (Fiscal Impact section) addresses this. Briefy, cost recovery is a major focus of the project (see
Table 2). From the year 2003 UP would gain about Rs 90 million annually from the cost recovery measures. However,this is
not large relative to the larger subsidy costs related to irrigation, power and fertiliser (which are largely a center rather than a
state issue). Nevertheless, the move to full cost recovery in a large number of items will open the door to privatisation in a
number of areas over the project period and this would be a major thrust of a Phase 2 project.
What are the main risks including the institutional risks and how would they impact?
11.    This is covered in the PAD Block 3, Section 21 .The main risks are the following:
(a) That procurement and overall implementation will be slower than anticipated. This is addressed in the sensitivity
analysis. Briefly, if the project took seven years instead of five years to reach its five year development level the
ERR would fall to 16 percent.
(b) That the participatory process would not work well due to lack of experience and slow impact of the training
program. The impact of this on the ERR is very difficult to quantify but could be similar to (i) above. This is the
area of greatest uncertainty since the approaches are relatively new, albeit tried with substantial success in the UP
Sodic Lands Reclamation Project on which many of this project's processes are modelled.
(c) That there would be either very slow policy change or even policy reversal. This would have an impact on the



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 94
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                Annex 4
incentive environment and on the fiscal situation since much of the reform is related to cost recovery and
privatisation. The impacts on this would be longer term and are difficult to predict but would certainly be serious
with implications far wider than the project itself
What is the expected poverty impact?
12.    The scale of UP agriculture in terms of both people and resources is enormous. As indicated above there are about 19
million farms below 2 hectares, about 15 million below I hectare. A substantial proportion of the project activities are
activities that are generally undertaken by the poor, including sericulture, dairy farming, sheep, goats, pigs, vegetables etc.
Farm models indicate that with adoption of three or four enterprise innovations and with a small move towards diversification
into horticulture, small farm families on farms below 1 hectare could about double incomes (which are currently very low). In
addition levels of participation by women in the activities listed above, as both decision makers and workers, is high. With the
project, women would also have access to institutional credit for the first time. Commercial banks have agreed to lift their
restrictions on provision of credit to women. It is expected that the participatory approaches built into the project and
borrowed from the Sodic Lands Project would help to give voice to the poor. This will be complemented by the
decentralisation decisions to the Panchayats indicated in the Policy Reform matrix.
What would be the environmental impact?
13.    See the Environmental Section of the PAD. No environmental costs or benefits have been included in the economic
analysis. The project would be predominantly positive for the environment. There would be a possibility of a limited potential
negative impact from the roads component. But since all roads would follow existing alignments, since the work will
incorporate drainage works, and since, precisely for environmental reasons, no hill roads are being picked up, the likelihood of
negative impacts is small. The selection and design for the rural roads has taken into account environmental concerns.
14.    Potential negative impacts from the use of inputs would be minimised through: (a) development of Integrated Pest
Management; (b) strengthening of soil analysis capacity; (c) a focus on rotational cropping with legumes and overall
diversification. In addition a permanent environmental oversight unit would be established within the PCU.
What is the case for public investment in these activities?
15.    A main aim of the project is to initiate the process of increasing private participation in the sector through the
following means:
(a) Project Development Facility;
(b) the use of para-vets and private veterinarians;
(c) private contractors to supply semen and liquid nitrogen;
(d) increased cost recovery on most items publicly supplied;
(e) leasing out of government farms;
(f) establishment of a competitive research fund;
(g) deregulation of monopoly procurement of cocoons;
(h) development of the Registered Society ATMA concept for technology disemination
The public investments in roads and rural markets are important and neccessary supportive investments. Other
justified areas of public investment proposed are the very important technology development and disemination components,
the community participation elements, NGO support, and the training components. There are a number of environment related
investments where there is also a rationale for public investment on externality grounds, for example, the Integrated Pest
Management and soil nutrient work, the soil analysis capacity, and the enviromnental oversight unit.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 95
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                     Annex 4
Financial Analysis
16.    The question to be answered under this heading is whether the investments expected to be taken up by rural families
are likely to be profitable and likely to be sufficiently profitable to ensure adoption. In all cases the profitability modelled is
satisfactory. However, it should be noted that the farm enterprises modelled are only intended to be representative and,
particularly with horticulture crops, a range of alternatives may be chosen depending on prices, risk, etc. Briefly the models
indicate the following:   --
(a) In individual crop enterprises typical income increases from adoption of technology improvements within the
enterprise are 25 percent to 30 percent.
(b) In whole farm adoptions of combinations of improved technologies on several crops and adjustments to higher
value crops typical income increases over 10 years are about 100 percent with an IRR of about 45 percent.
(c) In marginal farm situations, for example 0.4 ha farm in Eastern UP before project incomes below the poverty line
of around Rs5000 per year, say US$4 per day, increase to about double, Rs1O,000, say US$8 per day, after 10
years.
(d) In sericulture, net income on a 0.4 ha plot rises from Rs5000 per year to about Rs13500 after 8 years with an IRR
of over 100%.
(e) In livestock, profitability depends very much on sources of feed. Net income is projected to rise from about
Rs6000 per cow per year to about Rs9000 per cow.
(f) In small stock about a doubling of net income per head is expected.
The aspect of risk is difficult to model. Four main impacts can be expected. First, with rising average net incomes
farm families should be alble to withstand income variation better in terms of impact on basic family welfare. Second, a
number of the technology areas to be addressed under the project aim at improving water and nutrient management and thus
reducing downside risk with respect to yields, including lowering input costs by better fertiliser use. Third, diversification per
se should spread risks better by putting fewer eggs in the same basket. However, fourth, some of the diversification
enterprises, for example in horticulture, do expose farmers to an increase in risk related to prices of surplus commodities which
do not have any floor price mechanism. This will be addressed under the project through improving information and
encouraging cautious and fairly wide diversification for the smaller farmers. Overall it is not expected that risk will change
significantly except for those who diversify too aggressively across too narrow a range of commodities which is likely to be
the larger farmers pursuing high profit commodities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                 Page 96
U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                                              Annex 5



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 97
U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                            Annex 5
ANNEX 5
UTTAR PRADESH DIVERSIFIED AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Financial Summary
Years Ending
(Indicate currency, units and base year)
Implementation Period                         Operational Period
99      00       01       02       03     TOTAL
Project Costs
Investment Costs             21.0    33.9    28.2    25.8    18.3    127.2
Recurrent Costs                3.5      6.2     7.1      7.6      7.9    32.3
Refinancing PPF                1.0                                         1.0
Total                      25.5    40.1    35.3    33.4    26.2    160.5
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs!
IBRD (49.7%)                  12.7    19.9    17.5    16.6    13.0    79.7
IDA   (31.1%)                 7.9    12.5    11.0    10.4         8.1    50.0
Government (19.2)            24.9      7.7      6.8      6.4      5.1    30.8



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                        Page 98
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 99
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Suppon Project                                            Annex 6
ANNEX 6
1UTTAR PRADESH DIVERSIFIED AGRICULTURE SUPPORT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
1.     Civil Works (US$ 68.2 million):
Civil works in the project consists mainly of the construction of rural roads; construction of new buildings (non-
residential as well as residential) for the various departments; rehabilitation and refurbishment of existing offices and
laboratories; construction of poly houses and net houses; construction of seed farms (grainages) of sericulture; improvement of
haats/painths, improvement of cattle, horticulture and cocoon markets etc. Works would be procured following National
Competitive Bidding (NC]B) or Force Account procedures (Bank Procurement Guidelines January 1995, Revised January,
August 1996 and September 1997 ) as follows:
NCB: Works to an aggregate value of US $62.1 million equivalent would be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of NCB procedures acceptable to the IDA/Bank. The justification for proposed NCB for civil works is that the works are
located in widely scattered locations. The works would be grouped together into convenient packages for bidding; but the
largest contract is not likely to be more than the equivalent of US $1,000,000, so it is unlikely that foreign firms would fmd
such contracts attractive. Nonetheless, bids from foreign contractors would not be precluded.
Force Account: Works for rural markets estimated to cost less than US$30,000 per contract, and other works
estimated to cost the equivalent of US $20,000 or less per contract and farm development works upto an aggregate amount not
exceeding US $6.1 million may be undertaken by: (i) direct contracting including unit rate/piece rate system to qualified
contractors or registered NGOs or local community organizations; (ii) on the basis of comparison of price quotation obtained
from at least three qualified contractors eligible under the Guidelines or registered NGOs or local community organizations; or
(iii) by force account, in a manner satisfactory to IDA/Bank. These works are not suitable for competitive bidding due to small
amounts and remoteness of location. Materials for works carried out as above on force account valued in an aggregate of US
$4 million would be procured following national shopping procedures acceptable to IDA/Bank.
2.     Goods, Equipment, Furniture and Supplies (US $19 million): Goods consisting of communication equipment,
computers, scientific equipment, liquid nitrogen containers etc. would be procured following International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures (Bank Procurement Guidelines, January 1995, Revised January, August 1996 and September 1997).
However equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US $200,000 per contract upto an aggregate value of US $4.5
million would be procured following NCB procedures acceptable to IDA/Bank. Small items of equipment, urgent
requirements of computers, office equipment, furniture, air conditioners, generators, laboratory equipment and some scientific
equipment, field and laboratory supplies and some inputs etc. would be procured by the various implementmig agencies in
small lots over the five year period. Individual contracts are not expected to exceed US $20,000 and as such would be
procured using shopping procedures satisfactory to IDA/Bank, upto an aggregate amount of US$ 5.5 million. Rate contracts of
Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals (DGS&D) would be acceptable as a substitute for national shopping. Satellite
imagery, data, aerial photography, maps etc. valued at about US $0.3 million would be procured following direct contracting
procedures from organizations such as National Remote Sensing Agency, Survey of India and other organizations. Similarly
books, periodicals, extension and publicity materials, software, proprietary equipment and spares, livestock, semen, inputs
such as seeds, fertilizer, pesticides, and plants etc. valued in the aggregate at about US $4 million would be obtained under
direct contracting procedures since each contract would be small averaging less than $5000 per item.
3.     Vehicles (US $3 million): The requirement of vehicles which covers about 10 departments and 3 SAUs is spread over
the project period and thus would not be amenable to central and lumped procurement. Individual contracts are not likely to be
more than US $100,000. Hence these would be procured using shopping procedures/DGS&D rate contracts. However, if
bulked purchases over US$ 100,000 are undertaken, then they would be done using ICB procedures.
4.     Consultancies and Training (US $32.9 million): Technical Assistance and consultancy services for studies
(including technical audit of civil works for improvement of roads, preparation of project report for UPDASP Phase II,
specialized studies, and Project Development Facility) estimated in the aggregate at US $17.4 million would be contracted on
terms and conditions in accordance with IDA/Bank Guidelines for the use of Consultants (January 1997, Revised September
1997). A private sector company would be contracted for providing the Project Development Facility through open
competition following the QBCS procedure. Training (aggregating to a total of US $15.5 million) would be procured in two



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 100
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                              Annex 6
ways : first a service contract for placement and support of trainees for overseas training would be procured/arranged
foll6wing QCBS procedures with consultants requiring to demonstrate substantial local presence and experience; second, the
training would consist of placement and support of staff for short and long duration courses and fellowships in identified
foreign and local institutions. In addition study tours would be organized for staff and officers of the various departments both
within the country and abroad.
5.     Research Services (US $4.0 million): (a) Enhancing Research Coordination by strengthening of UP Council for
Agricultural Research (UPCAR) (b) Competitive Agricultural Research Program (CARP) to enhance the quality, relevance and
accountability of agricultural research. This program would be managed by UPCAR and would involve pre-project screening
of proposals, invitation to preparation of full project proposals, project proposal evaluation through a peer-review process and
approval. UPCAR would hire the services of consultants for the establishment and adoption of procedures for the operation of
the program. Work Program Agreements (WPAs) would be finalized based on a competitive process open to public
institutions, private sector, regular universities, NGOs and others to undertake agricultural research. WPAs would have
specified benchmark/deliverables against which initial, interim and final payments would be made. For this sub-component
Bank Consultant Guidelines do not apply. The process to be used for agreeing WPAs through CARP has been appraised by
IDA/Bank and would be kept under review.
6.     Recurrent Costs (US $32.3 million): These would cover salaries and honoraria of agreed incremental positions,
contract workers, operation and maintenance of works, equipment and vehicles (including hiring cost), travel for local training,
office supply and maintenance (including rent for office buildings) and computer consumable supplies, research consumable
such as laboratory chemicals but excluding fertilizer and pesticides for field experiments.
7.     Contract Review: All civil works, goods and equipment contracts valued at US $200,000 equivalent and above
would be subject to prior review by the Bank as per Para 2 Appendix I of Bank Procurement Guidelines (January 1995,
Revised January, August 1996 and September 1997). Except that the first two contracts between US$20,000 and US$200,000
for goods and the first two contracts between US$20,000 (US$30,000 in the case of rural markets) and US$200,000 for works
would be subject to prior review.
Prior review for consultancy contracts would be as follows:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of US $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs I and 2 [ other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)] and 5 of Appendix I to the Consultant
Guidelines shall apply;
(b) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of US $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent
of US $100,000 the procedures set forth in paragraphs I and 2 [ other than the second subparagraph of paragraph
2(a)] and 5 of Appendix 1 to the consultant Guidelines shall apply; and
(c) With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US
$50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants
shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after
said approval shall be given.
In addition, Annual Procurement Plans would be reviewed by IDA/Bank. This would result in a prior review of about
70 percent of all contracts awarded under competitive bidding. Selective post review of awarded contracts below threshold
levels would be carried out by IDA/Bank visiting missions.
8.     Procurement Information: Procurement information would be collected and recorded as follows:
(a) Prompt reporting of contract award information by PCU;
(b) Comprehensive semi-annual reports by PCU indicating:
(i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and total cost;
(ii) revised timings of procurement actions including advertising, bidding, contract award and completion



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 101
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Suppod Project                                               Annex 6
time for individual contracts; and
(iii) compliance with aggregate limits on the specified methods of procurement
(c) Completion report by the borrower within three months of the credit closing date.
9.     Procurement Schedule and Proposed Procurement Arrangements:
The proposed packages and the Procurement Schedule for the project is given in the PIP. Selection of consultancy
services would be undertaken in accordance with the selection plan presented in the PIP. The project's Training Plan is
presented in the PIP. The project elements, their estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement are summarized in
Table A. The thresholds for procurement methods and prior review are summarized in Table B.
10.    Procurement Cell:
The PCU would have a procurement cell to help with procurement of goods and equipment proposed under
competitive bidding. PCU already has capacity for this type of work as shown by competent preparation of the procurement
plan and handling of procurement issues during the pre-project period. This cell would be further strengthened by recruitment
of an experienced procurement officer and nationaVinternational hiring of selected staff. About one year after project
effectiveness performance of this cell would be assessed by the Bank supervision mission and, if necessry, appropriate
remedial measures would be recommended.
Civil works would be procured by the executing agencies of the GOUP. Technical audit of construction quality
would be undertaken by independent consultants (see para. 4 above).
11.    Research Expenditure:
A separate category for research expenditure will be introduced. To qualify for reimbursement these items would
have to be for eligible research programs which would be required to meet the following criteria:
(a)    The specific research proposal would have passed through the agreed review process and have been formally
accepted by UPCAR.
(b)    Expenditures would not include new buildings;
(c)    Expenditure would not cover incremental staff salaries, only contracts of essential research assistants and
research fellows assigned to particular research program; and
(d)    The initiated research proposal would be scheduled to be completed within the life of the project or would be
covered by an express commitment to continue funding at the required level after project closing.
Disbursement
12.    The Credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 80 percent of the costs of civil works;
(b) 100 percentof foreign or ex-factory costs, or 80% of local costs, for goods, equipment and vehicles;
(c) 100 percent of the costs of consultants, training and contracted services;
(d) 100 percent of the cost of research services; and
(e) 80 percent through March 31, 2000, 60 percent through March 31, 2002 and 40 percent thereafter for incremental
staff and operating costs.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 102
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                              Annex 6
13.    The Credit/Loan would be disbursed in accordance with Table C of this Annex. Disbursements are projected over a
period of five years from July 1998. Project completion is expected by September 30, 2003 and Credit/Loan closing by March
31, 2004. All requests for disbursements would be prepared by the PCU and reflect the implementation schedule specified in
the Annual Action Plans. Disbursement for civil works, goods and equipment contracts packages exceeding US$200,000
equivalent would be fully documented and subject to prior review by the Bank. For consultants, this limit would be
US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals. For all other expenditures, Bank funds would be disbursed agains
statements of expenditures (SOEs) in an agreed format and in accordance with the Bank's normal procedures for SOEs. SOEs
would be certified by GOI as representing eligible project expenditures. Supporting documents for SOEs would be available
for post-review by supervision missions and auditors, and retained by PCU for one year after Bank receipt of the audit report
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit/Loan account was made. The procedures for preparing SOEs
would be project expenses summarized monthly by the PCU and put under expense headings agreed with the Bank, certified
by the authorized officer and forwarded to the Controller of Aid Accounts and Audit at DEA within 30 days of each month-
end.
Retroactive Financing and Special Account
14.    To assist with project preparation activities and to expedite project start-up, IDA/Bank would finance project costs
incurred after August 31, 1997 up to a limit of SDR 4.5 million (US$6 million), provided IDA/Bank procurement procedures
were followed. The activities to be covered by retroactive financing would include: (a) pre-project pilot activities related to all
project components including the rural infrastructure; (b) project management capacity establishment; (c) activities related to
M&E; and, (d) national and international, fact-fmding visits, training and workshops. In order to facilitate timely payments
of project expenditures, a Special Account amounting to US$6.5 million (equivalent to four months expenditure) would be
established in the Reserve Bank of India. The account would be replenished quarterly or when the account is drawn down to
about 50 percent of the initial deposit, whichever occurs first.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                    Page 103
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                          Annex 6
Table A
U. P. DIVERSIFIED AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Project Element                         Procurement Method          NBF   Total Cost
ICB     NCB   Others*              US $M
1    Works:
1.1   Rural roads                                                          53.7       1                   54.7
(42.9)    (0.8)               (43.8)
1.2   Construction of new buildings (non-residential and                    8.4       5.1                 13.5
residential ); rehabilitation and refurbishment of                    (6.7)    (4.3)               (10.8)
existing offices, laboratories and construction of
seed farms, improvement of haats/panths;
improvement of cattle, cocoon markets etc.
construction of poly houses, net houses; etc.
Total 1    0.0    62.1      6.1      0.0        68.2
(49.7)    (4.9)               (54.6)
2    Goods:
2.1   Communication and scientific equipment, computers, liquid nitrogen  4.7  4.5    5.5                 14.7
containers, office, scientific equipment, etc.               (3.8)   (3.6)    (4.4)                (11.8)
2.2   Vehicles                                                                        3.0                  3.0
(2.4)               (2.4)
2.3   Satellite imagery, maps, research data etc.                                     0.3                  0.3
(0.2)               (0.2)
2.4   Books, periodicals, extension and publicity materials, software,                4.0                  4.0
proprietary equipment, spares, livestock, seeds, plants, fertilizer,           (3.2)                (3.2)
pesticides, etc.
Total 2    4.7    4.5      12.8      0.0        22.0
(3.8)   (3.6)   (10.2)               (17.6)
3    Consultancies and Training:
3.1   Consultancy services including procurement and quality supervision             17.4                 17.4
of roads                                                                      (17.4)               (17.4)
preparation of project report, studies, project
development facility etc.
3.2   Training and workshops (foreign and local)                                     15.5                 15.5
(15.5)              (15.5)
Total 3    0.0    0.0      32.9      0.0        32.9
(32.9)              (32.9)
4    Research Services                                                               4.0                  4.0
Total 4                    (4.0)                (4.0)
5    Recurrent Costs:
5.1   Salaries, allowances and honoraria                                             6.5                   6.5
(3.9)               (3.9)
5.2   Contract workers                                                               4.2                   4.2
(2.5)                (2.5)
5.3   O&M Costs                                                                       9.4                  9.4
(5.7)                (5.7)
5.4   Travel Expenses                                                                 4.3                  4.3
(2.6)               (2.6)
5.5   Offices supplies and materials                                                  6.3                  6.3
(3.8)               (3.8)
5.6   Others                                                                          1.5                  1.5
(0.9)                (0.9)
Total 5    0      0        32.3      0          32.3
(19.8)               (19.8)
Project Preparation Facility                                   1.0                  1.0
(1.0)               (1.0)
TOTAL PROJECT COST                         4.7    66.6      89.2       0        160.5
(3.8)  (53.3)   (71.8)              (129.9)
Includes National Shopping and Force Account (Procurement of Small Works)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 104
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                       Annex 6
Table B
UTTAR PRADESH DIVERSIFIED AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category       Contract Value      Procurement Method   Contracts subject to Prior
(Threshold)                                        Review
1. Works:
Civil Works              >US $20,000           NCB                     US $200,000 and above
<US $20,000          Force Account            None
2. Goods
Goods, equipment,        >US $200,000          ICB                     US $200,000 and above
Furniture, Supplies
Materials                >US $20,000           NCB
<US $20,000          Shopping/
Direct Contracting
3.Vehicles:
<US $100,000          Shopping/ DGS&D
rate contracts
4. Consultancies                               In accordance with      US $100,000 and above for
studies. Training                              IDA/Bank Guidelines    firms
US $50,000 and above for
Iidividuals
1/ The first two contracts for goods between US$20,000 and US$200,000 and the first two contacts for works between US$20,000 (US$30,000 in the case of rural
markets) and US$200,000 would be subject to prior review.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 105
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                    Annex 6
Table C
U. P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                Amount in US$million   Financing Percentage
(1) Civil Works                                            51.9           80%
(2) Equipment, materials and vehicles                      16.7           100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 80%
of local expenditures
for other items
purchased locally.
(3) Consultants' (including NGOs' services) and            27.3           100%
training
(4) Research services                                      4.0            100%
(5) Incremental operating costs                            18.5           80% through March
31, 2000, 60% through
March 31, 2002, and
40% thereafter
(6) Refund of project preparation advance                   1.0           100%
(7) Unallocated                                            10.5
Total          129.9



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                          Page 106
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 107
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                    Annex 7
ANNEX 7
UTTAR PRADESH DIVERSIFIED AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
A. Project Budget (US$000)                               Planned                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)
US$1.7 million
B. Project Schedule                                     Planned                   Actual
(At revised EPS stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)                     7/12/193                 _/12/193
Appraisal mission departure                            _/01/1992:               11/01/1997
Negotiations                                            a/..J1997               4/13/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness (Board 1/97)              09/30/198               09/30/1998
Prepared by: UPCAR, GOUP
Preparation assistance: Japanese Grant Fund, FAO/Investment Centre and SASRD
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Salman Salman     - Lawyer
Cecil Perera      - Disbursement
Ashok Seth        - Agriculturist
Hamdy Eisa        - Agriculturist
Douglas Forno     - Agriculturist
Ridley Nelson     - Agricultural Economist
Robin Mearns      - Social Scientist
Deepak Ahluwalia  - Agricultural Economist
Harideep Singh    - Financial Analyst
Sanjay Vani       - Financial Analyst
M. Balasubramanian - Agriculturist
N. Raman           - Procurement
K.N. Venkataraman - Procurement
Vajeara Dorabawilla- Economist
Brenda Scott      - Team Assistant
Marcia Whiskey    - Team Assistant
Vivi Scott         - Team Assistant



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                      Page 108
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 109
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                 Annex 8
ANNEX 8
UTTAR PRADESH DIVERSIFIED AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
UP Diversified Agriculture Support Project Preparation Report Vol. 1, II, and III
FAO Investment Center Division Report No: 96/092 CP-IND, 24 September 1996
Relevant Working Papers included in Vol. II and III
Credit
Project Development Facility
Rural Markets
Research (Technology Development)
Strengthening Extension and support Services (Technology Dissemination)
Livestock
Livestock Production Development Component - Cost Recovery Issues
Bivoltine Sericulture
Post-Cocoon Sector
Market Prospects for Sericulture Industry in Uttar Pradesh
Market Prospects for Horticultural Products in Uttar Pradesh
Land Resource Management
GOUP Project Implementation Plan prepared with the help of FAO Investment Center, February 27, 1998
Vol. I         -       Main Report
Vol. II (a)    -       Annex 1-8
Vol. 11 (b)    -       Annex 9-23
Vol. III       -       Project Cost Tables
Vol. IV        -       Working Paper on Economic and Financial Analysis
Vol. V(a)      -       Procurement Plans and Schedules: Civil works
Vol. V(b)      -       Procurement Plans and Schedules: Goods and Materials
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Working Paper on Economic Analysis] Included as part of the Project
Detailed Project Cost Tables     ] Implementation Plan Vol. III and IV
C. Other
General
Socio-Agro-Economic Profiles of agro-Climatic Regions of UP, 1994
Zonal Analysis of Comparative Advantages and Constraints in Agricultural Diversification by U.K. Srivatava, 1994
Strategy for Agricultural Development in Uttar Pradesh - Post Reform Period - Dr. Rita Sharma, 1996
Related to Public Expenditure Review in Agriculture
Review of Expenditure on Agriculture in Uttar Pradesh by O.P Agarwal, 1995
Review of Expenditure on agriculture in Uttar Pradesh - Additional study by O.P. Agarwal, 1996
Fiscal Sustainability in Uttar Pradesh - the Bajaj Study, 1997
Related to Technology Development and Dissemination (additional to working papers included in the preparation
report)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 1 10
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                Annex 9
Research an Human Resource Development - M.D. Pathak, 1995
Restructuring of UPCAR and State Funding for Agricultural Research and Education - Raman and Raman, 1996
Improving Technology Dissemination Services
Part-I: Organization and Management
Part II: Agricultural Communication
Part III: Farners Organizations
Part IV: Human Resource Development
Horticulture Development
Horticulture in the Hill Region - Report prepared by ANZDEC Ltd., 1994
Uttar Pradesh Study - Prepared by High Value Horticulture Plc., 1995
Horticulture in the Hill Region by J.P. Nauriyal, 1995
Horticulture Interventions in the U.P. Plains by R.K. Pathak, 1995
Improving Post-Harvest Technology for Horticultural Crops in UP by Lisa Kitanoja, 1995
Research Needs in Sericulture in UP by S. Jayaraj, 1996
Integrated Pest Management in U. P. by S. Jayaraj, 1996
Improved Natural Resource management - A Working Paper prepared by FAO/CP, 1996
Soils, Fertilizers and Input Delivery Aspects by R.V. Misra, 1994
Integrated Plant Nutrient Management by R. V. Mishra, 1996
Related to Increased Private Sector Involvement
Private Sector Development in UP by C. Shastri, 1994
Related to Rural Infrastructure Development
Agricultural Regulated Markets: Institutional Study by U.K. Srivastava and D.C. Gupta, 1995
Traditional Haats and Melas in India by Pradeep Kashyap, 1995
Working Paper on Rural Roads and Rural Markets, 1996
*Including electronic files.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                 Page 111
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                                      Annex 9
ANNEX 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in India
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(As of March 31,1998)
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions          and actual
Loan or     Fiscal                                                                            disbursements a/
Project ID     Credit No.    Year              Purpose                                                      Original    Form
IBRD       IDA     Cancel-   Undis-   (SAR)    Revised
lations    bursed
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 375
Active Loans
IN-PE-10561   IBRD42960        .1998   NATL AGR TECHNOLOGY                96.80      0.00     0.00    96.80      0.00         0.00
IN-PE-10561   IDA30480          .1998   NATL AGR TECHNOLOGY                0.00   100.00      0.00    99.43      0.00         0.00
IN-PE-35160   IBRD42710        1998   HARYANA POWER APL-I                 60.00      0.00     0.00    60.00      0.00         0.00
IN-PE-35169   IDA30180         11998   U.P. FORESTRY                       0.00    52.94      0.00    52.55      0.00         0.00
IN-PE-38021   IDA30120          1998   DPEP III (BIHAR)                     0.00   152.00     0.00    146.13     2.31         0.00
IN-PE-49477   IDA30530          1998   KERALA FORESTRY                     0.00    39.00      0.00    38.80      0.00         0.00
IN-PE-50638   IDA30130          1998   UP BASIC ED II                      0.00    59.40      0.00    51.38    -6.69          0.00
IN-PE-9979    IBRD42260         1998   COAL SECTOR REHAB                 530.00      0.00     0.00   530.00      0.00         0.00
IN-PE-9979    IDA29860          1998   COAL SECTOR REHAB                   0.00      2.00     0.00      2.02     0.00         0.00
IN-PE-10473   IDA29360          1997   TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL                0.00   142.40      0.00   127.74    18.93          0.00
IN-PE-10511   IDA29640          1997   MALARIA CONTROL                     0.00   164.80      0.00   155.07      3.70         0.00
IN-PE-10531   IDAN0180          1997   REPRODUCTIVEHEALTHI                 0.00   248.30      0.00   234.88     11.20         0.00
IN-PE-35158   IBRD41660         1997   AP IRRIGATION III                  175.00     0.00     0.00   175.00   -12.32          0.00
IN-PE-35158   IDA29520          1997   APIRRIGATIONIII                     0.00   150.00      0.00    87.01   -12.32          0.00
IN-PE-36062   IDA29160          1997   ECODEVELOPMENT                      0.00    28.00      0.00    24.05      -.06         0.00
IN-PE-43728   IDA29300          1997   ENV CAPACITY BLDG TA                0.00    50.00      0.00    43.84       .90         0.00
IN-PE-44449   IDA29420          1997   RURAL WOMEN'S DEV                   0.00    19.50      0.00     18.19     3.60         0.00
IN-PE-45600   IBRD41140         1997   TAST'SRDINFRADEV                   51.50      0.00     0.00    42.10      9.60         0.00
IN-PE-49301   IBRD41560         1997   A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE                50.00      0.00     0.00    50.00    14.70          0.00
IN-PE49301    IDA29500          1997   A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE                 0.00   100.00      0.00    88.62    14.70          0.00
IN-PE-9995    IBRD41920        1997   STATE HIGHWAYS I(AP)               350.00      0.00     0.00   337.65    -2.35          0.00
IN-PE-10480   IBRD39230         1996   B SEWAGE DISPOSAL                 167.00      0.00     0.00   135.29    49.32          0.00
IN-PE-10484   IBRD40560        1996   UP RURAL WATER                      59.60      0.00     0.00    56.49      3.09         0.00
IN-PE-10485   IDA27740         1996   HYDROLOGY PROJECT                    0.00   142.00      0.00    110.04    29.10         0.00
IN-PE-10529   IDA28010         1996   ORISSA WRCP                          0.00   290.90      0.00   189.74   -18.68          0.00
IN-PE-35170   IBRD40140        1996   ORISSA POWER SECTOR                350.00      0.00     0.00   333.61    23.61          0.00
IN-PE-35821   IDA28760          1996   DISTRICT PRIM EDUC 2                0.00   425.20      0.00   368.98     19.74         0.00
IN-PE-35825   IDA28330          1996   STATE HEALTH SYS 11                 0.00   350.00      0.00   292.16    42.48          0.00
IN-PE-39935   IBRD39920         1996   ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE               200.00      0.00     0.00   175.00    43.00          0.00
IN-PE-39935   IDA28380         1996   ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE                  0.00      5.00     0.00     4.58    43.00          0.00
IN-PE-43310   IDA28620         1996   COALENV&SOCIALMIT.                   0.00    63.00      0.00    53.42      6.55         0.00
IN-PE-10461   IBRD39076        1995   MADRAS WATER SUP 11                269.80      0.00   189.30    69.85    95.00          2.76
IN-PE-10463   IBRD37790        1995   INDUS POLLUTION PREV                93.00      0.00     0.00    83.66    50.68          0.00
IN-PE-10463   IBRD37806        1995   INDUS POLLUTION PREV                50.00      0.00     0.00    44.60    50.68          0.00
IN-PE-10463   IDA26450         1995   INDUS POLLUTION PREV                 0.00    25.00      0.00    23.04    50.68          0.00
IN-PE-10464   IDA26610         1995   DISTRICTPRIMARYED                    0.00   260.30      0.00   151.08     11.76         0.00
IN-PE-10476   IDA27450         1995   TAMILNADU WRCP                       0.00   282.90      0.00   229.71     75.01         0.00
IN-PE-10489   IDA26630         1995   AP IST REF. HEALTHS                  0.00   133.00      0.00    95.97     18.46         0.00
IN-PE-10503   IDA26990         1995   AGRIC HUMAN RES DEVT                 0.00    59.50      0.00    41.47    24.59          0.00
IN-PE-10506   IDA27000         1995   MP FORESTRY                          0.00    58.00      0.00    33.26      4.23         0.00
IN-PE-10522   IDA27330         1995   ASSAM RURAL INFRA                    0.00   126.00      0.00    103.73    27.77         0.00
IN-PE-10563   IBRD38560        1995   FINANCIAL SECTORDEV                350.00      0.00     0.00   200.00  -167.50          0.00
IN-PE-10563   IBRD38576        1995   FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV               144.00      0.00     0.00   132.49  -167.50          0.00
IN-PE-10448   IDA25720         1994   FORESTRY RESEARCH                    0.00    47.00      0.00    28.09    19.43          0.00
EDUCATION
IN-PE-10449   IDA25730          1994   ANDHRA PRADESH                      0.00    77.40      0.00    38.28      9.97         0.00
FORESTRY
IN-PE-10455   IDA26110          1994   BLINDNESSCONTROL                    0.00   117.80      0.00    89.17    25.62          0.00
IN-PE-10457   IDA26300          1994   POPULATION IX                       0.00    88.60      0.00    59.40    11.06          0.00
IN-PE-34162   IDA25940          1994   MAHARASHTRA                          0.00   246.00    29.19    22.93    48.47         11.94
EARTHQUA
IN-PE-9870    IBRD37530         1994   CONTAINER TRANSPORT                 94.00     0.00     0.00    82.42    68.43          0.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                   Page 112
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                                         Annex 9
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions           and actual
Loan or      Fiscal                                                                             disbursements at
Project ID     Credit No.     Year              Purpose                                                      Original     Form
IBRD       IDA     Cancel-   Undis-   (SAR)    Revised
lations    bursed
IN-PE-9964    IDA25920          1994   WATER RES CONSOLID H                  0.00   258.00      0.00    165.81    58.01         0.00
IN-PE-10407   IDA24330          1993   ADP - RAJASTHAN                       0.00   106.00      0.00    35.79    22.03          0.00
IN-PE-10408   IDA24390          1993   BIHARPLATEAU                          0.00   117.00      0.00    74.43    72.63          0.00
IN-PE-10410   IDA24490          1993   RENEWABLERESOURCES                    0.00   115.00      0.00    78.34    97.82          0.00
IN-PE-10416   IBRD35770         1993   PGC POWER SYSTEM                   350.00      0.00      0.00    148.89    119.23        0.00
IN-PE-10418   IDA24830          1993   KARNATAKA WS & ENV/S                  0.00    92.00      0.00    59.98    49.18          0.00
IN-PE-10423   IBRD36320         1993   NTPC POWER GENERATIO               400.00      0.00      0.00    147.89    147.90        0.00
IN-PE-10424   IDA25280          1993   NATLLEPROSYELIMINA                    0.00    85.00      9.07    35.10    32.61        -4.46
IN-PE-9955    IDA25090          1993   UTTARPRADESHBASIC                     0.00   165.00      0.00    41.37     -9.69      -122.30
IN-PE-9959    IDA24090          1993   RUBBER                                0.00    92.00    36.58     31.39     53.74         2.07
IN-PE-9961     IDA25100         1993   UP SODIC LANDS RECLA                  0.00    54.70      0.00    24.97     11.01         0.00
IN-PE-9977    IDA24700          1993   ICDS II (BIHAR & MP)                  0.00   194.00      0.00    145.22    79.00        78.95
IN-PE-10390   IDA23280          1992   MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY                  0.00   124.00    16.18    53.01    58.49          38.62
IN-PE-10393    IDA23500         1992   AIDS PREVENTION AND                   0.00    84.00      0.00    14.89    15.46          0.00
IN-PE-10400   IBRD34980         1992   MAHARASHTRA POWER 11               350.00      0.00      0.00   237.75   235.94          0.00
IN-PE-9888    IBRD34360         1992   POWER UTIL EFFIC IMP               265.00      0.00    25.00     50.27    75.29         50.29
IN-PE-9921     IDA23290         1992   SHRIMP&FISHCULTUR                     0.00    85.00    48.51    23.98    67.30          13.83
IN-PE-9946    IBRD34700         1992   NAT. HIGHWAYS II                    153.00     0.00      0.00    153.00    64.12         0.00
IN-PE-9946    IDA23650          1992   NAT. HIGHWAYS 11                      0.00   153.00      0.00    37.23    64.12          0.00
IN-PE-9963     IDA23940         1992   POPULATION Vill                       0.00    79.00      0.00    63.83    49.06          0.00
IN-PE-10369   IDA22340          1991   MAHARASHTRA RURAL WS                  0.00   109.90      0.00    28.76    32.28          0.00
IN-PE-9877     IDA22410         1991   DAM SAFETY                            0.00   130.00    27.03     53.58    102.39        -1.64
IN-PE-9906    IBRD33340         1991   IND POLLUTION CONTRO                124.00     0.00      0.00    11.97      7.08         0.00
IN-PE-9906     IDA22520         1991   IND POLLUTION CONTRO                  0.00    31.60      0.00    10.73      7.08         0.00
IN-PE-9958     IBRD33000        1991   AGR.DEV.I (TN)                       20.00     0.00      0.00    20.00     17.87         0.00
IN-PE-9958     IDA22150         1991   AGR.DEV.I (TN)                        0.00    92.80      0.00     5.58     17.87         0.00
IN-PE-9988     IDA22230         1991   TECHEDUCII                            0.00   307.10    51.37    101.05   136.62         32.54
IN-PE-9860     IDA21310         1990   WTRSHPLAINS                           0.00    55.00      0.00    11.49    12.38          4.04
IN-PE-9882     IDA21000         1990   WTRSH HILLS                           0.00    75.00      0.00    24.87    33.40         20.40
IN-PE-9940     IDA21330         1990   POP. TRG (VII)                        0.00    86.70    22.74      2.26    28.47         -5.27
IN-PE-9965     IDA20760         1990   PUNJABIRR&DRAINAG                     0.00    150.00     4.72    21.37    24.50          5.79
IN-PE-9982     IBRD32370        1990   NOR REG TRANSM                      485.00     0.00      0.00   200.24   200.23          0.00
IN-PE-9989    IDA21300          1990   TECH EDUC I                           0.00   235.00    24.26     35.46    70.50         21.24
IN-PE-9869     IBRD30240        1989   NATHPA JHAKRI HYDRO                 485.00     0.00      0.00    158.57    158.56        0.00
IN-PE-9941     IBRD30960        1989   MAHARASHTRA POWER                  400.00      0.00    62.67     42.64    105.32        -1.15
IN-PE-9973     IBRD29940        1989   STATE ROADS I                       170.00     0.00    61.41      5.25    61.38          -.03
IN-PE-9990    IDA20080          1989   VOCATIONAL TRAINING                   0.00   250.00   116.15     18.09   159.21         18.21
Total                                                                    6,292.70  7,432.74   724.18  8,084.77  3,082.34      165.83
Active Loans       Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                4,703.22           30,874.00           35,577.22
of which has been repaid:                     208.27            9,395.23            9,603.50
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               12,792.95           20,854.59           33,647.54
Amount sold          :                             0.00              133.77              133.77
Of which repaid     :                            0.00              133.77              133.77
Total Undisbursed      :                       8,084.77               48.86            8,133.63
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance
(ARPP), a letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed
Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                         Page 113
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                               Annex 9
India
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Jan-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                              Disbursed
IFC                                    IFC
FY Approval                 Company             Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic      Loan      Equity    Quasi    Partic
1964/75/79/90              MUSCO                         0.00      1.08      0.00      0.00      0.00      1.08     0.00      0.00
1978/87/91/93              HDFC                         40.00      2.29      0.00      0.00    40.00      2.29      0.00      0.00
1981                       Nagarjuna Steel               0.00       .07      0.00      0.00     0.00       .07      0.00      0.00
1981/86/81/91/93/96        ITW Signode                   0.00      1.55      0.00      0.00      0.00      1.55     0.00      0.00
1981/86/89/94/92           TISCO                         6.46     15.37      0.00      0.00      6.46     15.37     0.00      0.00
1981/90/93                 M&M                            .67      6.49      0.00      2.67      .67      6.49      0.00      2.67
1982                       Modi Cement                  16.08      0.00      0.00      0.00     16.08     0.00      0.00      0.00
1984/90/94                 India Lease                   1.09       .86      0.00      0.00      1.09      .86      0.00      0.00
1984/91                    Bihar Sponge                 12.47       .68      0.00      0.00     12.47      .68      0.00      0.00
1986                       EXB-City Mills                 .48      0.00      0.00      0.00      .48      0.00      0.00      0.00
1986                       EXB-CECL                       .01      0.00      0.00      0.00      .01      0.00      0.00      0.00
1986                       EXB-NB Footwear                .19      0.00      0.00      0.00      .19      0.00      0.00      0.00
1986                       EXB-Paharpur                   .07      0.00      0.00      0.00      .07      0.00      0.00      0.00
1986                       EXB-STG                        .40      0.00      0.00      0.00      .40      0.00      0.00      0.00
1986                       EXB-TAN                        .03      0.00      0.00      0.00      .03      0.00      0.00      0.00
1986                       EXB-Wires & Fab.               .04      0.00      0.00      0.00      .04      0.00      0.00      0.00
1986/92/93/94              GESCO                         0.00     11.97      0.00      0.00      0.00     11.97     0.00      0.00
1986/93/94/95              India Equipment                .49       .77      0.00      1.20      .49       .77      0.00      1.20
1987                       Hindustan                     6.24      0.00      0.00      0.00      6.24     0.00      0.00      0.00
1987/88/90/93              Titan Watches                 1.32      1.03      0.00      0.00      1.32      1.03     0.00      0.00
1988/90/92                 Tata Telecom                  0.00       .10      0.00      0.00      0.00      .10      0.00      0.00
1988/94                    GKN Invel                     0.00      1.40      0.00      0.00      0.00      1.40     0.00      0.00
1989                       AEC                          12.55      0.00      0.00      0.00     12.55     0.00      0.00      0.00
1989                       UCAL                          0.00       .63      0.00      0.00      0.00       .63     0.00      0.00
1989/90/94                 Tata Electric                58.33      0.00      0.00      0.00     58.33     0.00      0.00      0.00
1989/91                    Gujarat State                 8.84      0.00      0.00      0.00      8.84     0.00      0.00      0.00
1989/95                    JSB India                     0.00      1.21      0.00      0.00      0.00      1.21     0.00      0.00
1990                       HOEL                          0.00       .28      0.00      0.00      0.00      .28      0.00      0.00
1990                       TDICI-VECAUS II               0.00      1.59      0.00      0.00      0.00      1.59     0.00      0.00
1990/92                    CESC                         45.69      0.00      0.00     63.65    45.69      0.00      0.00     63.65
1990/93/94                 IL&FS                        23.25      3.11      1.81      8.00    23.25      3.11      1.81      8.00
1990/94                    ICICI-IFGL                    0.00       .30      0.00      0.00     0.00       .30      0.00      0.00
1990/95                    ICICI-SPIC Fine               0.00      1.88      0.00      0.00      0.00      1.88     0.00      0.00
1991                       BSES                         42.50      0.00      0.00      0.00    42.50      0.00      0.00      0.00
1991/93                    Triveni                       0.00      1.11      0.00      0.00      0.00      1.11     0.00      0.00
1991/96                    VARUN                         9.53      1.35      0.00      4.67     9.53       1.35     0.00      4.67
1992                       Indus VC Mgt Co               0.00       .01      0.00      0.00     0.00       .01      0.00      0.00
1992                       Indus VCF                     0.00      1.00      0.00      0.00     0.00       1.00     0.00      0.00
1992                       Info Tech Fund                0.00      .64       0.00      0.00     0.00       .64      0.00      0.00
1992                       SKF Bearings                  4.78      0.00      0.00      0.00     4.78      0.00      0.00      0.00
1992/93                    Arvind Mills                  0.00     17.10      0.00      0.00      0.00     17.10     0.00      0.00
1992/94/97                 Ispatlndustries              79.11      5.77      0.00     85.00    39.25       5.77     0.00      0.00
1992/95                    Creditcapital VF              0.00      1.05      0.00      0.00      0.00      1.05     0.00      0.00
1992/96/97                 NICCO-UCO                     1.69       .50      0.00      0.00      1.69      .50      0.00      0.00
1993/94/96                 Indo Rama                    20.31     11.98      0.00      8.13    20.31      11.98     0.00      8.13
1993/97                    20TH Century                  15.62      .80      0.00      3.38     10.62      .80      0.00      3.38
1994                       Centurion Growth              0.00      2.39      0.00      0.00      0.00     2.39      0.00      0.00
1994                       Chowgule                     14.65      4.58      0.00     23.72     14.65     4.58      0.00     23.72
1994                       Crdcap Asset Mgt              0.00       .32      0.00      0.00      0.00      .32      0.00      0.00
1994                       DLF Cement                    9.37      4.94      0.00     13.39      9.37     4.94      0.00     13.39
1994                       Global Trust                  0.00      3.19      0.00      0.00      0.00     3.19      0.00      0.00
1994                       Gujarat Ambuja                0.00      8.23      0.00      0.00      0.00     8.23      0.00      0.00
1994                       Taurus Starshare              0.00      7.17      0.00      0.00     0.00      7.17      0.00      0.00
1994                       TCAMC                         0.00       .16      0.00      0.00      0.00      .16      0.00      0.00
1994/97                    GVK                          40.00      8.30      0.00     35.99     30.00     7.45      0.00     35.99
1995                       Centurion Bank                0.00      3.87      0.00      0.00      0.00     3.87      0.00      0.00
1995                       EXIMBANK                     22.73      0.00      0.00      0.00    22.73      0.00      0.00      0.00
1995                       GE Capital                   12.50      5.00      0.00      0.00     12.50     4.39      0.00      0.00
1995                       ISIC                          0.00       .32      0.00      0.00      0.00      .32      0.00      0.00
1995                       Prism Cement                 15.00      5.02      0.00     15.00     15.00      5.02     0.00     15.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                            Page 114
India - U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                                 Annex 9
Committed                               Disbursed
IFC                                     IFC
FY Approval                  Company             Loan     Equity    Quasi    Partic      Loan     Equity    Quasi    Partic
1995                        Rain Calcining               19.25      5.47      0.00      0.00     17.00      5.47      0.00      0.00
1995                       RPG Communicatns               0.00      8.30      0.00      0.00      0.00      8.30      0.00      0.00
1995                        SaraFund                      0.00      6.59      0.00      0.00      0.00      1.10      0.00      0.00
1996                        CVF Oil Gas-AL                8.00      8.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1996                       India Direct Fnd               0.00      7.50      0.00      0.00      0.00      1.80      0.00      0.00
1996                       Indus II                       0.00      5.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      3.00      0.00      0.00
1996                       Indus Mauritius                0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1996                        Moser Baer                    5.70       .60      0.00      0.00      5.70       .60      0.00      0.00
1996                        United Riceland              10.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1997                       Asian Electronic              16.67      5.50      0.00      0.00      0.00      5.50      0.00      0.00
1997                        CEAT                         20.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      3.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1997                        Duncan Hospital               7.00       .93      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1997                       EEPL                           0.00       .03      0.00      0.00      0.00       .03      0.00      0.00
1997                        Owens Coming                 25.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     25.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1997                        SAPL                          0.00       .07      0.00      0.00      0.00       .07      0.00      0.00
1997                        SREI                         15.00      3.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      3.00      0.00      0.00
1997                        WIPRO                        10.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1998                       TCWJICICI                      0.00     10.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      1.50      0.00      0.00
TotalPortfolio:                            659.11    208.45      1.81    264.80    518.33    176.37      1.81    179.80
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan     Equity    Ouasi    Partic
1996                       CESC II -BLINC                 0.00      0.00      0.00     37.00
1996                       DEV CREDIT BANK                0.00      1.89      0.00      0.00
1995                       IB VALLEY POWER               50.00     20.00      0.00      0.00
1998                       IDFC                           0.00     20.00      0.00      0.00
1998                       IL&FS (III)-RI                 0.00      3.38      0.00      0.00
1997                       ITC CLASSIC                   20.00      0.00     10.00      0.00
1998                       IVCAAF                         0.00      5.74      0.00      0.00
1994                       NEYVELI POWER                 30.00     18.00      0.00    150.00
1997                       NUFSL                          5.00      0.00      0.00      5.00
1998                       RAIN CALCININ RI               0.00       .84      0.00      0.00
1995                        SPIC-RGHTS ISSUE              0.00       .86      0.00      0.00
1997                        WALDEN - MGMT                 0.00       .08      0.00      0.00
1997                        WIV                           0.00      6.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:                  105.00     76.79     10.00    192.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                 Page 115
India - U.P. Diverssified Agricultural Support Project                                                                     Annex 10
Annex 10
India at a glance
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          South    Low-
India     Asia  income      Development dlamond,
Populabon mid-1996t(millions)                      943.2     1,264    3.229
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                           380       380      500                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                            358.4      481    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96                                                                  T
Population (%)                                       1.7       1.9      1.7     GNP             A             Gross
Labor force (%)                                      2.0       2.1      1.7     per    F   <<      >      I  prmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                         capita          j          enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)           35
Urban population (36 of total population)            27        26       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     62        61       63
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live births)            68        75       69               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)           63
Access to safe water (% of population)               63        63       53
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                 48        50       34            -    dh
Gross primary enrollment (3l ofschool-age population)  102 .   98      105                n
Male                                              113       110      112                Low-income group
Female                                             91        87       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1996    1996
Economic ratlos
GDP (billions US$)                         91.0   214.3      328.3   355.8
Gross domestic investmenVGDP               20.8    24.2       26.2    26.5
Exports of goods and services/GDP           6.2      6.0      12.1     12.0             Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                 20.4    21.1       22.7    23.1
Gross national savings/GDP                 20.6    21.6       24.2    25.3
Current account balance/GDP                 0.0    -2.8       -2.1     -1.2
Interest payments/GDP                       0.3      0.8       1.4      1.3     Savings                    Investment
Total debt/GDP                             15.1    19.1       28.9    25.2
Total debt service/exports                 13.1    22.7       26.9    22.6 8
Present value of debtGDP                      ..      ..      22.8
Present value of debVexports                 ..       ..    161.4                          Indebtedness
197546  1986-96    1995      1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                  India
GDP                                 4.2     56.8     7.3       7.5      6.5               Low-income grup
GNP per capita                      1.9     3.5      5.4       5.2                        Lwicm  ru
Exports of goods and services       3.9    11.5    31.6        7.5    10.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONIOMY
(%6 of GOP)                                1975    1985      1995    1996       Growth rates of output atd invtment%)
Agriculture                                40.5    33.0       27.9    27.8      30
Industry                                   23.7    28.1       30.1     29.2
Manufacturing                             18.7    17.9      19.7    20.1 I
Services                                   35.8    38.8       42.1     43.0                   24
Private consumption                        70.2    B7.8       66.8    66.4   .-s
General govemment consumption               9.4    11.1       10.5    10.5
Imports of goods and services               6.6      9.1      15.6    15.3                    GDI    GDP
197545  1986-96      1995    1996
(average annual growth)                                                         Growth mtaes of exports and Imports (X)
Agriculture                                 2.5      3.6      -0.1      5.7     40
Industry                                    5.3      6.6      11.6      7.0
Manufacturing                              5.5     6.7      13.6      8.1     205A
Services                                    5.1      6.7       8.8      7.4
Prvate consumption                          4.5      4.8       2.6      6.8      o        /5
General govemment consumpton                6.5      3.9       5.1      7.2            r      2         5 94 95 9l
Gross domestic investment                   4.1      7.1      17.9      8.5    .2
Imports of goods and services               9.1      6.0      17.3      5.7
Gross natonal product                       4.1      5.4       7.2      6.7                   Exports  -'imports
Note: 1 996 data are preliminary estimates. All GDP data other than sectoral value-added are in market prices.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                      Page 116
India - UP. Diversified Agricultural Support Project                                                                           Annex 10
India
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975    1985       1995     1996
Domesfc prices                                                                    Inflatfon (%)
(% change)
Consumer prices   /                            ..      5.6      10.2      7.0
implicit GOP deflator                        -1.5      7.5       7.3      7.0
Govemment finance
(% of GDP)                                                                         o
Current revenue                                ..    23.8       24.7     25.2             91   92   93   94   9s   93
Current budget balance                         ..      2.2       1.0      1.3              -     GOPdef. -C--CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..   -11.0      -10.1    -10.4
TRADE
1975    1985       1995     1996
(millions USS)                                                                     Export and Import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                             .    8,793    32,311   33,638      so,ooo
Tea               -                                  512       352      290           T
Iron                                         ..      473       515      484      4.0
Manufactures                                 ..   5,640    24,540   24,749       30.000
Total imports (cip                                  15,957    43,670   46,121     2000
Food                                         .. 1,321 . 1.293    1,359
Fuel and energy                              .. 4,054        7,526    9,679      10.00
Capital goods                                .. 3,502        4,560    4,513
Export price index (1980=100)                  ..      98       104       103            so  91  92  93  94  95  90
Import price index (1980=100)                   .      84       115       116                  c Exports   e Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                      ..    118          90       89
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1985       1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Current account balance to GOP rafto (%)
Exports of goods and services               5,650   12,773    39,668   42.556
Imports of goods and services               5,990   19,422    51,213   54,431         90  91  92  93  94
Resource balance                             -340   -6,649   -11,545  -11,875       -|
Net income                                   -150   -1,552    -3,735    4,118
Net current transfers                        470    2,207      8,506   11,888    -2..
Current account balance,
before offidal capital transfers            -20   -5,994    -6,774    4,105      -3
Financing items (net)                         20    6,542      3,050   10,095
Changes in net reserves                        0     -548      3,724   -5,990     4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)         2,065    9,493    21,246   26,160
Conversion rate (locallUS$)                   8.7    12.2       33.5     35.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    1985       1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                    Compositlon of total debt 1996 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       13,708   40,960    94,858   89,827
IBRD                                       436    2,396      9,849    8,768                  G        A
IDA                                       2,809    9,750    17,499   17,616                6726      8768
Total debt service                           822    3,532    13,346   12,667
IBRD                                        89      313      1,713    1,514               /
IDA                                         24      124       357       364                                  17616
F
Compositfon of net resource flows                                                    2856s
Official grants                            511      450       345       408                                   C
Official creditors                        1,260    1,424    -1,048     -163                                  1313
Private creditors                           83    2,277       589   -1,102                                 2948
Foreign direct investment                   85      106      2,133    2,359                           E
Portfolio equity                             0        0      2,471    2,775                         23891
World Bank program
Commitments                                917    2,882      1,697    1,725      A-IBRD                     E-Bilateral
Disbursements                              531    1,375      1,318    1,628      B - IDA    D - Other mufilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        63      157      1,169    1,074      C-IMF                      G-Short-term
Net flows                                  467    1,218       149       554     _
Interest payments                           50      280       901       804
Net transfers                              417      938       -752     -250
Development Economics                                                                                              1171797



MAP SECTION



-25'                 TB'                                     3D a                                     820                                     B)'      
32-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
INDIA
S.                                                                        UTTAR PRADESH DIVERSIFIED
' . '.                                                               AGRICULTURE SUPPORT PROJECT
/                                                                       PFUUE,II HOS~~~~~~~~~~~E I-E4S I
-MW' s    UTTARKASHI                                                                                A     A     A   HORTCULTURE
-   ,          dT '."                                                                                            U a   ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
N                   F f-'"/4 ,              ( ,                                                                          *     0 \  *    *  SERICULTURE
<   t    ,    >  >,    ,   ,  t                                                  @     S      S  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGRICULTURE
DEHRRA DUN-, $g\2F, PRRUADYAAGi'  CHAs       \  'i    %.'s                                                 C     *C  RURALRDS
-             o' -, ,-          "'  (D         ,r        vPITHORAGARH   .       j                                   - - - - DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
A30U M G , t '-                                         - t?--A    '                                                   - STATE BOUNDARIES
*E- SAHAr+X>R                                                             ' HARIDWA4 GARHWAL  \   , _ rX           -.-  IN ERNATONAL BOUNDARIES
SARA    UR'       ~~~~GARHWAL        - 8BHAGAE-SUR
*  HARIDWAR                    ~~~ALMOR     .-         r
i     MUZA 'A                          -   A                                                                       AGRO-CUMATIC REGIONS:
*  SA          BIJNORE      8       AmO                   C                                               (3 HILLS
|   *L G        F~F <    tS         $ 0NAINITA      H 'QIAMPARATl                                           0  TARAI
,BAGPAT    ERRUT  f                  r 8       '                                                                C  WESTERN PLAINS
I BAGPAT- RUTI                            -                                                                  T
-AUE'         0                                                                                                04 MID-WESTERN PLAINS
'"& GHAZIABADAI~ *8           'YTAR    0F st"MPURr ^'r                                                            C5I  SOUTH-WESTERN SEMI-DRY PtAINS
.* AGAR,   J6O MID PLAINS
-  A(AG4R-      t    1 46           /               PIUBHI  -                                               ( AEUNORTH-EASTERN PLAINS
'7- BULANeSHAHRDSHAHRkG   t                              m-FS O1 EASTERN PLAINS
0 ')VINDHYA
BADAUN---              I    F                            -%
20~~~~~~~~~~~~ 8                                             LAKIMPUR ' .                                                                          20- 
28      AUR   A U, *E                                              KERI        M
i MATHURA',  NAGAR    IH B    F                        _ ,     - -                                    BALEAMPUR
AN *                          A* '                         SITAPUR       A HAI            BACMPUR  
R ARUKHARFAD  HARDOI F, -p9
,J ,,     _ FIROZABAD' MAINPURI   - '
..NNOUJ '--' AGRA                                   (S-,   '  +  XKANNOONDA  IDDARTHNAGAR'    *  04F
ETAWAPfl ---*El   A'  '6oAU              AU .                            AE&        --,-  KUSHI~
ETAWAH                                          rARA BAN              F    EAST  NFGAER -  *
'AJ*-SO,      *- zLUCKNO                           *LI                           /SANT 'GORAKHPURr- -
*E 'AURIAYA                      FLUCKNZW*BA F                           E
- -ANO                /  UNNAOS F        -         F;      FIAA                AI'    M  
.. .<' (RURAL)                              ,                                       " * \ 8 ' -'-_ _'AFRESKER  "  - DEORIA- -
jr           _         K,'NPURBAN  o.   -'  RAEBARELI    SULTANPUR
)                 ~~~~~~~~URBAN]       E  BAREL
JALAUN        w                  -          *      c                        
26                                           *o     AZAMGARH                                                                            m IAU-               26"
PATEIHPUR    I       PRATAPGARH      F       F                         F BALLIA  -
A *l   JAUNPUR', F            ~U 
'     HAMIRPUR                        F                                    ' (-     (SHAZIPURNO
JHANS(  F5~  O                                                                            GHAZIPU
')                * .bs *lS   '     _-' , N /l BAN     HUDA  ,-                 -t                 '  VARANASI '
.-      \     "r.~-.                    \PA                            , MAHARAJ  '                     Sr
j )  '; !'.5-&-~                                ->&t" *    *E.                             MIRTAPUR  
AUO
LALITPUR    B                                                                                    *
s   t                                                                 L ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SONBHADRA 
24'                                                                                                                                2 .                       24 -
0    25   50    75  10l  - KiloFFFF,F
0       25      5o       75       F0Mil/M
'F)"FFFF'-'-'pd' ""7B' n d p I    8W2FA                                                                                                             I            W
dd           ~~~~7 8'                                     US                                          US 82'                                    BT4       



