Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3106 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh Diversified Agricultural Support Project)
between
INDIA
and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 30, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3106 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 30, 1998, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association);
WHEREAS (A) The Association has received a letter dated February 17, 1998 from 
the State of Uttar Pradesh describing sector reforms that constitute the framework for 
improving the agricultural sector in Uttar Pradesh, including policy, institutional 
and administrative reforms (hereinafter called the Policy Reform Program), and 
declaring Uttar Pradesh’s commitment to carry out such Policy Reform Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(C)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
amount equal to seventy-nine million nine hundred thousand dollars ($79,900,000) (the 
Loan);
(D)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan are made;
(E)
the Project will be carried out by the State of Uttar Pradesh (Uttar 
Pradesh) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
Page  2
will make available to Uttar Pradesh  the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement; and the proceeds of the Loan as provided in the Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, 
the Bank and Uttar Pradesh;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through December 2, 
1997, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Line departments" means the Departments of Agriculture, Dairy 
Development, Horticulture, Sericulture, Panchayati Raj and Animal Husbandry in Uttar 
Pradesh;
(b)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December 2, 1997, as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement;
(c)
"NGOs" means non-governmental organizations;
(d)
"PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit established within Uttar 
Pradesh for assisting in carrying out  the Project;
(e)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Association, the Bank 
and Uttar Pradesh of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement;
(f)
"Project Implementation Plan" means Uttar Pradesh’s implementation plan 
for the Project dated February 27, 1998, and, including time-bound action plans, 
procedures and criteria agreed with the Association;
(g)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the Project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters between 
the Borrower and the Association dated April 5, 1996 and April 22, 1996;
(h)
"SAUs" means the State Agricultural Universities in Uttar Pradesh of C.S. 
Azad University of Agriculture and Technology, Kanpur; Narendra Deva University of 
Agriculture and Technology, Faizabad; and G.B. Pant University of Agriculture and 
Technology, Pant Nagar;
(i)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(j)
"UPCAR" means Uttar Pradesh Council for Agricultural Research, a society 
established and registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860; and
(k)
"Uttar Pradesh" means the state of Uttar Pradesh of the Borrower, or any 
successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
Page  3
various currencies equivalent to thirty-seven million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 37,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
(c)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in the Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2004 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three\1efourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
May 15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 2008 and ending May 15, 2033. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2018 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
Page  4
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause Uttar Pradesh to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Uttar Pradesh therein set 
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Uttar 
Pradesh to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to Uttar 
Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for developmental 
assistance to the States of India.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Uttar 
Pradesh pursuant to Section 2.03  of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures be 
retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
Page  5
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association  as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved 
in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association  such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof, as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Uttar Pradesh shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Project Agreement.
(b)
Uttar Pradesh shall have failed to carry out the Policy Reform Program 
agreed in relation to the Project, or a significant part thereof.
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Uttar Pradesh will be able to: (i) perform its obligations 
under the Project Agreement; or (ii) carry out the Policy Reform Program or a 
significant part thereof.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
All the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement 
have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement. 
(b)
The policy for maintenance of rural roads referred to in paragraph 18 of 
the Project Agreement has been furnished to the Association.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by Uttar Pradesh and is legally binding upon Uttar 
Pradesh in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary, and Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Page  6
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower are each designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, PIN 110001
India
Cable address: 
Telex:
ECOFAIRS
953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
        64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ V. Govindarajan 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim 
Country Director, 
India
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and 
the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the       Amount of the
Credit Allocated
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in (Expressed in   Expenditures
Category          SDR Equivalent) 
  Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works         14,400,000
 32,300,000
80%
Page  7
(2)
Equipment, materials 4,600,000       10,500,000
100% of foreign 
and vehicles 
expenditures, 
100% of local 
expenditures 
(ex-factory 
cost) and 80% 
of local expen-
ditures for other
items procured
locally
(3)
Consultants’         7,600,000      16,900,000
100%
services (including
NGOs’ services) and 
training
(4)
Research services    1,000,000       2,600,000 
100%
(5)
Incremental          5,100,000      11,500,000
80% through 
operating costs
March 31, 2000,
60% through
March 31, 2002,
and 40%
thereafter
(6)
Refunding of           800,000       _________
Amounts due 
Project Preparation
pursuant to 
Advance
Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated          3,700,000       6,100,000
TOTAL         37,200,000      79,900,000 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental costs of 
operation and maintenance of additional buildings, equipment and vehicles, and 
salaries of additional staff, incurred for the purposes of carrying out the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 4,500,000 may be 
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
August 31, 1997.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods or works under 
contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent; (b) services under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent for employment of consulting firms and $50,000 
equivalent for employment of individual consultants, respectively; (c) training and 
fellowships; (d) works procured under force account; and (e) incremental operating 
costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist Uttar Pradesh in increasing 
agricultural productivity through support for diversified agricultural production 
systems, promoting private sector development and improving rural infrastructure.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
Page  8
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Technology Development  
1.
Enhancing Research Coordination
(a)
Restructuring UPCAR through revision of its mandate, as necessary, 
staffing and operational procedures, to provide policy guidance and to promote and 
facilitate inter-institutional cooperation in agricultural research through provision 
of consultants’ services, training, vehicles, office equipment, and incremental 
operating costs. 
(b)
Strengthening the offices of the Research Directors within the SAUs 
through provision of consultants’ services, training, incremental operating costs and 
equipment.
2.
Competitive Agricultural Research Program
Establishment of a competitive agricultural research program for enhancing the 
quality, relevance and accountability of agricultural research through financing of a 
demand driven, multi-disciplinary research program aimed at addressing key production 
and processing constraints of the agricultural production system in Uttar Pradesh.
3.
Strengthening of Research  Support for Technology Dissemination Activities 
(a)
Strengthening the capacities of the SAUs, line departments, farmers’ 
organizations and participating NGOs for more effective research-extension-farmer 
linkages, through provision of training, study tours, access to relevant literature, 
equipment for participatory farming system research and on-farm 
experimentation/demonstration.
(b)
Supporting activities undertaken by the SAUs and line departments to 
conserve and increase availability of improved genetic stock of crops/breeds to 
increase productivity through: (a) strengthening the infrastructure for conserving and 
developing biodiversity and improving some of the existing farms of the Department of 
Animal Husbandry to undertake breed improvement through multiplication, demonstration, 
distribution and training of private breeders; (b) establishment of Open Nucleus 
Breeding System for conservation and improvement of local cattle, sheep and goat 
breeds; (c) provision of breeding animals, vehicles, equipment, facilities for 
establishment of a data collection scheme for productivity changes, and rehabilitation 
of breeding farms; (d) improving post-quarantine handling facilities at Pant Nagar SAU 
to facilitate introduction of improved genetic materials of temperate and sub-tropical 
crops through provision of civil works, equipment and material, consultants’ services, 
training and incremental operating costs; (e) carrying out of a study to examine the 
possibility of initiating a voluntary budwood certification scheme for private 
nurseries; and (f) formation of Horticultural Technology Advisory Groups for resolving 
production and marketing constraints.
Part B:
Establishment of a Demand Driven Technology Dissemination System 
Strengthening the participatory approach and linkages between the line 
departments, research organizations, private sector agencies, NGOs and farmers’ 
organizations to assist with intensification and diversification of production 
systems, involving  crops, livestock, horticulture and sericulture, and to make the 
extension services of the line departments more demand driven and accountable to 
farmers, through:
1.
Rationalization and Reorientation of Public Extension Services 
(a)
Support for capacity building of the line departments to initiate farming 
systems approach to technology dissemination through redeployment and training of the 
existing staff within the line departments, provision of civil works, equipment and 
materials, vehicles, consultants’ services and incremental operating costs.
(b)
Decentralization of technical and managerial decision making to the 
technology teams at the district level through redeployment and training of existing 
staff or establishment of Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA) with 
representation from all the key stakeholders.
2.
Increasing the Role of the Private Sector in Input Supply and Support Services
Provision of training and consultants’ services to small and medium sized 
Page  9
agri-businesses, including private veterinarians and para-veterinary (para-vet) 
programs, NGOs and farmers’ organizations to upgrade their technological and 
managerial capacity to ensure that farmers are receiving high quality production 
inputs from the private sector.
3.
Enhancing Participation by the Farming Community
(a)
Establishment with the assistance of NGOs and consultants’ services of: 
(i) the small village based savings and credit Self Help Groups among the farming 
community; and (ii) Commodity Groups/Associations.  
(b)
Provision of materials, equipment and training to member farmers.
4.
Support for Human Resource Development and Enhanced Communications Capacity
(a)
Provision of training through the State Institute for Rural Development 
(SIRD), State Institute of Agricultural Management (SIAM), and the National Institute 
for Agricultural Extension Management (MANAGE) to extension personnel of the line 
departments and other participating institutions.
(b)
Strengthening of the SAUs extension directorates to facilitate 
research-extension linkage between the SAUs, line departments and other participating 
institutions through provision of equipment, training, consultants’ services and 
incremental operating costs.
(c)
Strengthening the training and communication capacity of SIRD, SIAM and 
offices of the line departments within the Project districts through provision of 
equipment, vehicles, training  and incremental operating costs, and enhancing the 
electronic communication capacity to access technical information and backstopping 
from the research system.     
(d)
Carrying out of a study for developing a monitoring program to safeguard 
against child labor becoming a problem in the production and reeling stages in 
sericulture.
Part C:
Support for  Increased Private Sector Involvement and Public Private 
Partnership in Agri-business Development
1.
Credit Mobilization and Facilitation
(a)
Assisting in credit mobilization and facilitation through PCU to 
establish effective linkages between Self Help Groups and formal credit institutions. 
(b)
Provision of training, credit extension workshops, monitoring and 
evaluation studies, consultants’ services and office equipment for the Bankers’ 
Institute for Rural Development (BIRD).
2.
Project Development Facility
Establishment of a Project Development Facility to facilitate private sector 
investors in establishing new ventures or in expanding current operations, for 
agro-business development.
Part D:
Rural Infrastructure Development
1.
Improvement and rehabilitation of about 1,600 km of rural roads, and preparation 
of a strategy for maintenance of such roads, training of the staff of the Public Works 
Department and provision of consultants services for technical examination and quality 
of works.
2.
Improvement and rehabilitation of about 145 existing rural markets, about 13 
cattle markets and two horticultural markets.
3.
Strengthening the Directorate of Agricultural Marketing within the Department of 
Agriculture through provision of consultants’ services, training, equipment and 
incremental operating costs.
Part  E:
Support for Project Management and Economic Analysis Unit 
1.
Strengthening the PCU through provision of staff, office equipment and 
incremental operating costs.
Page  10
2.
Establishment of an Agricultural Management Center at the Indian Institute of 
Management at Lucknow for carrying out monitoring and evaluation of the Project.
3.
Establishment, within PCU, of an Economic Policy Analysis Unit, to analyze the 
impact of agricultural policies on rural development. 
**
*
The Project is expected to be completed by  September 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.  
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories  (1), (2), (3), (4)  and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1  to the Development Credit 
Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in  respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of  Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $6,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit  Account or the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $3,500,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the respective General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 25,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the  provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish  the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposit in 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association  requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall  specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request,  the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association  the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have  been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible  Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall  have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Page  11
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions  of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of  Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement or from the Loan  Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the  Loan Agreement and Article V of 
the General Conditions applicable  thereto;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section, or 
to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement, in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account or the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of 6.02 of the 
respective General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall  specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall  be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in  the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account  (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the  Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such  payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund  to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association or the Bank made pursuant  to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account, as the case may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Development Credit Agreement or the 
Loan Agreement, including the General Conditions applicable thereto.
