Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3106 IN
LOAN NUMBER 4365 IN
Project Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh Diversified Agricultural Support Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
Dated July 30, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3106 IN
LOAN NUMBER 4365 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 30, 1998, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank)  and 
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH (Uttar Pradesh).
WHEREAS (A) The Association and the Bank have received a letter dated February 
17, 1998 from the State of Uttar Pradesh describing sector reforms that constitute the 
framework for improving the agricultural sector in Uttar Pradesh, including policy, 
institutional and administrative reforms (hereinafter called the Policy Reform 
Program), and declaring Uttar Pradesh’s commitment to carry out such Policy Reform 
Program;
(B)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between India 
(the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to 
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-seven million two 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 37,200,000), on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Uttar 
Pradesh agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
the Development Credit Agreement and in this Agreement;
(C)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to seventy-nine million nine hundred thousand dollars 
($79,900,000), on the  terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on  condition that   Uttar Pradesh agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank 
as are set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
(D)
the Project will be carried out by the  State of  Uttar Pradesh with the 
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to  Uttar Pradesh the proceeds of the Credit as provided in the Development 
Credit Agreement, and  the proceeds of the Loan, as provided in the Loan Agreement; 
and
WHEREAS Uttar Pradesh, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and the Bank entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined in the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan  Agreement, 
respectively) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a)  Uttar Pradesh declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out the Project  with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial and agricultural practices,  and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association, the Bank and  Uttar Pradesh shall otherwise agree, 
Uttar Pradesh shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in  Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of   Schedule 1 to this  Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a)   Uttar Pradesh shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions Applicable to 
the Development Credit Agreement, and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 
9.09 of the General Conditions Applicable to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements for 
Single Currency Loans (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in 
respect of the Project Agreement and the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions Applicable to 
the Development Credit Agreement, and Section 9.08 of the General Conditions 
Applicable to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans, and without 
limitations thereto,  Uttar Pradesh shall prepare and furnish to the Association and 
the Bank, not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and the Bank and Uttar Pradesh, 
a plan satisfactory to the Association and the Bank for the future operation of the 
Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall, at the request of the Association and the 
Bank, exchange views with the Association and the Bank with regard to the progress of 
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit and the Loan.
(b)
  Uttar Pradesh shall promptly inform the Association and the Bank of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the Loan, or the performance by 
Uttar Pradesh  of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Page  3
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of Uttar Pradesh 
responsible for carrying out the Project.
(b)
 Uttar Pradesh shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association and the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association and the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and financial statements as well 
as the audit thereof, as the Association and the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Uttar Pradesh shall, with the assistance of financial management 
consultants selected in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, prepare, not later than December 31, 1998, a manual for accounting, 
auditing and internal financial control practices for the Project acceptable to the 
Association and the Bank, and shall thereafter commence a training program on such 
practices for all the institutions participating in the implementation of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and the 
Bank and Uttar Pradesh thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two 
dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with their terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement terminates in 
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this 
Section, the Association and the Bank shall promptly notify  Uttar Pradesh of this 
event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
Page  4
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
            Telex:
INDEVAS
                   248423 (MCI),
Washington, D.C.
                    64145 (MCI) 
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United States of America
Cable Address:                            Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.                     64145 (MCI) 
For Utttar Pradesh:
          Chief Secretary
          Government of  Uttar Pradesh
          Lucknow,  India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of  Uttar Pradesh 
may be taken or executed by its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as 
Uttar Pradesh shall designate in writing, and  Uttar Pradesh shall furnish to the 
Association and the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person. 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Section 5.04. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to Uttar 
Pradesh, and so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not have terminated 
prior to the termination of the Loan Agreement:
(a)
the obligation of Uttar Pradesh to consult with, and furnish information, 
documents, plans, reports, records and statements to the Bank shall be satisfied to 
the extent performance in respect of such obligation is rendered to the Association;
(b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information 
to Uttar Pradesh shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are satisfied by 
the Association; and 
(c)
all actions taken (including giving of approvals or granting of waivers) 
by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be 
taken pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, and in 
the name and on behalf of the Association and the Bank.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
   AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  5
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim 
Country Director, 
India
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 
By /s/ Jacob Thomas 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for the purchase of goods shall be grouped 
in bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Equipment and materials estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,500,000 equivalent may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Works for rural markets under Part D 2 of the Project estimated to cost 
$30,000 equivalent or more per contract, and other works estimated to cost $20,000 
equivalent or more per contract, both costing up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$62,100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
(a)
Equipment and materials estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,500,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of up to $100,000 per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
Page  6
3.
Direct Contracting
(a)
Books, periodicals, extension and publicity materials, software, 
proprietary equipment and spares, livestock, semen, seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, 
and plants, estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000, may, 
with the Association’s and the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Maps, aerial photography, satellite imagery, and data, estimated to cost 
$300,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association’s and the 
Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 
of the Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works for rural markets under Part D 2 of the Project estimated to cost less 
than $30,000 equivalent per contract, and other works estimated to cost less than 
$20,000 equivalent per contract, both costing up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$6,100,000 equivalent, may be procured either (i) under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association and the Bank, 
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully, or (ii) through direct 
contracting with NGOs or community organizations, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, and with the Association’s and the Bank’s prior 
agreement, or (iii) with prior approval of the Association and the Bank, through force 
account in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines and 
procedures satisfactory to the Association and the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association and the Bank for their review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods 
and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to any contract for goods or works, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods and the first two 
contracts for works, estimated to cost less than $200,000, but more than $20,000, 
($30,000 in case of rural markets) the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor, Uttar 
Pradesh shall provide to the Association and the Bank a report on 
the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any such contract, Uttar Pradesh shall 
provide to the Association and the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  7
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 2.13 through 2.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for technical assistance or training under 
the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for technical assistance or training estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
(a)
Services for research under Part A of the Project may, with the 
Association’s and the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to the 
requirement that any contract for goods, forming part of such research contract, and 
estimated to cost more than $20,000 equivalent, shall be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Procurement Guidelines.
(b)
Consultants’ or NGOs’ services for technical assistance or training which 
are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the 
Association’s and the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association and the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association and the Bank for their review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan 
as shall have been approved by the Association and the Bank,  and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance or training estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
Page  8
technical assistance or training estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association and the Bank for their prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
Uttar Pradesh shall: (i) not later than March  31, 2000, engage, in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, consultants to 
develop, in consultation with the Association and the Bank, terms of reference, and 
undertake a study on the reform program of UPCAR under Part A 1 of the Project; and 
(ii) not later than September 30, 2000, complete the study referred to in (i) above 
and agree with the Association and the Bank on an action plan to implement its 
recommendations.
2.
Uttar Pradesh shall: (i) through UPCAR complete approval, not later than 
December 31, 1998, of the first phase of the research proposals under the competitive 
agricultural research program under Part A 2 of the Project,  in accordance with 
criteria agreed with the Association and the Bank; and (ii) take all the necessary 
measures to ensure that continued funding for the program shall be provided, during 
the post Project period, for: (a) completion of the research initiated during the 
Project period, and (b) subject to satisfactory performance of the program, for 
support of competitive research funding mechanism.
3.
Uttar Pradesh shall, not later than March 31, 1999, establish, in accordance 
with terms of reference agreed with the Association and the Bank, Agricultural 
Technology Management Agency (ATMA) to manage technology dissemination activities in 
two Project districts.
4.
Uttar Pradesh shall take all the necessary measures to ensure that, not later 
than December 31, 1999, extension services activities in at least one block of two 
Project districts, are contracted to NGOs or private service providers in association 
with the Commodity Groups/Association and Self Help Groups, under Part B of the 
Project, with technical back-stopping by the district teams and block level staff of 
the line departments, and in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association 
and the Bank.
5.
Uttar Pradesh shall select the NGOs assisting in the implementation of the 
Project in accordance with criteria agreed with the Association and the Bank.
6.
Uttar Pradesh shall engage, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, not later than December 31, 1999, a suitably qualified 
agency to undertake an independent assessment of the participatory management process 
under the Project, and agree, not later than June 30, 2000, with the Association and 
the Bank on an action plan to implement the recommendations of such assessment. 7.
Uttar Pradesh shall, not later than December 31, 1998, complete the study on 
developing a monitoring program to safeguard against child labor under Part B 4 (d) of 
the Project, and shall, not later than March 31, 1999, commence implementation of the 
recommendations of the study agreed with the Association and the Bank.
8.
Uttar Pradesh shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association the carrying out  of the Project and the achievement of the objective 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and the 
Page  9
Bank, and furnish to the Association and the Bank, not later than December 31, 1999, 
and September 30, 2001, reports integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in carrying out  of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out  of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof during the 
period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30, 2000 and March 31, 2001, or such 
later dates as the Association and the Bank shall request, the reports referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the Association 
and the Bank’s views on the matter.
9.
Uttar Pradesh shall by December 31 of each year, starting 1998, furnish to the 
Association and the Bank an annual training plan under the Project, satisfactory to 
the Association and the Bank, and shall thereafter commence implementation of such a 
plan.
10.
Uttar Pradesh shall, not later than June 30, 2000, through its Animal Husbandry 
Department, commission an independent review to assess implementation progress of the 
para-vet program under Part B 2 of the Project, and based on the recommendations of 
the review, take all the necessary action to promote the success of the para-vet 
program, including termination of similar services provided by the Animal Husbandry 
Department from areas with effective coverage by the para-vet program.
11.
Uttar Pradesh shall not later than December 31, 1998, engage, in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, an autonomous agency to 
establish the project development facility under Part C 2 of the Project, for 
mobilizing increased private investments in production and post harvest value addition 
activities including agro-processing.
12.
Uttar Pradesh shall: (i) select and improve the roads under Part D 1 of the 
Project in accordance with criteria and technical standards agreed with the 
Association and the Bank; (ii) maintain such roads in accordance with an action plan, 
consistent with the road maintenance policy, to be completed by December 31, 1998, 
agreed with the Association and the Bank; (iii) employ, not later than December 31, 
1998, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, 
and with terms of reference agreed with the Association and the Bank, consultants to 
inspect and verify the technical quality of the roads improved under the Project; (iv) 
ensure that any land needed for road improvement shall be provided by the owner of 
such land in a voluntary manner, and in accordance with a memorandum of understanding, 
acceptable to the Association and the Bank, between Uttar Pradesh and the owner of 
such land; and (v) shall not commence improvement of roads in locations where private 
land is needed un
til such memorandum of understanding has been concluded.
13.
Uttar Pradesh shall ensure that the Project Coordinator shall, during the 
Project implementation period, also be the Secretary Coordination, Agriculture 
Production Commissioner Branch in Uttar Pradesh.
14.
Without limitations to the provisions of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions, 
Uttar Pradesh shall, starting December 31, 1998, through PCU, prepare and furnish to 
the Association and the Bank, for their review and comments, bi-annual and annual 
progress reports, within 30 days of the reporting period, setting out the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Project during the previous six months or year, as the 
case may be.
15.
Uttar Pradesh shall, by January 31 of each year, starting 1999, through PCU, 
prepare and furnish to the Association and the Bank, for their review and comments, an 
annual work program for the Project for the following year.
16.
Uttar Pradesh shall establish, not later than March 31, 1999, a task force to 
assess the present situation, and prepare a program on gender issues in technology 
dissemination under Part B of the Project, and shall thereafter implement the agreed 
program in consultation with the Association and the Bank.
17.
Uttar Pradesh shall: (i) not later than December 31, 1998, establish the 
Economic Policy Analysis Unit with key staff whose qualifications and experience are 
acceptable to the Association and the Bank; and (ii) furnish to the Association and 
the Bank for their approval by March 31 of each year, commencing 1999, the annual work 
Page  10
program for the Economic Policy Unit.
18.
Uttar Pradesh shall prepare in agreement with the Association and the Bank a 
policy for maintenance of rural roads in Uttar Pradesh.
19.
Uttar Pradesh shall engage, in consultation with the Association and the Bank, 
and in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, 
not later than December 31, 1998, an experienced procurement officer.
