Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3106 IN
LOAN NUMBER 4365 IN
Uttaranchal Project Agreement
(Diversified Agricultural Support Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF UTTARANCHAL
Dated December 11, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3106 IN
LOAN NUMBER 4365 IN
 UTTARANCHAL PROJECT AGREEMENT
Page  2
AGREEMENT, dated December 11, 2001, among INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF UTTARANCHAL 
(Uttaranchal).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement dated July 30, 1998, as amended 
to date, between India (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-seven million two 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 37,200,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Uttaranchal and the State 
of Uttar Pradesh (Uttar Pradesh) agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as 
are set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, the Project Agreement and in this 
Agreement;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement dated July 30, 1998, as amended to date, between the 
Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventy-nine million nine hundred thousand dollars 
($79,900,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on 
condition that Uttaranchal and Uttar Pradesh agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Bank as are set forth in the Loan Agreement, the Project Agreement and this Agreement;
(C)
the Project will be carried out by Uttaranchal and Uttar Pradesh with the 
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to 
Uttaranchal a part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in the Development Credit 
Agreement, as amended, and part of the proceeds of the Loan, as provided in the Loan 
Agreement, as amended; and
WHEREAS Uttaranchal, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and the Bank entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so 
defined in the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, respectively) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Uttaranchal declares its commitment to the objective of the Project as 
Page  3
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial and agricultural practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and except 
as the Association, the Bank and Uttaranchal shall otherwise agree, Uttaranchal shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Uttaranchal shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions Applicable to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
Applicable to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and 
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Uttaranchal Project Agreement and the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions Applicable to the 
Development Credit Agreement, and Section 9.08 of the General Conditions Applicable to the 
Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans, and without limitations thereto, 
Uttaranchal shall prepare and furnish to the Association and the Bank, not later than six (6) 
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Association and the Bank and Uttaranchal, a plan satisfactory to the Association and the Bank 
for the future operation of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Uttaranchal shall, at the request of the Association and the Bank, 
exchange views with the Association and the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of 
the Credit and the Loan.
(b)
Uttaranchal shall promptly inform the Association and the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Credit and the Loan, or the performance by Uttaranchal of its obligations 
under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Uttaranchal shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect 
of the Project of the departments or agencies of Uttaranchal responsible for carrying out the 
Project.
Page  4
(b)
Uttaranchal
 shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association 
and the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association and 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank such other information concerning 
said records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit thereof, as 
the Association and the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Uttaranchal shall, not later than September 30, 2001, appoint a firm of 
chartered accountants with terms of reference and qualifications acceptable to the Association 
and the Bank, to review the overall operation of the financial management system of the Project, 
and maintain such firm through out the implementation of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement and Agreement Amending the 
Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and the Bank, 
and 
Uttaranchal
 thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with their terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement terminates in 
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the 
Association and the Bank shall promptly notify 
Uttaranchal
 of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Page  5
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United States of America
Cable Address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
For Uttaranchal:
Chief Secretary
Government of Uttaranchal
Dehradun
Uttaranchal, India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Uttaranchal may be taken or 
executed by its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as Uttaranchal shall designate in 
writing, and Uttaranchal shall furnish to the Association and the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Page  6
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Section 5.04. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to Uttaranchal, and 
so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not have terminated prior to the termination 
of the Loan Agreement:
(a)
the obligation of 
Uttaranchal
 to consult with, and furnish information, 
documents, plans, reports, records and statements to the Bank shall be satisfied to the extent 
performance in respect of such obligation is rendered to the Association;
(b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information to 
Uttaranchal
 shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are satisfied by the Association; and 
(c)
all actions taken (including giving of approvals or granting of waivers) by the 
Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement, shall be deemed to be taken 
pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, and in the name 
and on behalf of the Association and the Bank.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in New Delhi, 
India, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim 
Country Director, India
STATE OF UTTARANCHAL
By /s/ C. Bhaskar
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I:
Procurement of Good and Works
Page  7
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the Guidelines) and 
the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for the purchase of goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Equipment and materials estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Works for rural markets under Part D.2 of the Project estimated to cost $30,000 
equivalent or more per contract, and other works estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or more 
per contract, both costing up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
(a)
Equipment and materials estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of up to $100,000 per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the 
Page  8
Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
(a)
Books, periodicals, extension and publicity materials, software, proprietary 
equipment and spares, livestock, semen, seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, and plants, estimated to 
cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 may, with the Association’s and the 
Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Maps, aerial photography, satellite imagery, and data, estimated to cost $30,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association’s and the Bank’s prior agreement, 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works for rural markets under Part D.2 of the Project estimated to cost less than $30,000 
equivalent per contract, and other works estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per 
contract, both costing up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be 
procured either (i) under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association and the Bank, 
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers 
the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully, or (ii) through direct contracting with NGOs or community 
organizations, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, and with the 
Association’s and the Bank’s prior agreement, or (iii) with prior approval of the Association and 
the Bank, through force account in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.8 of the 
Guidelines and procedures satisfactory to the Association and the Bank.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association and the Bank 
for their review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to any contract for goods or works, estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods and the first two contracts for 
works, estimated to cost less than $200,000, but more than $20,000, ($30,000 in case of rural 
Page  9
markets) the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor, Uttaranchal shall provide 
to the Association and the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any such contract, Uttaranchal shall provide to the Association 
and the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
(the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.13 through 2.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. The short list of 
consultants for services for technical assistance or training under the Project estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for technical assistance or training estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Page  10
(a)
Services for research under Part A of the Project may, with the Association’s and 
the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to the requirement that any contract for goods, 
forming part of such research contract, and estimated to cost more than $20,000 equivalent, shall 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Procurement 
Guidelines.
(b)
Consultants’ or NGOs’ services for technical assistance or training which are 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Association’s and the 
Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Association and the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association and the Bank 
for their review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association and the 
Bank,  and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance or training estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 
5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance or training estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than 
the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association and 
the Bank for their prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said 
approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
Page  11
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
Uttaranchal shall: (i) ensure that the research proposals approved under the  competitive 
agricultural research program in Part A.2 of the Project are carried out in a manner satisfactory to 
the Association and the Bank; and (ii) take all the necessary measures to ensure that continued 
funding for the program shall be provided, during the post Project period, for: (a) completion of 
the research initiated during the Project period, and (b) subject to satisfactory performance of the 
program, for support of competitive research funding mechanism.
2.
Uttaranchal shall establish, in accordance with terms of reference agreed with the 
Association and the Bank, an Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA) to manage 
technology dissemination activities in at least two Project districts.
3.
Uttaranchal shall take all the necessary measures to ensure that extension service 
activities contracted to NGOs or private service providers in association with the Commodity 
Groups/Association and Self Help Groups under Part B of the Project are maintained throughout 
the Project implementation period in a manner that is satisfactory to the Association and the 
Bank in at least one block in one Project district, with technical back-stopping by the district 
teams and block level staff in the line departments.
4.
Uttaranchal
 shall select the NGOs assisting in the implementation of the Project in 
accordance with criteria agreed with the Association and the Bank.
5.
Uttaranchal
 shall implement the recommendations of the independent assessment of its 
participatory management processes carried out under the Project in accordance with an action 
plan agreed with the Association and the Bank.
6.
Uttaranchal
 shall implement the recommendations of the study carried out under Part 
B.4 (d) of the Project on the development of a monitoring program to safeguard against child 
labor in a manner that is satisfactory to the Association and the Bank.
7.
Uttaranchal shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association the carrying 
out  of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, 
and furnish to the Association and the Bank, not later than December 31, 2001, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in carrying out  of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof during the 
period following such date; and
Page  12
(c)
review with the Association by March 31, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association and the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Association and the Bank’s views on the matter.
8.
Uttaranchal shall by December 31 of each year, starting 2001, furnish to the Association 
and the Bank an annual training plan under the Project, satisfactory to the Association and the 
Bank, and shall thereafter commence implementation of such a plan.
9.
Uttaranchal shall carry out the para-vet program under Part B.2 of the Project in 
accordance with the recommendations of the independent review commissioned under the 
Project, and undertake all necessary actions to promote the success of the para-vet program, 
including termination of similar services provided by the Animal Husbandry Department from 
areas with effective coverage by the para-vet program.
10.
Uttaranchal shall: (i) select and improve the roads under Part D.1 of the Project in 
accordance with criteria and technical standards agreed with the Association and the Bank; (ii) 
carry out an independent environmental assessment, acceptable to the Association, prior to the 
construction of any roads; (iii) maintain such roads in accordance with an action plan, consistent 
with the road maintenance policy agreed with the Association and the Bank; (iv) employ, not 
later than December 31, 2001, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, and with terms of reference agreed with the Association and the Bank, 
consultants to inspect and verify the technical quality of the roads improved under the Project; 
(v) ensure that any land needed for road improvement shall be provided by the owner of such 
land in a voluntary manner, and in accordance with a memorandum of understanding, acceptable 
to the Association and the Bank, between 
Uttaranchal
 and the owner of such land; and (vi) shall 
not commence improvement of roads in locations where private land is needed until such 
memorandum of understanding has been concluded.
11.
Without limitations to the provisions of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions, 
Uttaranchal shall, starting December 31, 2001, through PCU, prepare and furnish to the 
Association and the Bank, for their review and comments, semi-annual and annual progress 
reports, within 30 days of the reporting period, setting out the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Project during the previous six months or year, as the case may be.
12.
Uttaranchal
 shall, by January 31 of each year, starting 2002, through PCU, prepare and 
furnish to the Association and the Bank, for their review and comments, an annual work program 
for the Project for the following year.
13.
Uttaranchal
 shall establish, not later than December 31, 2001, a task force to assess the 
present situation, and prepare a program on gender issues in technology dissemination under Part 
B
of the Project, and shall thereafter implement the agreed program in consultation with the 
Association and the Bank.
14.
Uttaranchal shall: (i) establish an Economic Policy Analysis Unit with key staff whose 
qualifications and experience are acceptable to the Association and the Bank; and (ii) furnish to 
the Association and the Bank for their approval by March 31 of each year, commencing 2002, the 
annual work program for the Economic Policy Unit.
Page  13
15.
Uttaranchal shall engage, in consultation with the Association and the Bank, and in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, an experienced 
procurement officer throughout the Project implementation period.
16.
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, Uttaranchal shall 
take all actions as may be necessary to provide in a timely manner all funds needed for the 
effective implementation of the Project.
