Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4194-BUR 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Sixth Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
BURKINA FASO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 22, 2006  
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4194-BUR 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated June 22, 2006, entered into between BURKINA FASO (
“Recipient”) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of 
providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are 
described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore 
hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the 
Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to forty one million 
eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 41,800,000) (the 
“Credit”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be 
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 1
st
 and September 1
st
 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the Euro.
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III
—PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect 
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under 
the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV
—REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
The event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing 
for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Association 
to the Recipient. 
ARTICLE V
—EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of the Recipient at the time responsible for 
finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Minister of Finance and Budget 
Ministry of Finance and Budget 
03 BP 7050 
Ouagadougou 03 
Burkina Faso 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
 Facsimile: 
SEGEGOUV 
 5555 
 (226) 
50-31-27-15 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
   Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
  248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 64145 
(MCI) 
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
BURKINA FASO 
 
By /s/ Jean-
Baptiste Marie Pascal Compaoré 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Ellen Goldstein 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program. 
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following: 
(1) 
To stimulate growth and employment creation in the rural sector, the Recipient has 
prepared standards and norms for oleaginous companies’ products (sesame, cashew nuts, 
shea butter) and niebe. 
(2) 
To further develop human resources:  
(a) 
in the health sector, the Recipient has implemented a system of subsidies for 
obstetrical emergency care and reduced costs of assisted birth; and  
(b) 
in the education sector, the Recipient has finalized the mid-term expenditure 
framework for the sector, including secondary education, considering resources 
needed to attain the Basic Education Sector Development Plan’s objectives and 
the Millennium Development Goals. 
(3) 
To improve good governance, in the areas of: 
(a) 
Budget formulation: the Recipient has adopted the draft budget for 2006 on the 
basis of the ceilings per sector of the 2006-08 mid-term expenditure framework 
and in line with the priorities of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper; and  
(b) 
Budget execution: the Recipient has: 
(i) 
completed the physical verification of government property in 43 of the 
45 provinces and in the commune of Ouagadougou; and recruited a 
private firm to finalize the accounting system for government property; 
and 
(ii) 
improved monitoring of externally financed investment spending, by 
designing an action plan for a complete information system based on the 
software SYGADE; and established a project group in charge of 
customizing SYGADE for the monitoring of external financing and of 
developing the interface between SYGADE, the computerized 
expenditure circuit (CID), and the State integrated accounting system 
(CIE); 
(c) 
Procurement: the Recipient has adopted the action plan based on the 
recommendation of the 2005 Country Procurement Assessment Report; and 
 
Page  7
6
(d) 
Decentralization: the Recipient has adopted a draft law defining the resources 
and expenses for sub-
national governments on the Recipient’s territory, and a 
decree defining the accounting and financial regime for sub-national
 
governments, including budget and accounting classification.  It has prepared a 
draft devolution decree for the effective transfer of functions and assets to urban 
communes and a priority action plan to assist in the establishment of new 
regional councils and municipal councils in rural communes. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. Allocation 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a Single 
 
Tranche.   
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the 
Association; and 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any 
 
time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an 
 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the 
 
Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2007. 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each March 1
st
 and September 1
st
:
commencing September 1
st
,
2016 to and 
including March 1
st
,
2026  
1% 
commencing September 1
st
,
2026 to and 
including March 1
st
,
2046 
2% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, 
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Page  9
8
APPENDIX 
Section I.  Definitions 
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another Financing, credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
 
Group Sub-group 
Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718 718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch cases) and goldsmiths’ 
or silversmiths’ wares (including set gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which
 
the Recipient is a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally 
hazardous by agreement between the Recipient and the Association; 
Page  10
9
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds during the procurement 
or execution of such contract, without the Recipient (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to 
remedy the situation. 
2. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
3. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated April 25, 2006 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the 
Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
4. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(
c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association
’s representatives to examine such records.” 
Page  11
10 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing. 
7.. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”. 
 
