Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2162 
Operation Name 
Poverty Reduction Support Credit (6) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (35%);Health (20%);Other 
industry (15%);General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector 
(15%);Primary education (15%) 
Project ID 
P078996 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF FINANCE AND BUDGET AND OTHER 
MINISTRIES 
Date PID Prepared 
February 9, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 1, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 30, 2006 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The proposed PRSC-6 is the third in a series of three annual operations supporting the implementation 
of Burkina Faso’s second Poverty Reduction Strategy in 2004-2006. PRSP-2 builds on the achievements 
of the first PRSP while innovating on several dimensions: it is grounded on a stronger participatory 
basis, has a more effective M&E system, and benefits from improved donor coordination through the 
adoption of a unified budget support framework. Achievements under the previous PRSCs are generally 
positive as illustrated by an 8 percent reduction of poverty incidence between 1998 and 2003. The 
proposed operation is fully aligned with the Africa Action Plan and the Bank’s FY06-09 CAS. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
PRSC-6 will support PRSP objectives of: (i) raising growth and equity in a stable macroeconomic 
environment, thus ultimately reducing the incidence of poverty; (ii)increasing access to and quality of 
basic social services; (iii) improving employment and income opportunities for the poor; and (iv) 
improving governance with a particular emphasis on public sector management. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
a.  The proposed PRSC-6 has three components consistent with the four PRSP pillars: (i) 
growth and employment creation; (ii) human resource development; and (iii) good 
governance. 
b.  Under the growth and employment creation component, the proposed operation supports 
reforms in the rural, telecommunication, and energy sectors as well as on investment 
climate (labor market, regulatory framework) to lower factor costs, increase productivity 
and favor new investments.  
c.  The second component includes policies in the education, health, social protection and 
water infrastructure, to lower the cost of services, increase access, improve service 
quality, and reinforce monitoring and evaluation.  
Page  2
d.  The third component encompasses policy measures to strengthen budget formulation, 
budget execution, procurement, budget management and ex-post control, public sector 
reform and decentralization, and environmental management.   
 
4. Environment Aspects 
The Bank has determined that the specific actions supported under the proposed PRSC-6 are not 
expected to have a significant effec
t
on
Burkina’s environment and natural resources. The potential 
environmental and social impacts of the series of PRSC 6-9 stem from its sectoral coverage. However, 
these impacts, which are mainly linked to the measures for rural development, divestiture program and 
reform of the energy sector, as well as to investments in education and health, should not be extensive; 
nor will they be irreversible. 
 
Furthermore, there is a close and direct link between PRSC-6 and the sectoral investment projects as 
regards compliance with environmental and social safeguards, and these accompanying sectoral 
investment operations have their own environmental management plans (EMPs) formulated to offset the 
main environmental and social impacts identified during their evaluation. These sectoral EMPs are the 
basis to guarantee compliance with Bank requirements and policies, and can be found in the 
Environmental Assessments (EAs) of the respective projects. These projects are: (i) the Community-
based Rural Development project; (ii) the Basic Education Sector project; (iii) the Response to 
HIV/AIDS project; (iv) the Competitiveness and Enterprise Development project; (v) the Energy 
project; and (vi) the Urban Environment project. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
60 
IDA GRANT FOR DEBT VULNERABLE 
0 
 Total 
60 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Abdoulaye Seck 
Title: Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-4508 
Fax: (202) 614-1655 
Email: Aseck1@worldbank.org
 
