Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4746-GH 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Third Natural Resources and Environmental Governance Development Policy 
Financing) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated September 8, 2010  
 
Page  2
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 4746-GH
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 8, 2010, entered into between the REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
(“Recipient”) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) 
for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to 
this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are 
described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore 
hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement,
 
a
credit in an amount equivalent to six million six 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,600,000) 
(variously, “Credit” and 
“Financing”).
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be 
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
2.06.
 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollar. 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any situation that would 
have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any 
action taken under the Program, including any action specified in Section I of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension shall be that a situation has arisen which shall make 
it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the 
Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying out the 
Program and with the adequacy of the 
Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework. 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister responsible for finance.  
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Minister of Finance and Economic Planning  
 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning  
P.O. Box MB40 
 Accra, 
Ghana 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
ECONOMICON 
2205 MIFAEP GH 
233-21-667069 
Accra 
 
 
 
 
      
233-21-663854 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Accra, Republic of Ghana, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
 
By /S/ Kwabena Duffuor 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Ishac Diwan  
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following: 
The Recipient has: 
1. 
commenced a pilot program of wood tracking systems to verify the origin of timber with 
at least three commercial companies that are involved in the harvesting, processing and 
export of timber, as a means of implementing the Voluntary Partnership Agreement; 
2. 
established procedures to improve transparency of disbursement of forestry revenue; 
3. 
prepared and issued satisfactory guidelines on social responsibility for mining activities; 
4. 
commenced the implementation of the Mining Revenue Task Force action plan  
to improve mining sector revenue collection, management and transparency, 
including: (a) completion of a collaborative pilot audit by the 
 Recipient’s Minerals 
Commission, the Internal Revenue Service and other relevant departments of at least one 
mine; and (b) application of a fiscal model to three mines; and 
5. 
submitted  a draft Strategic Environmental Assessment of the oil sector, satisfactory  
to the Association, and issued guidelines for environmentally responsible management  
of oil sector. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
Allocation 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Tranche 
6,600,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
6,600,000 
Page  7
6
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
 
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the 
Association is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient; 
and (b) with the appropriateness of the
 Recipient’s macroeconomic policy 
framework. 
D. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
1. 
the withdrawal of the Single Tranche from the Financing Account shall be 
deposited by the Association into an account designated by the Recipient and 
acceptable to the Association; and 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon the deposit of the Single Tranche  
of the Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for  
in the Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable 
 
to the Association. 
E. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
1. 
have the account referred to in Part D.1 of this Section II audited by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, such audit to cover the 
accounting of the amount referred to in Part D.2 of this Section II.; 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and  
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the said account, 
and audit, as the Association shall reasonably request. 
F. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any 
time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund  
an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded  
to the Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
G. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2011. 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the 
Credit repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each February 15 and August 15: 
 
Commencing August 15, 2020 to and  
 
including February 15, 2030 
1.25% 
Commencing August 15, 2030 to and 
 
including February 15, 2045 
2.5% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, 
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  9
8
APPENDIX 
Section I. Definitions 
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
 
Group Sub-group 
Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group 
metals (except watches and watch cases) 
and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores 
and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
Page  10
9
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient  
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to address such practices when they occur. 
2. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through  
October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
3. 
“Mining Revenue Task Force” means the Recipient’s multi-agency task force to 
coordinate the Recipient’s departments and agencies responsible for the revenue 
collection and administration.  
4. 
“Program” means the Recipient’s program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote sustainable growth and poverty reduction through improved natural resource 
management and environmental governance, and set forth or referred to in the letter dated 
May 27, 2009 as updated  through the letter dated April 20, 2010, from the Recipient to 
the Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program 
and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
5. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
6. 
“Strategic Environmental Assessment” means the Recipient’s strategic environmental 
assessment for the oil sector dated March 2010, setting forth the social, environmental, 
institutional and economic actions and measures intended to guide the petroleum 
industry, including the required actions for the development of the oil industry.   
7. 
“Voluntary Partnership Agreement” means the agreement dated September 3, 2008, 
between the Recipient and the European Community on Forest Enforcement, Governance 
and Trade.  
 
Page  11
10 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The 
modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Financing Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing. 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
Page  12
11 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”. 
 
