Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5315 
Operation Name 
Ghana Natural Resource and Environmental Governance - DPO 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Mining and other extractive (33%);Forestry (33%);Other industry 
(17%);General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (17%) 
Project ID 
P118188 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF GHANA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC PLANNING 
Date PID Prepared 
December 17, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 12, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 27, 2010 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Ghana’s growth has historically been fuelled by natural resources. However, recent impressive growth 
rates, in the range of 6-7 percent per year, cannot be sustained in the face of alarmingly high rates of 
natural resource and environment (NRE) depletion, which represents a cost to Ghana’s GDP of about 10 
percent per year according to the Country Environmental Analysis (CEA). The forestry, wildlife, and 
mining sectors account for 15 percent of Ghana’s GDP, 25 percent of government revenues, and 60 
percent of foreign exchange. The CEA stressed that the resource base is at an important transition point, 
with forests and non-timber forest product stocks rapidly decreasing and wildlife populations as well as 
biodiversity declining at an alarming rate. This calls into question the sustained utilization of these 
resources. Over 70 percent of the population is dependent on natural resources for their basic food, 
water, and energy requirements. Decreasing environmental quality, notably through air pollution and 
inadequate water supply and sanitation, drastically constrains the quality of life and productivity of 
Ghana’s population. 
 
Ghana’s second Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS II) has the ambitious overarching goals 
of sustaining economic growth and drastically reducing poverty and inequalities. GPRS II has three 
distinct pillars—private sector competitiveness, human resource development, and good governance and 
civic responsibility—with priorities identified by the Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) 
included in each. The strategic directions outlined in GPRS II marks the Government of Ghana’s (GoG) 
commitment to reduce NRE degradation, which the NREG Development Policy Operation (DPO) will 
support particularly in regards to environmental and natural resources management. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The objectives of the three operations in this DPO series are to (a) ensure predictable and sustainable 
financing for the forest and wildlife sectors and effective law enforcement; (b) improve mining sector 
revenue collection, management, and transparency; (c) address social issues in forest and mining 
communities; and (d) mainstream environment into economic growth through Strategic Environmental 
Assessment (SEA), Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), and development of a climate change 
strategy.  NREG DPO3 continues to support GoG as it continues to implement reforms in pursuit of 
these objectives. 
Page  2
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The proposed Credit is the third in a planned series of three DPOs over the period 2008-2010 designed 
to provide annual budget support and sustain implementation of a broad program of reforms under GoGs 
planned five year program.  Progress will be reviewed against a three-year rolling Performance 
Assessment Framework that has been developed, and is fully owned, by Ghana’s relevant governmental 
agencies.  The proposed NREG DPO3 in the amount of US$10millon equivalent, is the third and final 
operation in this DPO series, and will continue the focus of DPO1 and DPO2 on the inter-related sectors 
of forestry, mining and environmental protection.  DPO3 will build on the Framework Memorandum of 
Understanding developed at the start of the program, by GoG and participating Development Partners, 
which include: Agence Française de Développement (AFD), the United Kingdom’s Department for 
International Development (DFID), the European Commission (EC), Embassy of the Kingdom of the 
Netherlands in Ghana (EKN), and the World Bank (IDA).    
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
By its very nature, the NREG DPO series supports institutional and regulatory reform aimed at 
promoting a reduction in environmental degradation in Ghana. Therefore, most of the objectives of the 
program are designed to have positive impacts on the environment. However, it is possible that specific 
objectives in the forestry and mining sectors—for instance, in regard to the attraction of investment into 
the forest and wildlife and mining sectors, diversification of the mineral production base, and integration 
of mining into the economy—could have unintended environmental effects, albeit with a heightened 
focus on environmental impacts in light of the NREG program. Likewise, an overly technocratic 
approach to environment may neglect the key social and environmental realities at the local level. The 
NREG program will focus attention on environmental standards in forestry and mining and support the 
strengthening of the Environmental Protection Agency to enforce them. Ghana’s experience of SEA will 
be reviewed to consolidate good practice and inform inter-sectoral planning and implementation. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 2 
International Development Association (IDA) 
10 
EC: European Commission 
3.19 
FRANCE:  Govt. of  [MOFA and AFD (C2D)] 
1.59 
NETHERLANDS: Min. of Foreign Affairs / Min. of Dev. Coop. 
11.16 
 Total 
27.94 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: John W. Fraser Stewart 
Title: Sr Environmental Spec. 
Tel: 5337+4119 / 233-21-214-119 
Email: Jstewart1@worldbank.org 
Location: Accra, Ghana (IBRD)
 
