Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5556 
Operation Name 
Ghana Natural Resource and Environmental Governance - DPO 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Mining and other extractive (33%); Forestry (33%);Other industry 
(17%);General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (17%) 
Project ID 
P118188 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF GHANA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
March 9, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 12, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
May 27, 2010 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
Ghana’s growth has historically been fuelled by natural resources. However, recent impressive 
growth rates, in the range of 6-7 percent per year, cannot be sustained in the face of alarmingly 
high rates of natural resource and environment (NRE) depletion, which represents a cost to 
Ghana’s GDP of about 10 percent per year according to the Country Environmental Analysis 
(CEA). The forestry, wildlife, and mining sectors account for 15 percent of Ghana’s GDP, 25 
percent of government revenues, and 60 percent of foreign exchange. The CEA stressed that the 
resource base is at an important transition point, with forests and non-timber forest product 
stocks rapidly decreasing and wildlife populations as well as biodiversity declining at an 
alarming rate. This calls into question the sustained utilization of these resources. Over 70 
percent of the population is dependent on natural resources for their basic food, water, and 
energy requirements. Decreasing environmental quality, notably through air pollution and 
inadequate water supply and sanitation, drastically constrains the quality of life and productivity 
of Ghana’s population. 
 
Ghana’s second Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS II) has the ambitious 
overarching goals of sustaining economic growth and drastically reducing poverty and 
inequalities. GPRS II has three distinct pillars—private sector competitiveness, human resource 
development, and good governance and civic responsibility—with priorities identified by the 
Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) included in each. The strategic directions outlined in 
GPRS II marks the Government of Ghana’s (GoG) commitment to reduce NRE degradation, 
which the NREG Development Policy Operation (DPO) will support particularly in regards to 
environmental and natural resources management. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
The objectives of the three operations in this DPO series are to (a) ensure predictable and 
sustainable financing for the forest and wildlife sectors and effective law enforcement; (b) 
improve mining sector revenue collection, management, and transparency; (c) address social 
issues in forest and mining communities; and (d) mainstream environment into economic growth 
through Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA), Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), 
Page  2
and development of a climate change strategy.  NREG DPO3 continues to support GoG as it 
continues to implement reforms in pursuit of these objectives. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
This programmatic DPO continues to address governance issues in the forestry and mining 
sectors and improve environmental management.  Currently forestry, wildlife and mining are key 
to Ghana’s economy and share common challenges, including revenues that are not well 
captured and large numbers of people dependent on the sector for their livelihood.  In addition, 
environmental policy (via the Environmental Protection Agency, EPA) needs to be strengthened 
to effectively control pollution and to reduce long-term negative health and economic impacts 
due to environmental degradation and climate change.  Ghana has recognized the need to address 
these important issues.  The 2006-2009 Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS II) has 
the overarching goals of sustaining economic growth of at least 6 percent per year to attain 
middle-income country status and surpass the 2015 Millennium Development Goal of halving 
poverty levels to 26 percent of the population and reducing inequalities.   
 
4. Financing 
NREG DPO-3 is proposed as an IDA Credit in the amount of US$10 million equivalent, to be 
disbursed in a single tranche on effectiveness.  NREG DPO-1 was in the amount of $US20 
million equivalent and NREG DPO-2 was in the amount of US$10 million equivalent, with the 
three operations together totaling US$50 million equivalent.  The following development 
partners are currently providing an additional US$16.6 million to support Ghana’s five year 
NREG program:  Agence Française de Développement (AFD), the United Kingdom’s 
Department for International Development (DFID), the European Commission (EC), and the 
Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in Ghana (EKN). 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
Implementation by the Government of Ghana is through the Forestry Commission, Minerals 
Commission, and Environmental Protection Agency together with their parent Ministries (i.e., 
respectively, the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources and the Ministry of Environment, 
Science and Technology).  The program is coordinated by a high-level, inter-ministerial 
committee and carried out under the supervision of the State Minister for Finance and Economic 
Planning and supported by a Technical Coordination Committee. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
The DPO series is expected to provide three types of benefits.  First, direct benefits expected at 
completion of the series include:  (a) improved management of government revenues and 
finances in the forestry and mining sectors; (b) reduced illegal logging; (c) reduced social 
conflict in forestry and mining communities; and (d) integration of environmental considerations 
into policy formulation and implementation across government, including risks associated with 
climate change.  In addition, there are two intermediate benefits.  The first is providing the 
framework for IDA to deepen and expand its engagement in Ghana’s natural resources 
governance reforms, which previously were supported to a more limited extent under the Poverty 
Reduction Support Credits.  The policy dialogue in this area has now been taken up by the 
NREG program with the aim of achieving greater impact.  The second is that by leveraging 
contributions from multiple DPs and harmonizing contributions at the sector level, the NREG 
Page  3
series lays a strong foundation for GoG to implement natural resources related reforms , increase 
aid effectiveness in line with and improved revenue collection, management and transparency; 
for environmental protection, cross-sectoral environmental management, application of SEA to 
inform decision-making and mainstream environment in sectors, improved EIA processes and 
compliance. 
 
Primary risks to the proposed operation include: (a) political risks,  
(b) macroeconomic risks, (c) financial risks, (d) environmental risks, (e) social risks, and (f) risks 
of misperception. The DPO series has put in place mitigation measures to address these potential 
risks through: (a) promotion of dialogue and positive interaction between relevant stakeholder, 
(b) establishment of mechanisms to adjust expenditure to the level of available financing; (c) 
close monitoring of the release of funds to other government agencies; (d) undertaking an 
environmental evaluation of targets and triggers and the holding of annual progress reviews; (e) 
use of Poverty and Social Impact Analysis, increased social accountability and transparency, and 
payments from carbon storage promoting activities; and (f) keeping up to date of key 
stakeholders regarding objectives and positive outcomes. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
Poverty and Social Impacts:
 
Three sectors are covered by the NREG Program and have a wide 
range of stakeholders. In addition to government (e.g., Forestry Commission, Minerals 
Commission, EPA, etc.), primary stakeholders include communities, Traditional Authorities, 
Stools, large corporate entities, small and micro-enterprises, artisanal miners, and chainsaw 
operators. Many local-level actors, while impacted by policies, are distant from the policy 
process and not sufficiently involved or adequately consulted in decision-making. The result has 
in large part been disinterest or opposition, which in the medium-term could generate conflict. 
Important stakeholders, such as CSOs and the media, have not always been sufficiently 
consulted and engaged in policy decisions in the three sectors. The NREG program has offered a 
significant opportunity for, and has engendered, an elaborate stakeholder engagement process 
between GOG, DPs, CSOs, and primary stakeholders at all levels. 
 
Five principal risks have been identified: (a) institutional risks (caused by weak institutions, 
limited capacity, and lack of resources); (b) increased social conflict; (c) increased poverty and 
vulnerability; (d) reduced investment and growth; and (e) climate change impacts. Social conflict 
is at the heart of the risk scenario. The underpinning causes of social conflict include: (i) 
discretionary power due to weak, confusing, or in some areas non-existent rights, (ii) weak 
policy, legislative, and regulatory frameworks; (iii) inadequate access rights, incentives and 
compensations; (iv) unconventional enforcement practices; and (v) human rights abuses.  
Strategies identified for mitigating risks include: meaningful, timely and effective consultation 
with communities; community based monitoring systems built into the enhanced policy and 
regulatory frameworks for mining and forestry sectors; social protection arrangements to support 
compensation and displacement packages for poor people during transition periods to ensure 
they have adequate livelihoods; a realistic and comprehensive, macro-
level “alternative 
livelihood” strategy, incorporating responsibilities and approaches across several MDAs; a 
systematic review of all current skills development and social protection packages to see how 
these can be broadened and transferred to rural communities that are negatively impacted (in 
terms of livelihoods) by tighter, more rigorously enforced, regulatory environments in forestry 
Page  4
and mining; actively involve forest-dependent communities by clarifying and securing their 
tenure, property, and carbon rights and removing barriers to transparent, inclusive and 
accountable forest governance; increasing the share of benefits accruing to local communities 
from both the mining and forest sectors; and increased transparency and accountability 
concerning the sharing of revenues 
 
Environmental Impacts:  An overarching
 
objective of the NREG program is to achieve positive 
environmental impacts. However, there is a possibility that some outcomes could lead to 
unintended negative effects if insufficient due diligence to environmental impact is pursued 
during implementation. For example: (a) new investment in the forest and wildlife and mining 
sectors; or (b) diversification of the mineral production base leading to increased mineral 
exploitation. However, NREG reduces risks by heightening attention to environmental impacts. 
Also review of environmental implications of targets and triggers that could entail risk of 
environmental damage is undertaken during annual progress reviews and during ongoing sector 
dialog.  Additionally, Ghana’s experience of SEA is also being reviewed to consolidate good 
practice and inform inter-sectoral planning and implementation. 
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: John W. Fraser Stewart 
Title: Sr Environmental Spec. 
Tel: 5337+4119 / 233-21-214-119 
Email: Jstewart1@worldbank.org 
Location: Accra, Ghana (IBRD) 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
