                                                          97303 September 14, 2010
Ghana: Natural Resources and Environmental Governance (NREG) Program




 NATURAL RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENTAL GOVERNANCE

 Policy Reforms in Forestry, Mining and Environment for
 Transparency in Management of Natural Wealth




Overview
Drawing on International Development Association (IDA) resources and technical assistance
since 2008 and support from other development partners, Ghana now has a well-established
environmental policy framework. Preliminary achievements of the five-year program includethe
set up and piloting of a log tracking system to verify the legal source of timber bound for
international export markets through four large commercial timber companies. The program
also implements a mining revenue task force action plan for at three large-scale mines to
understand the potential and options for improving revenue collection. Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) systems were decentralized to all ten regional offices, and IDA support has
assisted the country to prepare to manage the environmental implications of developing its
recently discovered oil and gas reserves, and put in place a process leading toward adoption
of policy options to manage and mitigate the impacts of climate change.


Challenge
As in much of coastal West Africa, Ghana has experienced
                                                                More Results
significant pressure on natural resources over the past 75
years. The 2005 Ghana Natural Resources Management and

                                                                4
Growth Sustainability Economic and Sector Work (ESW)
evaluated the economic costs to totaling US$516 million of
lost productivity due to damage to five types of natural
assets: agricultural land, forest and savanna woodlands,        large timber companies piloting
                                                                a log tracking system to verify
coastal fisheries and wetlands, wildlife, and Lake Volta. In    the legal origin of timber exports
the backdrop of this situation, IDA investment in the natural
resources sector was justified.


The government of Ghana has given high priority to
improved environmental management in its development
                                                                30
programs, including in forest and mining operations. In the     the number of days it now takes
                                                                to disseminate the bi-annual
forestry sector, there is concern about the negative impacts    revenue disbursement reports
that illegal logging is having on government revenue and in     after publication
accelerating the destruction of the country’s forests. In the
mining sector, the challenge is to ensure greater
transparency in issuing mining development agreements;          MORE INFORMATION
improve the government’s capacity to assess revenues it is
due from mining operations; improve relations between            Natural Resources and
                                                                 Environmental Governance
mining companies and the communities in which they
                                                                 Project
operate; and minimize the environmental impacts.
                                                                 Ghana Natural Resource and
                                                                 Environmental Governance -
The challenges of the Ghana Natural Resources and                DPO
Environmental Governance (NREG) Program were to
                                                                 Ghana Natural Resource and
improve transparency in systems and procedures for natural             Environmental Governance -
resource management, which could lead to more effective                DPO (Third Tranche)
forest law enforcement, improved collection of revenues in
                                                                       Netherlands-funded KASA
the mining and forestry sectors, and mainstreaming
                                                                       initiative (civil society support
environment and climate change in economic planning and                mechanism) in support of the
development.                                                           NREG program


Key actions included government passing legislation for
improved surveillance of trade in timber, tracking use of
mining revenues at district and municipal levels, adopting
corporate social responsibility measures, and leading a
process of consultation for a Strategic Environmental Assessment for the new oil and gas
sector in Ghana.

Approach

Government developed a five-year program of policy and institutional reforms and capacity
building to improve natural resource and environmental governance. IDA and other
development partners are supporting government to implement this program through sector
budget support, and technical assistance.
IDA support is provided by a Development Policy Operation, where disbursements are made
annually, following achievement of agreed policy triggers and targets. The operation is being
implemented through country systems and government has put in place mitigation measures to
address potential risks through promotion of dialogue and positive interaction between relevant
stakeholders. Government supervises implementation of the program and controls release of
funds to the sector agencies that are responsible for implementation.
In the context of this program, government has addressed important institutional reforms that
are enhancing its ability to address priority natural resource management and environmental
challenges. The government will provide higher-level oversight of the program through a
recently established Environmental Resources Advisory Council, which will meet bi-annually
under the chairmanship of the Vice President.

Results

After three years of policy reforms and institutional capacity building, important results include:

       In forestry, a log tracking system to verify the legal origin of timber exports is being
       piloted starting in 2010 by four large timber companies.

       In support of improved transparency, bi-annual revenue disbursement reports are
       disseminated to the public within 30 days of publication by Forestry Commission.

       In the mining sector, “Social Responsibility Guidelines for Mining Companies in Mining
       Communities” were prepared in consultation with stakeholders, and the fiscal model has
       now been applied to three mines.

       A draft Strategic Environmental Assessment on oil and gas has been developed for
       consultation. The assessment outlines how environmental and social issues associated
       with developing the offshore oil and gas sector (worth about US$1 billion per year over
       the next 20 years) should be mitigated or managed.



Bank Contribution

IDA support for the first three NREG tranches has been US$40 million equivalent disbursed in
single tranche annually.
Partners

In the interests of donor harmonization and effectiveness, four development partners are
augmenting IDA support under a common Framework Agreement and Policy Assessment
Framework. Development partner contributions include: Royal Netherlands Embassy
approximately €7 million per year over five years (2008-2012); U.K Department for International
Development (DFID): approximately £2.1 million per year for three years (2009-2011); Agence
Française de Développement (AFD): approximately €1 million per year over five years (2008-
2012); and European Commission (EC): approximately €4 million per year over three years
(2010-2012). The total contribution from development partners will be approximately US$77
million.
From the outset, all five development partners have worked closely together and with
government, to ensure a common dialogue and undertake periodic reviews of progress and
achievements against the common Performance Assessment Framework for the three sectors
– forestry, mining and environment.
In addition, with the support from development partners, CARE International has implemented
a parallel project to facilitate and support the role of civil society in the environment and natural

Moving Forward

Achievements demonstrated in the initial three years of policy reforms and institutional capacity
building in the forestry and mining sectors would be scaled up during the following two years,
based on a review of results. The program may place greater emphasis on policy interventions
in the new oil and gas sector, and IDA and the four development partners would help the
government establish a policy and institutional framework on transparency in the award of
contracts and licenses, and in revenue management and allocation; and on environmentally
sound operations. It is important to meet the government demand for reform in this area due to
the high risk of “not getting it right” in this new emerging sector in Ghana. The principle of
intervention will follow the Extractive Industries Value Chain Approach (EITI++).
There are also prospects for a significant amount of financing from the Forest Investment
Program (FIP) under the Climate Investment Funds (CIF), for specific investments in
afforestation, possibly by leveraging private sector funds and through building on the
transparency principles achieved through NREG, and also providing funds through the
government budget for additional policy reform.

Beneficiaries

“NREG has provided the government of Ghana opportunity to confront very difficult public
sector management and oversight over sectors important for the Ghanaian economy. The
expected results of NREG is good governance but achieving this goal is a challenge because it
requires change of attitude in addressing environmental issues and the need to interact with
stakeholders like civil society as well as those in the mining, forestry and oil and gas industries”
says Jonathan Allotey , Executive Director of the Environment Protection Agency in Ghana.
“With the international community’s confidence in Ghana’s opportunity for development, we are
receiving a lot of support, but it is hard to manage the demands and expectations from each
development agency. With NREG, we have a one-stop shop for assistance to Ghana on
natural resources governance, namely the government system, and this is a very significant
achievement in itself. We are gradually strengthening our own systems for programming and
monitoring of government agencies’ performance,” says Franklyn Ashiadey, Principal
Economist, and NREG Multi-Sector Coordinator, Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning,
Ghana.
