Documenit of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 17605
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
TAMIL NADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1923-IN)
March 31, 1998
Infrastructure Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00 = Rs. 13.00 at appraisal (June 1, 1987)
Rs. 1.00 = US$ 0.07692 at appraisal (June 1, 1987)
US$ 1.00 = Rs. 36.18 at closure (September 30, 1997)
Rs. 1.00 = US$ 0.02764 at closure (September 30, 1997)
GOI/GOTN FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
m                     -           meter (39.37 iniches or 3.28 ft)
m2                                square meter (10.7639 square feet)
km                    -           kilometer (0.62 miles)
ha                    -           Iectare (10,000 square meters or 2.47 acres)
sq. kin               ,           square kilometer (0.386 square miles)
I                     -           liter (0.22 Imperial gallonis or 0.264 US gallons)
Ipcd                  -           liters per capita per day
Rs. I lakh            -           Rs. 100,000
Rs. I crore           -           Rs. 10,000,000
ABBREVLATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BUS                   -           Bus component of TNUDP
CMC                   -           City Maniagemenit Committee
DCA                   -           Developmenit Credit Agreeinent
DHRW                  -           Department of Higliways atid Ruiral Works
DEA                   -           Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finaince, GOI
DMA                   -           Directorate of Mumicipal Administration of GTN
DS&M                  -           Design, Supervision atid Matiagemeiit
DTCP                  -           Directorate of Town amid Country Plaitting of GTN
EC                    -           Etpowered Committee
ERR                   -          Economic Rate of Retunt
EWS                   -           Economically Weaker Sections
FOP                   -           Fitnancial and Operatitig Plan
GF                    -           Grant Fusid
GOI                   -           Goveminent of Itndia
GTN                   -           Govemmenit of Tasiil Nadu
GUD                   -           Guided Urbani Development Component of TNUDP
HEL                   -           Home Expansioni Loan
HIG                   -           High Income Group
LAS                   -           Ilidias Admtiiistrative Service
IUD                   -           Integrated Urban Development
LAND                  -          Land Servicing Program Componenst of TNuDP
LASER                 -           Land Shariig/Readjustinent for Private Slums
LCS                   -           Lease cum Sale Teniure Agreemeiit
LIG                   -           Low Income Group
MASCOT                -           Municipalities of Madurai, Salem, Coimbatore and Trichy
MAWS                  -           Municipal Adininistration and Water Supply
mlG                   -           Middle Income Groups
MMA                   -           Madras Metropolitan Area
MMC                   -           Madras Municipal Corporation
MMDA                  -           Madras Metropolitan Development Authority
MOMS                  -           Madras Outer Municipalities
MUDF                  -           Municipal Urban Developinent Fund of TNUDP
MUDP                              Madras Urban Developinerit Project (I and It)
O&M                   -           Operation and Maintenance
PMG                   -           Project Management Group of TNiUDP
PTC                   -           Pallavan Transport Corporation (Bus company of Madras)
PWD                               Public Works Department
S&S                   -           Sites and Services
SIP                   -           Slum Improvement Program Component of TNUJDP
SOE                   -           Statement of Expenditure
STOWAD                -           Storn Water Drainage Program
SUDAR                 -           State Urban Development Authority
TATE                  -           Technical Assistance and Training
TNHB                  -           Tamil Nadu Housing Board
TNSCB                 -           Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board
TNiUDF                -           Tamil Nadu Urban Development Fund
TNUDP                 -           TN Urban Development Project
TRAMP                 -           Transport and Traffic Management Program Component of TNUDP
ULCA                  -           Urban Land Ceiling Act
VETTT                 -          Municipalities of Vellore, Erode, Tirunelveli, Tuticorin and Tirrapur
WSS                   -           Water Supply and Sanitation
Vice President:                               Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:                             Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager:                               Frannie Humplick
Task Leader:                                  Hiroaki Suzuki



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
TAMIL NADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1923-IN)
Page No.
PREFACE                TABLE OF CONTENTS
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                       i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives                                             6
B. Achievement of Project Objectives                              8
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project  16
D. Project Sustainability                                        17
E. Bank Performance                                               18
F. Borrower Performance                                          19
G. Assessment of Outcome                                         19
H. Future Operations                                             20
I. Key Lessons Learned                                           20
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments                                  22
Table 2: Related Bank Loan/Credits                               23
Table 3: Project Timetable                                       25
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulated Estimated and Actual    26
Table 5: Key Indicators of Project Implementation                27
Table 6: Key Indicators of Project Operation                     29
Table 7: Studies Included in Project                             30
Table 8A: Project Costs                                          34
Table 8B: Project Financing                                      34
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits                             35
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants                              36
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements          39
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                           40
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions                               41
APPEND-ICES
A. Completion Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower's Evaluation
Map: IBRD No. 20554R
This document has a restricted distnbution  and  may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their off-icial duties. Its contents may not otherwise. be disclosed without
World Bank autihorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
TAMIL NADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1923-IN)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Tamil Nadu Urban
Development Project (TNUDP) in India, for which Credit 1923-IN in the amount of SDR216.5
million (US$300.2 million equivalent) was approved on June 15, 1988 and made effective on
November 7, 1988.
SDR22.0 million (US$30.5 million equivalent) and SDR10.8 million (US$15.0 million
equivalent) of the Credit were canceled on December 5, 1991 and May 1, 1993 respectively. There
were two one-year extensions of the original Credit closing date of September 30, 1995. On
October 11, 1996, during the second extension period, the project was restructured to permit
changes to the implementation arrangements of the project's Municipal Urban Development Fund
(MUDF) component, providing support for a new financial intermediary called the Tamil Nadu
Urban Development Fund (TNUDF).
There were two partial suspensions of disbursements of the Credit, both relating to a single
event, the implementation of a storm water drainage scheme in the city of Madurai. The first
suspension occurred on November 4, 1994 and was lifted on September 21, 1995 when the Bank
was satisfied with the action plan for the resettlement and rehabilitation of displaced persons. The
second suspension occurred on November 15, 1994 and was lifted on December 16, 1994 when the
Bank was satisfied with the project's SOE (Statement of Expenditure) procedures.
The Credit was closed on September 30, 1997 and the final disbursement took place on
February 19, 1998 at which time there was no Credit balance.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Michael Whitbread (Consultant) under the supervision of Mr.
Hiroaki Suzulki (Task Leader). The ICR was reviewed by Ms. Joelle Chassard, Team Leader,
SASIN, Mr. Alan G. Carroll, Sr. Urban Specialist, AFTU2, Ms. Hiroko Imamura, Sr. Counsel,
LEGSA, Mr. Cecil Perera, Sr. Disbursement Officer, LOAAS and Mr. N. Raman, Sr. Procurement
Officer, SACND.
The preparation of this Implementation Completion Report (ICR) began during the Bank's
completion mission in September 1997. The ICR is based on the mission's findings which are
included as Appendix A to the ICR, material from project files and discussions with Bank officials
and others involved with different stages of the project cycle. The Borrower contributed to the ICR
by providing data and views on the project outcome. The Borrower's evaluation is included as
Appendix B.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
TAMIL NADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1923-IN)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    TNUDP was the last of the integrated urban development (IUD) projects in India. It built
upon two earlier projects, the First and Second Madras Urban Development Projects. TNUDP
consisted of a program loan which served as a line of credit to a variety of institutions
undertaking urban development in the State of Tamil Nadu. It was a large, far-reaching and
complex project with many innovative policy, institutional development and project management
features. A number of these anticipated both current Bank policy and practice and the elements
of India's 74th Constitutional Amendment' on municipal strengthening which was introduced in
1992. One of these innovations was the establishment of a Municipal Urban Development Fund
to provide capital on a demand-driven and transparent basis to municipalities who up until this
point were starved for investment funds. The success of the MUDF led to a two year project
extension which was used to restructure and enable the further development and transformation
of the MUDF into a new financial intermediary called the Tamil Nadu Urban Development
Fund. The TNUDF has the participation of three private financial institutions as well as the
Government of Tamil Nadu (GTN). Following a request from the Government of India (GOI)
and GTN, the Bank and the Borrower are currently preparing a Second TNUDP which would
further develop the TNUDF.
Project Objectives
2.    TNUDP objectives at appraisal were: (a) to improve Tamil Nadu's state-wide capacity
for efficient management of urban and economic development; (b) to increase the supply of
legal, environmentally acceptable and affordable private and public serviced land as well as to
stem the absolute number of households living in slums; and (c) to strengthen the procedures and
institutions for revising bus fares and enhancing the accountability of the Chennai bus company,
and improve the identification and implementation of cost-effective urban road and traffic
I     The 74th Constitutional Amendment Act was passed in 1992 and it is currently being implemented by
states. The 74th CA is concerned with municipal strengthening following decades of neglect by the states. The
Amendment has three objectives: (a) to clarify functions and responsibilities; (b) to strengthen finances (including
the establishment of State Finance Commissions to advise on municipal financial strengthening); and (c) to impose
local democracy. For details of its implementation in Tamil Nadu, see Appendix A, Annex 7.



- ii -
management schemes. The objective of the restructured project was to further continue the
process of policy development and evolution by providing support for the financing of the new
financial intermediary. Objectives at appraisal were to be achieved through a covenanted
operational action plan containing 82 actions, and by the implementation of components covering:
the creation of the MUDF; support for Urban Management, TA, Training and Equipment; provision
of Shelter; and provision of Transport infrastructure and facilities. Although not formally stated in
the objectives, the project reflected the Bank's concerns for urban poverty, finance and the
environment, and the involvement of the private sector in the restructuring (see main text,
paragraph 4).
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The project contributed to major advances in urban finance in Tamil Nadu, not only
through the success of the MUDF and the TNUDF but by its pursuit of cost. recovery and the
self-financing of agencies, which had previously relied on subsidies (paragraphs 8-12). While the
project was unable to address the problem of the weak institutional and financial capacity of
municipalities, other major policy and institutional reforms were achieved (paragraph 13). The
Borrower's project management arrangements could have been more effective with greater
delegation of responsibility for resource allocation decisions, less frequent changes of senior staff
and contracting out a number of management functions (paragraphs 14 and 15). Physical
achievements were mixed: (a) the sites and services targets at appraisal were exceeded; (b) none
of the experimental guided urban development schemes were implemented; (c) slum upgrading
fell short of the targets and there were only two schemes on private land; (d) there were 37 major
road and related transport schemes but 13 remained incomplete even after the two year
extension; (e) bus targets were exceeded; (f) the MUDF greatly exceeded all expectations with
over 500 sub-projects in 94 municipalities; and (g) there was extensive training and effective use
of TA funds for a wide range of studies (paragraphs 16-23). In all cases the implementing
agencies adhered to the sub-project design guidelines established at appraisal and benefited target
groups as was intended.
4.    The prospects for the TNUDF are good and there are a considerable numnber of projects
currently in the pipeline (Appendix A, Part B). A second project would facilitate the growth of
the Fund and encourage increased support from private sector financial institutions.
5.    The only external factor of significance that affected the project was the depreciation of
the Rupee, which resulted in savings that led to two cancellations of the Credit. Savings from the
depreciation of the Rupee permitted continued financing during the extensSions and enabled the
restructuring to occur. There were two partial Credit suspensions as a result of an isolated
incident involving a storm water drainage scheme in the city of Madurai (paragraph 27). The
much-needed scheme was eventually implemented under the project after the suspensions were
lifted.



- 1ii -
Bank Performance
6.    A feature of Bank involvement was the continuity of the Task Manager and a core team
of technical specialists. This continuity extended from the earlier Madras I and II projects
through identification, preparation and supervision of TNUDP up until November 1994. At that
time, the Bank team changed in order to reflect the new direction of the project which focused on
the development of the financial intermediary and to resolve the resettlement issues pertaining to
the Madurai Storm water Drainage Scheme. Bank performance has been rated satisfactory or
highly satisfactory. Actual supervision time greatly exceeded appraisal expectations, but most of
the increase was due to additional Bank efforts regarding the suspensions and restructuring.
Borrower Performance
7.    The Borrower was fully committed during preparation and appraisal and performance
was highly satisfactory. Implementation performance was rated satisfactory. There were many
advances, most notably with the MUDF and other financial policy reforms, as well as with
physical progress on buses and sites and services. However, the Government often held up
major procurement decisions for considerable periods of time, and delayed important fare
revisions. The Department of Highways and Rural Works (DHRW), the implementing agency
for major roads, encountered considerable delays and cost overruns (paragraph 20), and the
Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) failed to fully execute its program (paragraph 19).
Assessment
8.    The overall achievement of the project has been rated as satisfactory. Many aspects of
this complex and far-reaching project were successful. Some of these successes were reflected in
the extensions to permit further development of the TNUDF and, in particular, the proposal to
design a follow-up project. These many successes, however, need to be weighed against failures
and some of the more limited project achievements (paragraph 39). The project's major
shortcoming was that it could not adequately address the weak institutional and financial
capacity of municipalities, even though GTN began to undertake the necessary corrective
measures that were in line with the 74th Constitutional Armendment a few months prior the
project's closing date.
Future Operations
9.    A follow-up project would provide continued support for the development of the TNUDF
(see Appendix A, Part B) and address the major shortcoming of the TNUDP mentioned in
paragraph 8. The objective of further lending would be to increase private capital flows to urban
infrastructure financing. This would be in keeping with one of the objectives of the 74th
Constitutional Amendment, to strengthen municipalities, and an area in which the Government is
currently undertaking extensive reforms (as explained in Appendix A, Annex 7). Participation
by the Bank would enable the TNUDF to continue to attract the interest of the private sector by
providing confidence, technical assistance, expertise and funds to maintain the scale of the
Fund's lending momentum.



- iv -
Key Lessons Learned
10.   The following summarizes the lessons learned (main text Section I):
(a)   Simplification. Bearing in mind the constraints on the institutional capacity of GTN as
well as the resources of the Bank, the project's scope should have been less ambitious and much
simpler. Although TNUDP's overall performance was better than those of other Bank-financed
integrated urban development projects in India, the Project Management Group and the Bank
could not address the problems of non-performing components such as TRAMP (road
construction) and SIP in a timely manner. The Bank needs to be highly selective about where it
operates and act swiftly and decisively when political commitment disappears. The project
restructuring was undertaken in order to re-focus the efforts of the GTN and the Bank on the
most successful and sustainable financial intermediary component.
(b)   Need for Strengthening of Municipalities. Financial intermediaries such as MUDF and
TNUDF can contribute to the strengthening of municipalities by imposing financial discipline on
them as a condition of loan provision, and by helping them develop municipal projects. However,
the financial intermediaries alone cannot address the fundamental problems of municipalities' weak
institutional capacities and weak financial situations. Most of the municipalities do not have
adequate financial, managerial, administrative, and technical institutional capacities, which should
be strengthened by TA and the training program. The municipalities' weak financial situations are a
result of institutional constraints which impinge on the effectiveness of resource mobilization
(unpredictable and discretionary intra-government transfer system with weak financial
accountability framework, inappropriate property tax assessment and inadequate user charge level
and collection). In order to improve the financial situations of the municipalities, the Govement
should undertake the reforms necessary to address these constraints.
(c)   Government Commitment. The project was most successful in the areas of policy
reform and good practice where Government support for the objectives was strongest. For
example, development of the urban financial intermediary scheme was successful and received
full backing from the State's Finance Department, as well as from the Department of Municipal
Administration and Water Supply.
(d)   Project Management. Project management would have been improved substantially if
greater decision making authority for resource allocation had been delegated to the Project
Management Group. Authority of this kind would have provided PMG with the means and
incentives to take prompt and effective action to correct any emerging inadequacies in
implementation.
(e)   Need for Addressing Urban Poverty. The low-income population represents about 40
percent of the urban population in Tamil Nadu. It is important to address urban poverty issues
through appropriate project design and the inclusion of a specific project component, such as the
Grant Fund, which finances the sub-projects targeted to the urban poor.



- v -
(f)    Continuity of Bank Staff. Policy continuity and a high level of personal accountability
were maintained by having virtually the same core team for project preparation, appraisal and
supervision, and retaining some of the team members who were involved with the earlier Madras
I and II projects. The team changed after November 1994 in order to accommodate the shift in
project focus to restructuring and the development of the financial intermediary and to resolve
the settlement issues. The latter team continues to work on the next possible operation.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
TAMIL NADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1923-IN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    At Appraisal. The project consisted of a program loan operated as a line of credit to
institutions undertaking urban development in the State of Tamil Nadu. The project built upon
earlier Bank-financed urban operations including the Madras I and II Urban Development
Projects. The INUDP project objectives at appraisal were: (a) to improve Tamil Nadu's state-
wide capacity for the efficient management of urban and economic development; (b) to increase
the supply of legal, environmentally acceptable and affordable private and public serviced land
and to stem the absolute number of households living in slums; and (c) to strengthen the
procedures and institutions for revising bus fares and enhance the accountability of the Chennai
bus company, and to improve the identification and implementation of cost-effective urban road
and traffic management schemes.
2.    At Restructuring. The project was restructured during its extension period. The
objective of the restructured project was to continue the process of policy development and
evolution by providing support for the creation of a new financial intermediary called the Tamil
Nadu Urban Development Fund (TNUDF).
3.    Components. The appraised project consisted of: (a) the creation of a Municipal
Urban Development Fund (MUDF) for equipment, civil works and associated technical
assistance for the complete range of functions and services performed by municipalities
throughout the State; (b) support for Urban Management, Technical Assistance, Training and
Equipment for the high level Empowered Committee, the Project Management Group (PMG),
City Management Committees (CMCs) and the project's implementing agencies; (c) provision of
Shelter infrastructure in the ten largest cities of the State including schemes for sites and
services, slum upgrading, and in the Chennai Metropolitan Region, guided urban development
for serviced plots serving the needs of primarily low income groups and involving private
2   In September 1996 the official name for the city of Madras was changed to Chennai. In this report Chennai is
used except where, for reasons of continuity (as with project names), it is appropriate to continue to use Madras.



- 7 -
landowners and developers; and (d) the provision of Transport infrastructure in the ten largest
cities in the State, including schemes for traffic management, signalization, road improvements
and new construction. Additionally in Chennai, this included the procurement of about 1.000
buses and a related workshop, depots, terminal improvements, and equipment. These project
components continued during the extension period but the justification for the extension was to
enable the restructuring of the project by facilitating the evolution of the successful MUDF into
the TNUDF.
4.    Urban poverty, Finance and Environment. Although not formally stated in its
objectives, the project focused on three Bank concerns: poverty alleviation, urban finance and
environmental improvements. Poverty was addressed through: (a) sites and services schemes
which included cross-subsidization of plot prices with the intention that 70% of the beneficiaries
would be poor; (b) slum upgrading which, in addition to its physical improvements, included the
transfer of the plot title to slum dwellers, at least 70% of whom are poor; (c) many MUDF sub-
projects which benefited the poor, such as public latrine provision and drainage improvements
which reduced the incidence of flooding in poor neighborhoods; and (d) a Grant Fund for
projects targeted to the urban poor was established in conjunction with the TNUDF.
Improvements in urban finance were addressed by the establishment the MUDF, its evolution
into the TNUDF, and the introduction of innovative pricing and cost recovery policies in all
other project components. Environmental improvements were anticipated in numerous sub-
projects in all components, including but not limited to efficient land use arrangements in sites
and services, physical up grading of slums, traffic management schemes, improved public
transport provision, hygienic market facilities, public burial grounds.
5.    TNUDP was the last Bank-supported Integrated Urban Development (IUD) Project
in India. Prior to the TNUDP the Bank had for many years supported a substantial program of
urban development projects in India. The TNUDP may be regarded as the culmination of this
earlier program. Although the TNUDP's coverage was larger than Madras I and II, its
performance was also better. The major difference in performance was due to the fact that the
resources under the TNUDP were channeled through the MUDF to the municipalities, while in
the case of Madras I and II the resources were allocated from the respective government
departments. The TNUDP evolved as a state-wide IUD from earlier single-city IUD projects
including those of Madras I and II. In the decade following TNUDP approval, there was no
further support from the Bank for urban development in India. In the urban sector only three
water supply and sanitation projects have been approved by the Board since the TNUDP was
approved in 1988 (see Table 2 for details). The main reasons for the demise of India's IUD
projects appear to be the Bank management's perception that the benefits did not justify the high
costs of preparation and supervision resulting from their complexity, and that the Borrowers did
not have adequate institutional capacity to manage IUD projects.
6.    Evolution to the TNUDF Financial Intermediary. The MUDF was established as a
GTN fund. It provided municipalities in the State with long-term financing for urban
investments. In order to further advance urban infrastructure finance, the M UDF was converted
into the TNUDF which has the participation of private financial institutions. The TNUDF has



- 8 -
been located outside Government and managed by a private fund management company called
the Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Financial Services, Ltd. (TNUIFS). The ultimate objectives
of the TNUDF are to provide self-sustaining finance and to mobilize private savings for urban
infrastructure. In requesting an extension of the project closing date, GTN and the GOI sought
Bank support for the establishment of the TNUDF. A second TNUDP is currently under
preparation and focuses on these TNUDF objectives as well as on the institutional development
of municipalities.
B.   ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
7.    The project objectives may be broadly grouped into institutional strengthening and
physical development. In both of these areas, TNUDP was a wide-ranging and complex project.
The following is a summary assessment of the project's achievements under these two headings.
Institutional Development Achievements
8.    MUDF . The MUDF was an experimental component designed to provide municipalities
with access to capital for investment purposes on a demand-driven, systematic and transparent
basis. Up until this point, municipalities had relied primarily on small and unpredictable capital
allocations from the State budget and were for all practical purposes, starved of investment
funds. In order to gain access to the MUDF funds, the municipalities had to adhere to financial
performance criteria established in a financing and operating plan (FOP) submitted to the Project
Management Group (PMG) as part of the loan application. Sub-projects were designed as a
second phase, once the FOP had been accepted. By the original closing date of TNUDP, the
MUDF had provided support to 94 of the State's 109 municipalities and municipal corporations
for over 500 sub-projects that covered a wide range of service and remunerative projects. In
addition, the MUDF had considered applications from 12 other municipalities but had denied
them access due to their poor credit-worthiness. For the most part, the MUDF sub-projects were
modest in scale, appropriate for the circumstances of the borrowers, and focused on the needs of
beneficiaries. The MUDF generated adequate profits from the satisfactory spread and high rate of
loan repayment, which were the result of adherence to well-defined lending rules and procedures.
GTN has gradually increased both lending rates to the MUDF and the MUDF's on-lending rates
to municipalities, reflecting the increase in GTN's borrowing rate from GOI. At the time of the
conversion of the MUDF into the TNUDF, these interest rates were about three percent below
the market rate.
9.    TNUDF . Despite its evident success, the MUDF displayed some weaknesses including
lengthy procedures and the potential for political interference (fortunately this was not
encountered in practice). These weaknesses were addressed when the project was restructured.
The extension permitted GTN to move towards restructuring the Fund by: (a) moving it from
government to corporate status; (b) providing opportunities for private financial institutions to
participate in further development and by introducing new lending instruments; and (c) widening
the range of potential beneficiary institutions, from municipalities exclusively, to any providers



- 9 -
of urban infrastructure. The TNUDF was established in November 1996 as a Trust with the
participation of ICICI, HDFC and IL&FS3. In addition to the new Fund, a Grant Fund was also
established that was financed by GTN for schemes benefiting low income groups as well as for
technical assistance for municipalities in project preparation and improvement of institutional
capacity.
10.   Since its inception, the TNUDF has appraised projects costing nearly Rs 2,000 million
(US$56 million) and approved loans of over Rs 1,500 million (US$43 million) to four municipal
corporations and 19 municipalities. This shows a significant increase in lend.ing performance
when compared with that of the MUDF which approved about Rs 2,000 million over an eight
year period. The TNUDF is profitable and its projects continue to finance important urban
infrastructure ranging from storm water drains to solid waste management to commercial
complexes. At closing there were projects in the pipeline amounting to nearly Rs 4,500 million
(US$130 million) (for details of TNUDF's performance including its financiEal result, see
Appendix A). Although the interest rates significantly declined in India in 1997/98 as a result of
lower inflation and reduction of the minimum cash reserve ratio at commercial banks, both GTN
and the TNUDF did not reduce their lending rates to TNUDF and the municipalities,
respectively. As a consequence, both borrowing and lending rates of the TNUDF are currently
close to the market rates. It is worth noting that the TNUDF's initial success ibuilt on MUDF's
eight years of experience and knowledge of municipal financing and that MU-DF played a critical
role in introducing term-lending into the municipal sector when the private financial institutions
were not interested in this market.
11.   Quality of the lending by both the MUDF and its successor, the TNU]DF, has been
satisfactory. Lending procedures have been strengthened for the TNUDF which now requires an
environmental and social report to address project issues. New methods such as BOOT
operations, including Karur Toll Bridge, have been introduced by the TNUD'F. Additionally, the
inclusion of private financial institutions has added to the TNUDF's efficiency and professional
expertise. It is expected that the TNUDF will continue to generate a profit and solidify its
performance. The challenge now is to strengthen this new institution so that it can tap into the
domestic capital market. The Bank is currently considering support for a second TNUDP which
would help the TNUDF mobilize resources from the domestic capital market in order to secure
sustainable fimding resources beyond the Bank's line of credit operations.
12.   Municipalities. One of the original project objectives stated in the 'SAR was "increasing
municipal capacity for urban management and investment programming and raising revenues for
maintenance and services". Although the MUDF and the TNUDF have to a large extent
contributed to the improvement of the financial discipline and investment programming of the
municipalities, the TNUDP could not fundamentally address the problem of weak institutional
capacity and the weak financial position of the municipalities. Most of the niunicipalities do not
have the adequate financial, managerial, administrative and technical capacity to deliver and
3  ICICI -- Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Ltd.; HDFC -- Housing Development Finance
Corporation; IL&FS -- Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services Ltd.



- 10-
maintain the required urban infrastructure services. The weak financial position of the
municipalities has evolved due to the unpredictable and discretionary intra-government transfer
system which suffers from a weak financial accountability framework, inappropriate property tax
assessment and inadequate user charge levels and collection. Recognizing these shortcomings,
GTN adopted, in the final stage of the project, a series of urban sector reforms including larger
financial devolution from the State to the municipalities, the property tax reforms and the
increase of user charges in line with the 74th Constitutional amendment. GTN also started to
provide the municipalities with technical assistance for the purpose of improving their
institutional capacity, using the newly established Grant Fund. The Bank intends to support
GTN's reforms and institutional development program under the next operation. It is clear that
the financial intermediary approach alone cannot address the problem of weak institutional
capacity and the financial position of the municipalities without sound urban sector reforms and
an institutional development program.
13.   Operational Action Plan (OAP).  There were many innovative policy, project
management and institutional development aspects in the TNUDP at the time of appraisal, some
of which anticipated current Bank policy and practice. Most of these innovations were included
in an agreed and covenanted OAP which was attached to the Minutes of Negotiations, and
included in Annex 4 of the SAR. Most OAP items were complied with the time of closing.
Those items not in compliance were as follows: (i) implementation of 10% of slum upgrading
schemes on private land; (ii) the TNSCB's (Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board) finance and
operating plan to be rolled on an annual basis; (iii) preparation of proposals for monitoring air
quality. The following was the experience with some of the principal reforms included in the
OAP:
(a)   On-lending Terms. The on-lending terms and conditions from GTN to the
implementing agencies were variable and moved towards higher rates in order to better reflect
4
the cost of capital on investment decisions4. The intention was to impose financial discipline on
the project agencies with a view to making them self-sufficient commercial entities. These terms
and conditions were adhered to by GTN during the project implementation with only minor
lapses arising from the movement in rates, which were promptly rectified.
(b)   Cost Recovery. All the components (apart from road schemes under the Transport and
Traffic Management Program /TRAMP) involved full cost recovery and the internal generation
of funds by agencies. The self-generation of funds by agencies was incorporated into the
project's financing plan (see Table 8B). This was a radical departure for urban institutions in
India at the time when agencies survived mostly on subsidies. In the case of the Land Servicing
Program (LAND) component and the Slum Improvement Program (SIP) component, revolving
4 This reflected GOI's policy of moving to market rates in its lending to the states. During the project
implementation period, GOI has adjusted its lending rate to GTN during the project implementation.



- I1 -
funds established under the earlier Madras II project were intended to make fiurther contributions
to the project financing plan. While none of the cost recovery targets were fully achieved,
contributions made by the implementing agencies in all cases were positive, and except for the
Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB), substantial.
(c)   Bus Fare Revision. To address regulation issues, GTN agreed to maintain a permanent
bus fare revision committee throughout the project period. However, GTN failed to comply for
most of the project period and the committee was called to meet once only. This reflected, in
part, GTN's infrequency of fare revisions with a resulting shortfall against the target in PTC's
(Pallavan Transport Company) cash generation. Reinstatement of this committee took place as a
condition of the first extension of the project and the new committee's first recommendation was
fully adopted by GTN.
(d)   Prototype Scheme Designs. The TNUDP was a programmatic project. At appraisal
only 5% of project cost was identified and appraised. Appraisal consisted prlimarily of
establishing sub-project identification and evaluation criteria for the LAND, SIP and TRAMP
schemes with model layouts and standardized and computerized feasibility studies (see Annexes
7, 8, 9, 10, 15 of the SAR). Bank procurement "no objections" depended, inter alia, on these
design and project evaluation guidelines being used by the agencies throughout the project. It is
difficult to assess the extent to which these procedures have led to a cultural shift at the agency
level in the way they approach investment expenditure. The continuation of their project MIS
and design criteria, and self-recognition of a changed approach, are all suggestive that permanent
improvements have occurred in the agencies, particularly at TNHB.
(e)   Private Land Development Experiments. There were two small experimental sub-
components in the project involving private land: (a) the Land Sharing/Readjustment for Private
Slums (LASER) was a slum upgrading program for households on privately owned land in the
Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) and 10% of the SIP program was intended for this purpose.
Ultimately, only two small private slum upgrading schemes involving about 1,500 households
were implemented by TNSCB, and neither was a pure LASER scheme since the landowners sold
to TNSCB in advance of the scheme; and (b) the Guided Urban Development (GUD)
component, which was designed to encourage private landowners to undertake developments for
low income groups in exchange for exemptions under the Urban Land Ceiling Act5. It was
intended that about 10,000 plots would be provided under GUD. However, no schemes were
negotiated with private landowners. This failure arose from the great difficulty that public
officials face when negotiating land deals with the private sector, and the better returns for many,
if not most, landowners as a result of undertaking illegal sub-divisions.
(f)   Financing and Operating Plans. All the implementing agencies (apart from DHRW)
prepared FOPs for appraisal. These plans typically looked forward five years and covered
5  The ULCA limits the quantity of urban land that can be held by private parties and has been widely criticized
as a constraint on development.



- 12 -
income generation, operations, investments and financing. The FOPs were based on computer
simulation models of the organizations and provided financial and performance projections.
While the TNSCB failed to maintain and roll-over its FOP, for the other agencies and the Project
Management Group, the FOPs proved to be a valuable and innovative tool. The PTC FOP was
based on a particularly well structured model and greatly influenced the investment management
and budget decision-making of the bus corporation.
(g)   Urban Policy in the State. During the preparation of the project and at several times
during its implementation the Bank discussed with GTN the establishment of a State Urban
Development Authority (SUDAR) which would advise the Government, undertake basic policy
research in the sector, and have substantial powers over the allocation of investment resources
within the franmework of the annual budget process. The PMG was considered by the Bank to be
a prototype of the SUDAR which could have evolved into a permanent organization. This
evolution failed to take place due to lack of interest in the concept within the Government's
sectoral Departments of Housing and Municipal Administration (MAWS). Given the weakness
of the PMG mentioned in the following paragraph and the risk that this kind of policy research
and investment planning authority tends to add another bureaucracy, it seems that the Bank's
strategy in developing the PMG as a State Urban Development Authority was not optimal,
although the Bank's concern about the need for improvement of the inadequate urban policy
making procedures of the Government was legitimate. In fact, a feature of implementation was
that support for the objectives of the project within GTN was strongest in the Finance
Department rather than the sectoral Departments, and major policy advances were made with
Finance suppoit. The principal reasons for this support were: (a) the project's adherence to
efficiency and cost recovery principles; (b) interest in the success of the MUDF/TNUDF for its
potential to reduce and rationalize the demands by municipalities on the State budget; and (c) the
scope for the project to become a direct contributor to the State budget (see Table 8B). At the
later stage, the Department of Municipal Administrations and Water Supply started to extend
support to the project objectives as GTN decided to shift many urban functions to the
municipalities in line with the 74th Constitutional amendment.
14.   Project Management Arrangements. The PMG was established as the nodal agency
for the project management and reported to the Empowered Committee chaired by the Chief
Secretary and consisted of Secretaries of the Departments concerned. It was staffed with senior
professional officers on delegation from their parent departments. The Project Director was
initially part-time but later at the Bank's insistence was posted on a full-time basis. The PMG
performed coordination and monitoring tasks and administered the MUDF. However, the PMG
lacked authority, ability or incentive to carry out management decisions. Ultimately the PMG
performed the role of postbox rather than of manager6. One problem was the lack of continuity.
Over a nine year period, there were 12 Project Directors and the PMG's senior professional
officer, the Chief Planner, changed seven times. At times, appointments to this and some of the
other key posts were not made on merit. The major lesson learned is that project management
6  The Borrower shared the view that the PMG was largely a postbox (see Appendix B, Borrower's Evaluation).



- 13 -
cannot be effectively undertaken by an oversight unit without the necessary authority and staff
continuity.
15.   At the local level, the project is managed by City Management Committees (CMC). The
CMC were headed by the District Collector, the Government's most senior ofFicer in each
District. Collectors changed frequently and focused on law and order rather than economic
development responsibilities. As with the PMG, these CMCs were not effective in assuming a
role in the planning and use of project funds despite the substantial contribution of the project to
each city's total capital expenditure. The same lessons learned at the PMG level are applicable to
the project management at the CMC level. There was little difference in performance among the
CMCs.
Physical Achievements
16.   The following paragraphs list component-wise achievements against the physical targets
set at appraisal. On a quantitative level, performance was mixed. Numerical targets were
exceeded for sites and services, buses, the MUDF and for training and TA, all of which reached
their targets by the original closing date. For slum upgrading and road schemes, performance fell
short of the target despite the extensions. However, in all cases the implementing agencies kept
to the sub-project design guidelines established at appraisal and target groups benefited in the
manner intended.
17.   LAND. The appraisal sites and services target was the achievement of nearly 70,000
serviced residential and non-residential plots on 950 ha of land. Ultimately, the achievement was
88,725 plots on 1,161 ha. This accomplishment was possible because the standard and
specifications for the sites and services scheme were well developed and had been agreed upon
by the Bank and the TNHB. At Credit closing, four schemes remained unfinished, although all
were close to completion. Virtually all plots on the completed schemes were allotted and in most
cases, the demand greatly exceeded supply7. Overall however, the occupation of plots had only
reached 10% at closing, with a maximum attainment of 25% on some schemes. Early occupation
was mainly by the MIG and the HIG households. Occupation had been slow throughout the
project period, and as a result of Bank pressure, procedures for planning and building permits
were streamlined and single window processing procedures were introduced. Four explanations
have been offered for the slow rate of occupation: (a) people did not wish to be first to settle a
new area and buildup accelerates once started; (b) funds for house construction were inaccessible
to low income groups; (c) there was speculation taking place in land against the effects of
inflation; and (d) the locations of the sites were not immediately attractive, even though the
expansion of transport infrastructure was planned. Home loans were provided under the project
for incremental construction which suggests that reason (b) may have only partial validity,
7 An extreme example is provided by Phase III of the Ambattur S&S scheme in the MMA, which was the last
scheme to be finished before closing. There were 231,000 registered applications for 1,366 plots.



- 14-
although it is the case that the majority of beneficiaries can only afford the most basic form of
housing. The TNHB is considering ways of increasing the rate of occupation through the
widening of the home loan facilities which would be funded by housing co-operatives. In the
future, the TNHB should select the sites based on a more thorough demand survey, including the
need for transportation infrastructure.
18.   GUD. The target at appraisal was for about 10,000 residential and non-residential plots
for low income groups on about 140 ha of land. There were no GUD schemes (see paragraph
13(e)).
19.   SIP. The target at appraisal was for about 94,000 households in 590 slums. The actual
achievement was 76,722 households in 490 slums. The GTN was reluctant to change the
classification of certain areas of land8 which limited the available stock of slums which could
benefit. Additionally, the TNSCB found obtaining the agreement of 70% of the households to
make the down payment before the scheme would commence difficult to achieve, especially in
areas where the value of the title was low. A benefit from the SIP schemes was the transfer of
title, and clearly, households occupying valuable sites had a greater incentive to participate in the
slum improvement program. It was hoped that 10% of SIP would be used for LASER, however,
there were only two small schemes on private land. In each of these cases, the landowner had
sold the land to the TNSCB before the scheme commenced and hence they were not true LASER
schemes.
20.   TRAMP. The TRAMP schemes included roads, bridges, etc., under the DHRW's
responsibility, and traffic management schemes undertaken by municipalities. There were very
few municipal schemes and those amounted to less than Rs 1 million. While no targets for the
number of the DHRW TRAMP schemes were established at appraisal, 37 schemes were
approved. In order to enter the project, schemes had to meet economic feasibility criteria
established at appraisal. All schemes reduced congestion, improved safety and increased
accessibility. Feasibility studies for all schemes were prepared for the DHRW by consultants
funded under the project. Although 24 schemes were completed, there were cost overruns for 17,
and time overruns for 21. None of the remaining 13 schemes were completed within the time
leading up to closing, and all had cost overruns. The State DHRW performed the least well of all
the implementing agencies. Excessive delays were experienced in the award of contracts and in
the execution of projects. These time overruns averaged one year and nine months on contract
periods of 18 to 24 months, and were mostly due to problems with land acquisition and the
movement of utilities. The explanations for cost overruns were poor initial estimations and
delays in reaching agreement with the Bank on the inclusion of price escalation in contracts.
21.   PTC. The appraisal target was for the provision of about 1,000 bus chassis and bodies
and improvements to about seven depots, 10 terminals and a major workshop. The target for
a  Known as "perumboke" land consisting, for example, of irrigation tanks, rivers, forest areas and road margins.
This land classification was not fully understood by the Bank at appraisal, and hence the quantity of slums capable
of improvement was over-estimated.



- 15 -
buses was exceeded, as 1,595 were provided. This achievement was possible 'because the PTC
was familiar with the bidding procedures as it regularly purchase a large numlbers of buses.
While four depots and seven terminals were provided, the workshop was not. However, fleet
expansion to meet demand was delayed by financial limitations arising from the GTN's
infrequent fare revisions. As a result, maximum bus ridership loading was exceeded throughout
the project period.
22.   MUDF/TNUDF. Due to its experimental nature, no targets were set at appraisal
although it was hoped that over 40 municipalities, and possibly as many as 80, would benefit.
Ultimately, the project supported over 500 individual schemes in 94 municipalities throughout
the State and exceeded expectations at appraisal. The MUDF financed relatively small municipal
projects such as solid waste management, storm drains, road improvement, street lighting, bus
stands, and market and commercial complexes. Success with the MUDF led to the creation of the
TNUDF (as discussed in 9).
23.   TATE. The project supported several hundred training initiatives including short and
long courses and study tours. In addition, project TA supported all the TRAMP feasibility and
other important developmental studies. Also included were some major studies which made
wider contributions to urban policy and development. These included: (a) a very effective
drainage master plan for the Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) which was used in the
preparation of the proposed Third Chennai Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project;
and (b) a comprehensive land use and transport study for Chennai as part of the revision of the
city Master Plan, which provided valuable insights and involved extensive computer modeling of
the urban system for the first time in India. In addition to assistance in the development of the
FOP (Financial Operating Plan) and sub-project preparation of the MUDF, the TATE component
did not extend adequate technical assistance to the municipalities to improve their financial,
managerial, administrative and technical capacity.
Overall Assessment of the Achievement of Project Objectives
24.   With such a complex and varied project it is difficult to sum up the extent of the
achievements but overall it has been rated as "successful". The main achievements were: (a) the
introduction and implementation of the new urban policy, in particular, cost recovery of urban
investment; (b) the project changed the culture and approach to planning and execution of many
of its main implementing agencies; (c) the MUDF/TNUDF was a major institutional success
which would be solidified by continued support from the Bank in a follow-up project; (d) the
physical achievement of the project exceeded appraisal expectations in most components except
for SIP and GUD; and (e) as intended, all project components mainly benefited the largely
neglected lower income segments of the urban population. The major shortcoming is that the
project could not adequately address the weak institutional and financial capacity of the
municipalities, although the GTN started to undertake corrective measures in line with the 74th
Constitutional Amendment at the final stage of the project implementation.



- 16-
C.   IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING
THE PROJECT
25.   There was substantial depreciation of the Rupee which resulted in savings. Otherwise, no
major external factors beyond the control of the Borrower affected the project. As a result of the
savings, there were two Credit cancellations during the course of the project and additionally,
savings were used to continue the lending program during the extension.
26.   Borrower Performance. Although the PMG management and staff carried out their
project coordination and monitoring activities with due diligence, the PMG's overall
management performance was weak and ineffective due to its structural problems described in
paragraph 14 and sporadic support from the high level Empowered Committee. The City
Management Committees were also largely ineffective. The implementing agencies mostly
performed their tasks to a satisfactory standard with the main exception being the DHRW whose
procurement performance was severely hampered by interference from the State Government in
normal procurement procedures which greatly added to the length of time taken to award
contracts.
27.   Credit Suspensions. Two suspensions arose from problems associated with a single
event, the Madurai STOWAD scheme. This event caused the Bank and the Borrower
considerable distress (see Appendix B for the Borrower's views). The initial problem arose from
a typhoon which hit the city in 1993 causing major flooding, several deaths and serious loss of
property. During a regular supervision mission in September 1994 the Bank discovered that, in
the climate of popular opinion following the disaster, illegal encroachers from the city's drain
margins had been moved by the municipal authorities since they had contributed substantially to
the flooding. The plan for the resettlement and rehabilitation of the displaced persons had not
been approved by the Bank, contrary to project agreements, and suspensions followed. The GTN
withdrew from the special account the costs of the STOWAD scheme which has not been
approved by the Bank. For this reason, the Bank suspended the disbursements against SOEs until
the Bank had reviewed and was satisfied that the accounting, control and audit system under the
project was adequate. The first suspension was lifted after nine months when the Bank was
satisfied with the R&R action plan, and the second after one month following inspection of the
project's record keeping arrangements. The much-needed scheme for storm water drainage was
eventually implemented successfully under the project. Most of the project affected people have
been resettled on the sites provided by the GTN free of charge, and the income generation
activities are ongoing with support of NGOs financed by the GTN.



- 17 -
Assessment of Project Risks
28.   Four risks were identified at appraisal, all of which were "internal" to the project:
(a)   doubts over the capacity of the PMG and the CMCs to maintain adequate standards of
review and management -- this risk was partially justified by events and affected the performance
of the SIP and TRAMP components;
(b)   fear that cost recovery targets by implementing agencies would not be rnet and that the
projections of resources from cash generation, which were made at appraisal, would not
materialize -- this risk was partially justified by events. All agencies/components failed to
achieve their cost recovery targets in full, although shortfalls were modest;
(c)   unforeseen legal and other obstacles could constrain implementation of the
'experimental' initiatives, particularly the GUD and the MUDF -- the outcome was that there
were no GUD schemes, largely as a result of lack of private landowner interest (see paragraph
13(e)), but the MUDF proved to be a highly successful initiative;
(d)   delays in land acquisition, particularly for the LAND program, would limit the execution
of schemes -- few land acquisition problems arose as at least 67% of the land required for LAND
was secured before effectiveness. However, the DHRW was held up in 19 schemes by
difficulties in acquiring land or negotiating the relocation of public utility infrastructure.
29.   Another risk that could have been identified at appraisal was that political interference in
procurement would hold up progress of major schemes, particularly roads.
D.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
30.   Assets created by the project have become the responsibility of the respective
implementing agencies, or of municipalities in cases where the assets have been handed over.
These assets are absorbed into the overall functions of the agencies and municipalities.
Therefore, the sustainability issues are the generation of funds to ensure that operations and
maintenance take place to satisfactory standards, and that the managerial and technical capacity
of the municipality enables it to undertake the necessary operation and maintenance work.
Although the financial position of the municipalities was very weak, it is expected that the
municipalities would have more resources as a result of the reforms (financial devolution and
property tax reform) which are occurring under the 74th Constitutional Amend.ment. Regardless,
the municipalities' institutional capacity should be significantly strengthened. A major problem
area is where there is slow occupation of sites and services schemes which have been handed
over to local bodies where there appears to be reluctance to devote resources to maintenance.
Similarly, the SIP schemes are also showing signs of low levels of maintenance by municipalities
(see Appendix A, Annex 4). It would be required that the GTN, municipalities, the TNHB and
the TNSCB should jointly develop the operation and maintenance plans for those assets under
the sites and services scheme and the SIP. The assets of the PTC have in the plast been properly
maintained and operated which is likely to continue.



- 18-
31.   The extent to which project initiatives will continue in some of the agencies is uncertain.
The TNUDF appears, on the basis of its pipeline of projects and financial projections, to have
good prospects for sustainability which would be considerably enhanced by continuing Bank
support in the form of a second follow-up project. Cultural changes seem to have occurred at the
TNHB which appear to have led to permanent improvements in procedures and are sustainable,
but this seems less likely at the TNSCB and the DHRW.
32.   The MUDF and the TNUDF have demonstrated their success as financial intermediaries.
The TNUDF is generating a profit with adequate spread and high debt service recovery. The
TNUDF's current borrowing and lending interest rates are close to the market rates. The GTN
requested the Bank's continuing support of the TNUDF. The Bank's continuing support is
justifiable as the TNUDF is still in very early stage of its development and cannot generate the
long-term funds in the capital market in India. In the next proposed operation, the Bank intends
to assist the TNUDF in raising the funds from the domestic capital market with the appropriate
credit enhancing mechanism to secure sustainable funding resources for the TNUDF.
33.   The GTN has just started to address the fundamental problem of weak institutional and
financial capacity of municipalities in line with the 74th Constitutional Amendment. This is the
underlying problem that the project was unable to adequately address. The proposed second
project would include a comprehensive institutional development component which would
support the GTN's efforts in this area.
E.   BANK PERFORMANCE
34.  Identification and Preparation. The TNUDP built upon the previous implementation
of MUDP I and II. While the Bank's performance has been rated as highly satisfactory, the
project identification and preparation required substantial resources, given its complex design
and ambitious scope.
35.  Appraisal. This has been rated as satisfactory. All Bank procedures were successfully
completed in a timely fashion. The appraisal of the project was undertaken by the same Bank
team who had identified and prepared the project and had earlier supervised the MUDF II.
However, the appraisal underestimated the effort that would be required to supervise this
complex and far-reaching project, and failed to establish sufficiently clear incentives for the
Borrower to take on the full management and supervision responsibilities.
36.   Supervision. The Bank regularly and comprehensively supervised the project (see Table
13). Bank missions in the period from project identification up until November 1994 consisted
of a small core of experts under a single Task Manager. The Bank team changed thereafter in line
with the new direction of the project, which focused on the development of the financial
intermediary and on the resolution of resettlement issues pertaining to the Madurai Storm Water
Drainage Scheme. The SAR recorded the expectation that supervision would require 120 s/w,
however, the actual supervision time was 294 s/w (see Table 12). About 35 s/w are attributable
to the additional efforts associated with the suspension of the Credit over the Madurai STOWAD



- 19 -
Scheme. The two extensions which enabled the evolution of the MUDF into the TNUDF added
about 70 s/w. Accordingly, the like-with-like comparison with the appraisal estimate of 120 s/w
is about 190 s/w of actual staff and consultant time. This difference is accounted for by the
failure of the PMG to take on the increased supervision responsibilities as the project progressed,
and the resulting need for the Bank to maintain its supervision efforts. During the extensions the
composition of Bank missions changed to reflect the new focus on restructuring.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
37.   Identification/Preparation/Appraisal. Senior officials of the GTN were committed to
the project and ensured that professional officers of good quality were assigned to the preparation
tasks. The Borrower performance has been rated highly satisfactory.
38.   Implementation. The PMG lacked authority, and the rapid turnover of Project Directors
and other key staff (see paragraph 13), as well as the limited interest of the Empowered
Committee, weakened project management overall. Some of the implementing agencies, notably
the DHRW and the TNSCB, were slow in to execute and did not perform well in utilizing
appropriate management information systems to implement their components. The PTC
performed well but was held back by financial constraints resulting from the GTN's infrequent
fare revisions. Some experimental aspects of the project were not successful, such as the GUD
and the LASER, although this was not due to lack of effort by the Borrower. The PMG
functioned efficiently as the fund manager of the MUDF, and the GTN has been dynamic and
proactive in pursuing its evolution into the TNUDF. The GTN and the PMG could not address
the weak institutional and financial capacity of the municipalities, even though the GTN started
to take corrective measures in the final stage of the project. Although there were lapses in
covenant compliance during implementation, at the time of the original and final closing dates
9
the Borrower was in compliance9. Overall, implementation by the Borrower has been rated as
satisfactory.
G.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
39.   The overall achievement has been rated as satisfactory. Many aspects of this complex
and far-reaching project were highly successful. The successes were reflected in the extensions
to enable further development of the TNUDF and in particular, the proposal to design a second
project. But these many successes need to be weighed against failures and some of the more
limited achievements, including: (a) slow performance by some of the agencies, notably the
DHRW and the TNSCB; (b) absence of any of the GUD schemes and only two of the LASER;
(c) the limitations of the PMG and lack of interest of the CMCs; and (d) the failure of the project
to address the weak institutional capacity and financial position of the municipalities. Without
diminishing its evident success, the MUDF had important limitations, for example, its slow and
conservative procedures which would have prevented it from fulfilling its role as a provider of
9   The only exception was the late audit of the Special Account at the time of final closing. This is a GOI
responsibility.



- 20 -
urban infrastructure finance. These limitations were addressed in the restructuring and creation of
the TNUDF.
40.   The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was calculated at appraisal for the LAND to be
about 20% and the actual LAND returns were comparable to those at appraisal. The return on the
prototype TRAMP schemes at appraisal averaged 12%. Data were not available to compute
actual ERRs on TRAMP schemes during the final supervision mission. At appraisal separate
calculations were performed for the replacement and augmentation aspects of the PTC bus
procurement. The replacement calculation was based on the discounted cost savings over its life
of a new versus old vehicle. It was recognized, however, that the operations and maintenance
data in these cases were of doubtful quality. The augmentation calculation was based on the
benefits minus the costs of an addition to the fleet. The PTC bus procurement ERR was about
15%, lower than the 21% at appraisal, reflecting the resistance by the GTN to permit timely fare
revisions.
H.   FUTURE OPERATIONS
41.   A follow-up project would provide continued support for the development of the TNUDF
(see Appendix A, Part B for details). The objectives of further lending would be to support the
GTN's urban sector reforms through the institutional development component and to continue to
strengthen the TNUDF in order to make it a sustainable financial intermediary. Participation by
the Bank would enable the TNUDF to continue to attract the interest of the private sector by
providing confidence, technical assistance, expertise and funds to maintain the scale of the
Fund's lending momentum.
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
42.   Simplification. Bearing in mind the constraints on the institutional capacity of the GTN,
as well as the resources of the Bank, the project scope should have been less ambitious and
greatly simplified. Although the TNUDP's overall performance was better than that of other
Bank-financed integrated urban development projects in India, the Project Management Group
and the Bank could not address the problems of non-performing components such as the
TRAMP (road construction) and the SIP in a timely manner. The Bank needs to be highly
selective about where it operates and act swiftly and decisively when political commitment
disappears. The project restructuring was undertaken to re-focus the effort of the GTN and the
Bank on the most successful and sustainable financial intermediary component.
43.   Need for Strengthening Municipalities. The financial intermediaries such as the MUDF
and the TNUDF can contribute to the strengthening of municipalities by imposing financial
discipline on them as a condition of loan provision, and by helping them to develop municipal
projects. However, the financial intermediaries alone cannot address the fundamental problems of
the municipalities' weak institutional capacities and weak financial situations. Most of the
municipalities do not have adequate financial, managerial, administrative, and technical
institutional capacity, which should be strengthened by TA and training programs. The



- 21 -
municipalities' weak financial situations have been created by the regulatory constraints which
impinge on the effectiveness of resource mobilization (unpredictable and discretionary intra-
government transfer system with weak financial accountability framework, inappropriate property
tax assessment and inadequate user charge levels and collection). The Government should
undertake the reforms necessary to address these regulatory constraints.
44.   Government Commitment. The project was most successful in the aspects of policy
reform and good practice where the Government support for the objectives was greatest. For
example, development of the urban financial intermediary scheme was successful and received
the full support of the State's Finance Department, as well as from the Department of Municipal
Administration and Water Supply.
45.   Project Management. Project management would have been enhanced substantially by
the greater delegation of decision making authority for resource allocation lto the Project
Management Group. Authority of this kind would have provided the PMG with the means and
the incentives to take prompt and effective action to correct any emerging inadequacies of
implementation.
46.   Need for Addressing Urban Poverty. The low-income population represents more than
30 percent of the urban population in Tamil Nadu. It is important to address urban poverty issues
through appropriate project design and the inclusion of a specific project component, such as the
Grant Fund, which finances the sub-projects targeted to the urban poor.
47.  Continuity of Bank Staff. Policy continuity and a high level of personal accountability
were maintained by having virtually the same core team for project preparation, appraisal and
supervision, and by retaining some of the team members who had been involved with the earlier
Madras I and II projects. After November 1994, the team changed in order to re-focus the project
on restructuring and the development of the financial intermediary, which occurred after the
initial closing date and to resolve the resettlement issues pertaining to the Madurai Storm Water
Drainage Scheme. The latter team continued to work on the design of the proposed second
project.



- 22 -
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
_                                                                           :~11~Aflt,Af.
Macro policies                                                                                /
Sector policies
Financial objectives                                        V
Institutional development                                   V
Physical objectives                        /
Poverty reduction                             -
Gender Issues                                                                                 /
Other social objectives                                                                       V
Environmental objectives                   /
Public sector management                                    V
Private sector development
Identification 
Preparation assistance                                      v
Appraisal 
Supervision                                                 V
Preparation                                V
Implementation                                              /
Covenant compliance                        V
Operation (if app]licable)



- 23 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title            Purpose                                Year of approval     Status
Preceding operations
1. Second Calcutta UD     Single city integrated urban development (IUD)   1978           Closed
Project (Cr.0756-IN)      project to extend and rehabilitate city's urban
service systems, and upgrade capacity of local
bodies.
2. Second Bombay WSS      Construction of water supply and distribution  1979              Closed
Project (Cr.0842-IN)      works and sewerage improvements, slum
sanitation provision, water conservation, TA.
3. Second Madras UD        Single city IUD project including: development   1981           Closed
Project (Cr. 1082-IN)     of plots; slum improvements; provision of buses;
municipal services; and, TA.
4. Kanpur UD Project      Project focused mainly on sites and services and   1982          Closed
(Cr. 1185-IN)             slum upgrading; also included infrastructure and
municipal services improvements and TA.
5. Third Calcutta UD      Single city IUD project, involving the spreading    1983        Closed
Project (Cr. 1369-IN)     of infrastructure and service improvements
outside of metrocore.
6. Madhya Pradesh UD      Project mainly focused on shelter and sanitation    1983         Closed
Project (Ln.2329-IN)      improvements, in 10 cities.
7. Bombay UD Project      Single city IUD project including: land      1985               Closed
(Cr. 1544-iN)             infrastructure servicing; slum upgrading; local
govemment finance and administration, and
services; and TA.
8. Gujarat UD Project     Appraised as a state-wide multi-city IUD project   1986         Closed
(Cr.1643-IN)              with emphasis on: shelter; infrastructure; slum
upgrading; solid waste; and, institutional
strengthening. Restructured with large rural WS
component.
9. Third Bombay WSS       Project involved expansion of WS and sewerage   1987             Closed
Project                   facilities in the city; sanitation for urban poor;
(Cr. 1750/Ln2769-lN)      and, improvements to implementation capacity.
10. Uttar Pradesh UD      State-wide multi-city IUD project with all main    1987         Closed
Project                   sectors included: institutional improvements;
(Cr. 1780/Ln.2797-IN)     municipal services; shelter; traffic and transport;
water supply and sanitation. Also support to
Ganga Action Program. Emergency earthquake
reconstruction component added.
1l. First Madras WSS     Ground water supply, distribution and waste  1987               Closed
Project (Cr. 1 822/Ln.2846-    water improvements in city with small LCS
IN)                       component and institutional improvements.



- 24 -
Following operations
1. Hyderabad WSS Project   Expansion of WS to city, rehabilitation and  1990             SPN-Active
(Cr.2115/Ln.3181-IN)      strengthening of existing WSS systems, with
LCS component and institutional strengthening.
2. Second Madras WS       Project includes: major scheme to bring     1995               SPN-Active
Project (Ln.3907-0/6 IN)  additional water to city; distribution and
conservation improvements within city; and, TA.
3. Bombay Sewage          Project included: construction of 2 outfall  1996              SPN-Active
Disposal Project          sewers; pumping facilities; sewage treatment;
(Cr.2763/Ln.3923-IN)      sewerage system improvements and
rehabilitation; and, slum sanitation.
Table 2 lists all urban development and urban water supply and sanitation (WSS) projects in India for the 10 years
of preceding, and the years following, TNUDP approval.
Year of approval is Bank fiscal year.
Under Status: SPN-Active indicates that the project is being implemented and is under active supervision.



-25 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned         Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification                                                    Nov-85
Concept Review                                                   28-Jan-86
Pre-Appraisal                                July-87             01-Jul-87
Appraisal                                     Oct-87             01-Oct-87
|_Negotiations                                Apr-88             19-Apr-88
Board Presentation                            Jun-88             15-Jun-88
Signing                                                          116-Sep-88
Effectiveness                                                    07-Nov-88
Mid-term Review                                none                none
First Extension from                                             01-Oct-95
Second Extension from                                            01-Oct-96
Credit Closing                              30-Sep-95            30-Sep-97



- 26 -
Table 4: Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY        1989 i  1990   1991 4     1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
Appraisal
18.0    62.9   118.9   179.5   241.1   281.2   297.2   300.2   300.2    300.2
Estimate
19.56   36.75    56.41    69.13    91.19  113.56  131.43  146.35  171.52    183.7
1.3142   1.4227   1.4304    1.375   1.3736  1.4599  1.4865   1.438   1.365    1.365
Actual          25.7    52.3    80.7    95.1    125.3   165.8   195.4   210.5   234.1    250.8
Actual as
Percentage     142.8    83.1    67.9    53.0       52.0    59.0    65.7    70.1    78.0       83.5
of Estimate:



- 27 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I.  Key Implementation Indicators
in SAR/ President's Report                Estimated                            Actual
1. Expenditure against project (SAR)
targets
A. Institutional
(i) MUDF                                    Rs. 1,786 million                   Rs. 2,205 million
(ii) Technical Assistance and Training       Rs. 137 million                     Rs. 191 million
B. Shelter
(i) Land                                    Rs. 2,387 million                   Rs. 3,179 million
(ii) GUD                                     Rs. 143 million                          nil
(iii) SIP                                    Rs. 459 million                     Rs. 324 million
C. Transport
(i) TRAMP                                    Rs. 967 million                    Rs. 1,862 million
(ii) PTC                                     Rs. 584 million                     Rs. 929 million
2. Physical progress against project
(SAR) targets:
A. Institutional
(i) MUDF                           Finance primarily 80 municipalities in   94 municipalities throughout the State
the 10 largest urban agglomerations.    have accessed the Fund.
(ii) Technical Assistance and Training   Studies in over 27 areas. Training  Studies completed in 51 areas.
program not defined in detail.     Extensive training completed.
B. Shelter
(i) Land                           About 950 ha. of land for about     1,161 ha. of land and 88,725 plots.
70,000 serviced residential and non-
residential plots to be provided.
Not less than 55% for households at or  92% of plots allocated were to
below poverty line.                economically weaker sections (EWS)
and Low Income Groups (LIG).
(ii) GUD                           About 140 ha. land for about 10,000    nil
residential and non-residential plots
for low income groups.
(iii) SIP                          About 94,000 households in 590      76,722 households in 490 slums.
slums.
C. Transport
(i) TRAMP                          none                                                                  l
(ii) PTC                           Provide about 1,000 bus chassis and  1,595 buses, 4 depots and 7 terminals
bus bodies. Improve about 7 depots. A   provided.
major workshop at Perambur. About
10 terminals



- 28 -
3. Resource Mobilization, Pricing and
Affordability
A. Institutional
(i) MUDF                          Municipalities to become credit    About 10% default rate on
worthy.                           repayments. Only one serious
defaulter out of 94 borrowers.
(ii) Technical Assistance and Training
B. Shelter
(i) Land                          Down payments from residential plots  50% financed.
and proceeds of outright sale would
finance 40-50% of the chargeable cost
of LAND.
(ii) GUD
(iii) SIP                         Down-payments ranging from 10 to   At least 70% of households made
20% for different size plots would  down-payments in all schemes.
fund about 15% of component cost.
C. Transport
(i) TRAMP
(ii) PTC                          In excess of 20% of the PTC        About 11% funded.
investment program would be funded
from internal generation.
11.  Indicators at Project
Restructuring
1. First Extension
Suspension of STOWAD              Take remedial action satisfactory to  Completed
IDA on resettlement and rehabilitation
of project affected persons and lifl
suspension of STOWAD.
New Intermediary                  Clarify the legal issues on the    Completed
commercialized fund.
Environmental issues              Submit a resettlement policy and   Completed
implementation framework.
Submit draft TORs and Short Lists of   Completed
consultants for the following services.
(i) a survey on the past land
acquisition practice and resettlement
(ii) preparation of appraisal and
operation guidelines on R&R issue
(iii) preparation of Environmental
Assessment Operation Guideline.



- 29 -
Table 6: Key Indicators of Project Operation
None



- 30 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Stud:y             at Appraisal/Redefined           Status           Impact of Study
LAND
Study on Settlement Status   Assist project implementation  Completed      Assisted with housing
in S&S scheme in MMA                                                       policies and allocations
Study on Shelter Strategy    ditto                       Completed         --
for 3 towns
Study on Co-operative     Assess potential of social housing   Completed   None
Housing                  sector
Consumer Preferences      Assist project implementation  Completed         Important input to project
design
Occupancy of plots in S&S   ditto                        Completed         Assisted with policy
scheme in TN
Long term land acquisition   Strengthen institutional capacity    Completed  For future developments
programs                                                                   following utilization of
public lands.
Shelter strategies in TN  Develop institutional strategy on    Completed   Assisted with housing
shelter                                          policies.
Management information    Strengthen institutional capacity    Completed   Assisted project planning
systems for civil works                                                    and execution.
contract
GUD and LASER
Survey on illegal         Assist project identification and  Completed     None
subdivisions              implementation
SIP
Study on Relocation of   Not defined at appraisal        Completed         Project planning and
slum dwellers on Cochrane                                                  feasibility
Basin Bridge
Study on pavement        Assist with project planning    Completed         ditto
dwellers
Documentary on slums     Not defined at appraisal        Completed         Useful background
Slum survey               ditto                          Completed         Essential inputs to the
project planning



- 31 -
TRAMP
31 feasibility and        Assist project implementation  Completed         Essential inputs
Preparation studies
Objective check on        Not defined at appraisal       Completed         Part of project monitoring
TRAMP compliance
Updating of TRAMP         ditto                          Completed         Additional project
Scheme                                                                     feasibility at time of
project extension
Comprehensive traffic and   For preparation of medium-term  Not done except   (see General Studies
transportation studies for    investment strategies      for Madras        below)
project cities
BUS
Exclusive Bus way on      Not defined at appraisal       Completed         Feasibility study. Did not
Anna Salai Corridor                                                        proceed to execution due
to cost and environmental
concerns.
Bus joumey time study     Assist PTC operation           Completed         Improved bus efficiency
FOP for PTC               Prepare financial and operation  Completed       Essential input to project
plan for PTC                                     planning and monitoring
Bus life-cycle replacement   Efficient bus replacement   Not done          None
costs                     decision-making policy
FOP for other TN bus                                     Not done          None
companies
Traffic Equipment Study   Assist PTC operation           Completed         Feasibility Study
Software Development for   Prepare software for PTC      Completed         Helped reduce staff nos.
PTC                       operation                                        and increase
decentralization.
Wage contract system      Strengthen institutional capability   Not done   None
of PTC
Regional Re-organization    ditto                        Completed         Bus company was
study                                                                      bifurcated in 1994.
Transport users' opinion  Assist project implementation  Completed         Important market
and market survey                                                          research study. Assisted
with pricing strategy.
MUDF/TNUDF
Municipal FOPs (94 in     Strengthen capacity of         Completed         Essential inputs to Fund
total)                    municipalities and corporations                  decision-taking



-32 -
Municipal projects       Design work for projects approved  Completed    ditto
feasibility studies      for funding
(numerous)
Environmental and Social   Not defined at appraisal     Completed        Assist implementation of
Report                                                                   New Financial
Intermediary at time of
restructuring
Financial Management     ditto                          Completed        ditto
Studies
Audit Consultancy        ditto                          Completed        ditto
Legal Consultancy        ditto                          Completed        ditto
Grant Fund Guidelines    ditto                          Completed        ditto
Study
STOWAD
3 Master Plans           Assist project implementation  Completed        Important preparation and
feasibility studies in 3
major towns
PMG
MIS                      Assist PMG operation           Completed        Essential for successful
management of this wide-
ranging project.
General Studies
Pilot Study on Historical    Not defined at appraisal   Completed
town
Feasibility Study for the  Not defined at appraisal     Completed        Implementation will be
Chennai Mofussil Bus                                                     taken forward by CMDA
Terminal at Koyambedu
Environmental Impact     Not defined at appraisal       Completed        Important study to
Assessment for                                                           identify scope for
Pallikarannai Area                                                       development of swamp
area in S. Chennai.
Housing & Land           Assist with State U.D. policy for    Completed  Provided important
Development Program      formulation                                     background data
Municipal Solid Waste    Not defined at appraisal       Completed        Feasibility study-project
Management Study                                                         proposed for Third
Chennai Water Supply
and Enviromnental
Sanitation Project



- 33 -
Study on Direct and      Not defined at appraisal       Completed        Background data for
Indirect employment                                                      policy-making
Water supply and sewer   Not defined at appraisal       Completed        None
design
Effective demand for     Assist with State U.D. policy for    Completed  Background data for
housing                  formulation                                     policy-making
Comprehensive traffic and   Not defined at appraisal    Completed        Assisted with Master Plan
transportation study for                                                 update for Chennai Met.
Madras                                                                   Reg.
Aerial surveys for major    Input to computerized mapping  Completed     Maps produced and in
towns                                                                    use by Dept. of Town and
Country Planning and
Consultants.
Improvements to road     Not defined at appraisal       Completed        Assist planning of a new
around Koyambedu                                                         commercial center in
Chennai
Community awareness      Not defined at appraisal       Completed        Study was input into
environment and health                                                   preparation of proposed
education study for MMA                                                  Third Chennai Water
Supply and
Environmental Sanitation
Project.
Study of fiscal and      Assist U.D. policy formulation.  Not done       None
investment factors
impacting on when
economic development in
TN
Development of set of    ditto                          Not done         None
indicators for economic
activity in project areas
Study to determine how to   ditto                       Not done         None
hold income distribution in
project cities
Note: General Studies were undertaken for urban policy improvements in the State, or to assist with issues that arose
during the project implementation. They were not linked to specific project components.



- 34 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Component                     Rs million                    US$ million
Appraisal        Actual        Appraisal       Actual
LAND                               2,387.0         3,179.4           167.3          117.4
GUD                                  143.0             --              9.1            --
SIP                                  458.7           324.2            31.7           13.7
TRAMP                                967.1         1,861.6            68.3           71.4
PTC                                  583.5           929.2            40.4           37.0
MUDF/TNUDF                          1,786.1        2,204.6           127.0          74.8
TATE(PMG/MMDA)                          (*)          190.8             (*)            7.0
PMG/CMC                                 (*)          122.5             (*)            3.4
Total       6,325.5         8,812.3          443.7          324.7
(*)   These items were allocated over all others at appraisal
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Sources                      Appraisal                       Actual
US$ million  |                 US$ million         %
IDA                                   300.2           67.0           250.8           78.3
GTN                                     4.2             1.6          -28.8            -9.0
LAND Revolving Fund                    17.3             3.9           31.6             9.9
SIP Revolving Fund                      3.3             0.7            0.0             0.0
LAND Internal Generation               78.7            17.7           16.8             5.2
SIP Internal Generation                 4.9             1.1            1.5             0.5
PTC Internal Generation                 8.2             1.8            4.4             1.4
MUDF/TNUDF Generation                  27.0             6.1           23.0             7.2
HUDCO                                    --              --           21.1             6.6
Total         443.7            100.0T         320.3         1100.0
The possibility of HUDCO participation in the financing of the project was discussed at negotiations. It was agreed
that HUDCO would participate on the same terms and conditions as IDA funds if internal cash generation in the
LAND component fell short of expectations. This was intended to cushion the State budget. HUDCO financing
commenced from March 31, 1989. In fact, the combination of HUDCO finance and increases in the disbursement
percentages introduced by the Bank following the Gulf War turned the State budget into a project net beneficiary.



- 35 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Actual returns for LAND schemes were comparable to those calculated for prototype schemes at
appraisal since the implementation conditions were almost identical to those appraised. These
returns were about 20%.
A similar economic analysis was performed as was conducted at appraisal (SAR Annex 24) on
the decisions to augment and replace the bus fleet. The replacement calculation was based on the
discounted cost savings over its life of a new versus old vehicle; it was recognized, however, that
the operations and maintenance data in these cases was of uncertain quality. The augmentation
calculation was based on the benefits minus costs of an addition to the fleet. The methodology
relied on the fare levels as a measure of benefits. PTC bus procurement ERR was about 15%,
lower than the 21% at appraisal reflecting the resistance by GTN to permit timely fare revisions.
Data limitations precluded the calculation of returns on the major road schemes. The Bank has
requested DHRW to perform the calculations for completed schemes.



- 36 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Section    Covenant Present  Original   Revised          Description of            Comments
type    status  fulfillment fulfillment      covenant
date      date
DCA       4.01 (a)(i)   I        C                              Borrower to maintain    Suspension on 15-Nov-
records and accounts in    1994 for quality of record
accordance with sound   keeping was lifted on 16-
accounting practice     Dec- 1994 following
inspection finding all in
order
4.01(a)(ii)    I      C                              All records on expenditure
to be retained at least one
year.
4.01(a)(iii)   9      C                              Enable IDA representatives
to examine such records.
4.01(b)(i)    I       C                              Records and accounts to be
audited for each fiscal year
in accordance with
appropriate principles
acceptable to IDA.
4.01(b)(ii)    I      C        31-Dec-95             Furnish IDA auditors
report every fiscal year,
including separate audit
opinion.
4.01(b)(iii)   I      C                              Furnish IDA other
information concerning
records, accounts and the
audit, as IDA shall request.
4.02         1        CD       30-Apr-95             Special Account for each
fiscal year to be audited
with sound accounting
practices.
PA        2.01(a)       5        C                              The Project to be carried
out with due diligence and
financial and engineering
practices. Facilities and
services to be provided as
needed.
2.01(b)(i)    5       CD                             The project to be carried    There was a lag in
out in accordance with the  implementation compared
Implementation Program.  with the program.
2.01(b)(ii)   10      C                              To substantially implement 79 of 82 agreed actions in
an agreed Operational   OAP were complied with.
Action Plan (OAP)       Borrowers failed to:
implement 10% SIP on
private land; revise and
roll over annually
TNSCB's FOP; prepare
proposals for monitoring
air quality.
In the Madurai STOWAD
component, OAP. 1.12
l_____                                                requiring the project



- 37 -
implementing agency to
make survey and to make
formal arrangements for
offering compensation to
households in the form of
serviced plots in project
sites and services scheme.,
was not complied. This in
compliance has led to the
project partial suspension
in November, 1994. This
condition was met nine
month after the
suspension.
2.01(c)      4         C                              Make available to the    Some lapses occurred but
Implementing Agencies    were corrected. E.g. GTN
funds on terms and       did not lend to PTC as
conditions satisfactory to   agreed early years.
IDA.
2.02         3         C                             Procurement financed by
IDA to be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 1.
3.01(i)      5         C                             Implementing Agencies to  Improvements were made
conduct their operations   throughout the Project.
according to sound
administrative financial
and engineering practices
under supervision of
qualified management.
3.01(ii)     5         CD                            Maintain their assets and   Missions applied pressure
make all necessary repairs  to agencies, especially
and renewals in accordance TNHB, TNSCB and
with sound engineering   DHRW, to maintain assets.
and financial practices.
4.01(b)(i)   I         C                              TNHB, TNSCB, PTC,
Madras, Coimbatore,
Madurai, Salem and Trichy
to have project accounts
audited for each fiscal year.
4.01(b)(ii)    I       C       31-Dec-95             Furnish to IDA every fiscal In few cases there were
year certified copies of  delays in submission of
audited financial       audits
statements and auditors
report.
4.01(b)(iii)   I       C                             Furnish to IDA other
information on records,
accounts, financial
statements and the audit as
per IDA request.
4.02         2         C                             PTC operation costs      Due to persistent delays by
(including depreciation,    GTN in implementing fare
but excluding interest and  revisions this covenant
other debt charges) not to   was not in compliance in
exceed 98% of operating   | specific years, although



-38 -
revenues.                overall was in compliance.
4.03         4         C                               Reimburse PTC at rate of  GTN increased
70% for losses on student  reimbursement rate to
riders in 2 installments  100% during the Project.
every year.
4.04(a)      2         C                               PTC to produce funds from  In some cases, in order to
internal sources equivalent avoid failing in this
to not less than 20%b of  covenant. PTC held back
annual average of capital   on its procurement
expenditures.            program.
Schedule2(1) 3         C                               Rules and procedures of
MUDF and terms and
conditions for its loans and
grants to be satisfactory to
IDA.
Schedule2(2) 10        C                               LAND scheme to be
implemented only on sites
selected in accordance with
criteria satisfactory to IDA.
Schedule2(3) 10        C                               Scope and regulations in
LAND, GUD and SIP
schemes to be satisfactory
to IDA.
Schedule2(4) 2         CP                              In LAND, GUD and SIP   LAND scheme recoveries
schemes, GTN to recover  sometimes slipped due to
all chargeable costs from    absence of building
beneficiaries. Terms and    certificates, later corrected.
conditions of loans and  SIP recoveries were poor.
leases, and beneficiary
selection criteria to be
satisfactory to IDA.
Schedule2(5) 5         C                               GTN to maintain the
Empowered Committee,
PMG and CMC.
Covenant types:
1. = Accounts/audits                                  8. = Indigenous people
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from     9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                  10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds            11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. = Counterpart funding                                     allocation
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing   12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                                regulatory/institutional action
6. = Environmental covenants                          13. = Other
7. = Involuntary resettlement
Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



- 39 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No significant lack of compliance apart from the case of the Madurai STO WAD scheme referred
to in the text.



- 40 -
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                              Planned            Revised             Actual
Project Cycle                                                                                I
Weeks    US$    Weeks    US$   Weeks   US$
Through Appraisal                         n/a       n/a       n/a      n/a      68.7      125.9
Appraisal-Board                            n/a      n/a       n/a      n/a      39.9      70.0
Supervision                               n/a       n/a       n/a      n/a     294.5    592.2
Completion                                n/a       n/a       n/a      n/a      19.0      57.4
TOTAL                                    n/a       n/a       n/a      n/a     422.1    845.5
1.     The table indicates n/a where information is not available from the Bank's MIS.
2.     Completion Actuals are final estimates
3.     Approximately $70,000 and 35 s/w of supervision inputs were attributable to additional actions taken by
the Bank relating to the Credit suspensions over the STOWAD scheme in Madurai.
4.     Approximately $130,000 and 70 s/w of supervision inputs were attributable to supervision during the two
extensions of the Credit closing date the tasks associated with project restructuring during this period.



- 41 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                  Specialized     Implemen-    Develop-
Stage of      Month/    of        Days in       StaffSkills       tation        ment         Types of
Project Cycle    Year    Persons    Field         Represented       Status      Objectives     Problems
Through Appraisal   Nov-85    2           14         EC, ME                -            -
Oct-86     3          15         EC, FA, Trans         -            -
Feb-87     6          18         EC(2), SE, FA,        -            -
Trans, Plan
Jul-87     4          14         EC, SE, ME, FA        _            -
Appraisal through    Oct-87    5         21          EC, ME, Trans,        -             -
Board Approval                                       FA, Plan
Supervision        Jul-88     2           14        EC, FA                 I
Aug-88    1           3          Trans                                        Land acquisition problems in
road projects.
Apr-89     5          6          EC, Trans, FA,         I            I        SIP: Component is in seriously
Plan, ME                                     difficulties.
MUDF: Initial sanctioning of
loans has taken more time than
expected. Consultants'
preparation of financial and
operating plans need
strengthening.
Aug-89    5           10         EC, Plan, FA,          I            I        MUDF: Initial sanctioning of
Trans, ME                                    loans has taken more time than
expected.
Mar-90     1          4          FA
Jul-90     4          21         EC, FA, Plan, SA       I            I        MUDF: Problems in appraising
municipal FOP and Fund
management and allocations.
BUS: Some of operating targets
are not satisfied.
Nov-90    6           12         EC, Trans(2),         2             2        GUD: Nothing implemented.
FA, ME, SA                                   MUDF: inadequate fund
allocation. Problems in
appraisal causing low quality
and quantity of loans.
BUS: Worsening operating
status.
TRAMP: Delay in procurement
procedures.



- 42 -
Apr-91    4          9          EC, Trans, FA,        2             2        MUDF: Inadequate fund
ME                                          allocation.
BUS: No fare revision and
negative cash flow.
Deviations from the covenants
in SIP, GUD and BUS.
Sep-91    3          11         EC, FA, Trans         2             2
Jan-92    4           17        EC, SE, Trans(2)      2             2        GUD: Nothing implemented.
MUDF: Deviation from Fund
basic objectives.
TRAMP: Delays in studies and
scheme preparation.
Some deviations from
Covenants.
Aug-92    3          8          EC, SE, Trans         2             2
Mar-93    3          9          EC, MF, Trans         2             I        TRAMP: Delays in studies and
scheme preparation.
Dec-93    3          7          EC, ME, Trans         2
Jun-94    4          14         EC, FA, ME,           S             S
Trans
Sep-94    4          19         EC, FA, ME,           S             S        TRAMP: Procurement
Trans                                       problems.
Jan-95    7          20         EC(2), FA,            U             S        GUD: No implementation. No
R&R(2), ME,                                 interest of private sector.
Env                                         TRAMP: Weak
implementation capacity.
STOWAD: Suspended
Jul- 95   2           13        EC, Env               U             S        GUD: No progress. No interest
of private sector.
TRAMP: Weak capacity
Nov-95    2          3          EC, Env               S             S        MUDF: Commercialization
issues under review.
Mar-96    3          4          EC, L, Bank           S             S
May-96    3          7          EC. L, Bank           S             S        Project Restructuring
Nov-96    4          7          FA, Env(2),           S             S
R&R
Feb-97     1          13                              S             S        Closing soon. Promote
FA                                          disbursement.
July-97    1          I I                             S             S        Credit Status
I_FA
Completion         Sep-97     6          14         EC, FA, Plan,         _      _
Bank, Env, ME
L-                                                -            -=



- 43 -
Key to Specialized staff skills: EC - Economist; FA - Financial Analyst; Plan - Urban Planner; ME - Municipal
Engineer; SE - Sanitary Engineer; L - Lawyer; SA - Systems Analyst; Env - Environmental Specialist; R&R -
Relocation and Rehabilitation Specialist; Bank - Banking Specialist
Note: A pre-Identification mission, involving EC and ME, took place in Jul-85 in conjunction with a supervision
mission for the Second Madras Urban Development Project. The Completion mission for TNUDP in Sep-97 was
also a pre-Identification mission for TNUDP-II.



APPENDIX A
The World Bank
INDIA: T.AMIIL NADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (TNUDP)
(Cr.1923-IN)
Completion iMission
and
Discussions of a Possible Follow-On Urban Development Operation In Tamil Nadu
(9/15-30, 1997)
AIDE-NIMIIOIRE
I.    Backgyround
1.    The mission. A World Bank mission visited Tamil Nadu between September 15 and 30, 1997.
The mission members were: Messrs. / Mime. Hiroaki Suzuki (Task Manager and mission leader);
Michael Whitbread (consultant, responsible for drafting the project Implementation Completion Report
(ICR)); Kim Cuenco (Urban Planner); Illangovan (Environmental Engineer); Michael Wills (consultant,
Financial Analyst); and. Ed McBean (consultant. Municipal Engineer). This was the final TNUDP
mission as the Credit closed on September 30, 1997. The mission objectives were: (a) to initiate the
preparation of the ICR; and (b) to hold discussions on a possible follow-on urban development
operation in Tamil Nadu. including continuing support to the Tamil Nadu Urban Development Fund
(TINUDF) which was established under the TNUDP.
2.   iMvission tasks. To achieve these objectives, the mission held discussions with officials (ANNEX
I provides a list of key persons met), collected data for analysis and evaluation from GOTN, the project
executing agencies and the municipalities (ANNEX 2 lists the key documents), and undertook field
visits to 39 sub-projects and schemes in the towns of Chennai (Madras), Madurai, Palani, Coimbatore,
Tirrupur and Erode (ANNEX 3 lists the sites visited bv the mission). The issues arising from the
mission's field visits and associated discussions are shown in ANNEX 4. All mission members wish to
record their appreciation for the courtesy extended to them and for the assistance and cooperation of all
the agencies and individuals concerned. The findinigs and conclusions of the mission were discussed at a
State-level wrap-up meeting in Chennai on September 30, 1997 and at the final wrap-up meeting in
Delhi on October 7 in Delhi with GOI (DEA of the iMinistry of Finance, the Ministrv of Urban Affairs
and Employment), GOTN, TINUIFS and the participating financial institutions (FIs). The following
summarizes the findings and conclusions of the mission. Part A and Part B are related to "the closing of
TYNUDP', and "the NINUDF and a Possible Follow-On Urban Development Operation in Tamil Nadu."



- 2-
Part A: Closing of TNUDP
II.    Summarv Status of TNUDP at Credit Closing
3.    Phvsical status. The mission judged the achievement of the physical target of the project to
have been adequate, though some of the sub-projects have problems in their design and construction
quality. Civil works, purchases of equipment and execution of technical assistance, training and studies
approved by the Bank were all completed, with the following two exceptions: (a) 13 road and bridge
schemnes which are the responsibility of the Department of Roads and Rural Works (DHRW) under the
Transport and Traffic Management Program (TRAMP) component remained unfinished with a spillover
value of Rs 411 million (US$11 .5 million); and, (b) some minor works in four sites and services
schemes under the Land Service Program (LAND) component, which are the responsibility of the TN
Housing Board (TNHB). The TRAMP schemes will be completed with State Government funds, and
sites and services will be completed with TNHB funds. Compared with the appraised project, physical
targets were achieved or exceeded for: sites and services under LAND; equipment and civil works under
Pallavan Transport Corporation (PTC/bus company in Madras); bridges and highways under TRAMP;
municipal projects under the Municipal Urban Development Fund (MlJDF); and, TA and training under
TA., Training and Equipment (TATE). Physical achievement fell short of the appraisal targets for: slum
improvement on public lands under the Slum Improvement Program (SIP) by about 20%; the program
for improvements to private slums under Land Sharing/Realignment (LASER), where there were only 2
small schemes implemented; and, guided urban development (GUD) under LAND, which was canceled.
LASER and GUD were small and somewhat experimental components of the appraised project.
4.    Financial status. The Board-approved Credit amount was SDR 216.5 rnillion, and SDR 22.0
million and SDR 10.8 million were canceled by the Bank following an extended period of Rupee
depreciation in 1992 and 1994 respectively, leaving a Credit amount of SDR 183.7 million. It is
anticipated that by the time of final withdrawal application, the utilization will be 100% of this Credit.
Covenant compliance. Except the audit of the Special Account which is the responsibility of
GO1 all standard project conditions in relation to project accounts, audits, procurement procedures etc.
were in compliance at closing. In addition to standard conditions, there were some 82 items in the
project's agreed Operational Action Plan (OAP) at appraisal covering procedures and policy, the
"substantial implementation" of which was a project-specific covenant. Three C)AP items were not in
compliance at closing. Accordingly, the mission concluded that the Borrower was in compliance.
6.    Suspensions of disbursements. The mission's field visit included inspection of Madurai's
storm water drainage (STOWAD). The manner of implementation of the STOWAD master plan had
created problems in 1994 that had led to two suspensions of disbursements by the Bank over issues of
project record keeping and R&R -- both suspensions were lifted following Bank inquiries. The mission
was satisfied that: (a) the STOWAD scheme at Madurai had been properly executed and was working
well; (b) there had been no re-encroachment onto the drainage margins since conmpletion of the scheme;
and (c) the R&R issues were resolved according to Bank guidelines.
7.    Highlights of project restructuring - transformation of MUDF into TNUDF. The project
was extended twice from the original closing date of September 30, 1995. The extensions were for a
period of one year each. They enabled restructuring to take place in order to transform the project's



- 3-
successful Nlunicipal Urban Development Fund (MJUDF) into a legally independent financial
inte-..ediarv with private sector participation. The process of creating the intermediary. Tamil Nadu
Urban Development Fund (TNUDF), has been successfully completed and TNUDF is now poised for
considerable irther development and expansion of its urban infrastructure lending activities (see Part B
of this aide-memoire).
III.  Implementation Performance of TNUDP
8.    Views of the Mission. This project was complex and far-reaching and contained many
innovations. There was always a possibility of failure in some areas which would need to be weighed
against project successes in the final assessment. The main "'failures" were: no GUD schemes were
executed under LAND; inadequate coverage of slum improvement on private lands under LASER; an
absence of any real improvement in road scheme appraisal capability at DHRW under TRAMP and
excessive delays in planning and procurement: slow occupation of sites and services schemes under
LAND (althouah the sales of plots greatly exceeded expectations); bus fare revisions by GOTN were too
infrequent and procedures inadequate; and, often poor attention by the Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) to
the maintenance of slum improvement and sites and services schemes. However, the "successes" were
many: physical targets were exceeded for four out of five major components; poverty alleviation
objecrives were significantly achieved; there have been important environmental improvements; many
urban policy reforns were introduced by the project which complement those arising from the 74th.
Constitutional Amendment; most agencies have experienced a cultural change leading to significant and
sustained improvements in their approaches to planning and execution; and, the project has created an
institution in the transition of the MUjDF to the TNUDF for increasing and sustaining the flow of capital
to ULBs and urban infrastructure generally in the State. These are major advances in urban development
policy and practice, and the mission's overall assessment is that the project was successful in achieving
its obiectives despite some shortcomings.
9.    Views of the Borrower. The Project Management Group (PMG) and GOTN are preparing the
Borrower's evaluation of the project for inclusion as an Appendix to the ICR. This will be forwarded to
the Bank in November 1997. Provisionally, the Borrower indicated to the mission that GOTN was very
satisfied with the progress and implementation of TNUDP, particularly the restructuring of the TNUDP
including the establishment of the TN`JDF and that their evaluation was likely to record a favorable
outcome. Given the important roles of the FIs in the TNLTDF, DEA requested them to submit to
GOL'GOTN and the Bank their own evaluation of the TNIJDF.
IV.   Reallocation Between the Categories of the Proceeds of the Credit
10.   The Project Management Group (PMG) and the mission reviewed the status of the eligible
expenditures incurred under the TNTDP before the Credit closing. The final category allocation of the
proceeds of the Credit is shown in ANNEX 5. The Bank has undertaken the reallocation between the
categories of the proceeds of the Credit. based on this review.
V.    Operational Plan and Sustainability of TNUDP
11.   All of the facilities provided under the project have become, or will become in the case of
unfinished works, assets of the relevant agencies -- principally the municipalities. Accordingly, there is



-4 -
no formal operational plan for the project as the assets will be operated and maintained as part of the
municipalities routine oblications. Sustainabilitv depends largely on the levels of maintenance and the
operating procedures of the municipalities, which in turn depends upon their finances and organization.
With the improvements brought about under the 74th Constitutional Amendment. the mission is of the
opinion that there are good prospects for the sustainability of these assets. However, considerable
reform of local govermment is required to achieve this outcome, which would be facilitated by a follow-
on project as discussed below in Part B.
VI.   Follow-up Actions in the Post-closure Period
12.   Borrower Obligations. The mission reminded the Borrower of project obligations which still
remain in the post-Closure period, including those entered into under the DCA and the PA. These are:
(a)   GOI will submit to IDA an audit report of the Special Account of FY96/97;
(b)   all withdrawal applications should be submitted to the Bank for eligible expenditures
incurred up to September 30, 1997 by January 31, 1998;
(c)   audits of SOEs. for the fiscal year 1996/97 should be submitted in accordance with the
audit covenant by December 31, 1997 and those in the fiscal year 1997/98 should be submitted
by December 31, 1998;
(d)   audits of the TNUDF and TNUIFS, for the fiscal year 1996/97 should be submitted as
soon as possible, in accordance with II- 2-(c) of the Amendment of Devrelopment Credit
Agreement and Project Agreement;
(e)   GOTIN will replenish the Grant Fund in accordance with the provision set forth in the
Grant Fund Guidelines 7, in accordance with II- 3-(b) of the Amendment of Development Credit
Agreement and Project Agreement;
(f)   semiannual reports on the progress of the TINUDF covering the period of April I-
September 30, 1997 should be submitted by the end of November 1997 (the progress report of
the TINUDF should also cover the preparation and transitional activities for the establishment of
the TINUDF from October 1996 and March 1997), in accordance with II.-2-(c) and II- 3-(c) of the
Amendment of Development Credit Agreement and Project Agreement;
(g)   GOTN will continue to assist with the preparation of the ICR as reasonably requested to
do so by the Bank and, additionally, should prepare its own Evaluation of the project for
inclusion in the ICR which should be submitted to the Bank as soon as possible, but in any event
no later than December 31, 1997; and
(h)   in accordance with the Agreements, the Borrower is obliged to comply with covenants, as
appropriate, during the period of the Credit.
13.   Program for ICR Preparation. The Bank will prepare a draft of the ICR and will forward it to
GOTN for comments by December 31, 1997. Following any comments received, the Bank will proceed



-5-
to finalize the ICR and submit it to the Senior Management of the Bank for onward transmission to the
Bank's Board. According to this timetable, the ICR should be received by the Board during February or
March 1998.



- 6-
Part B. Possible Follow-On Urban Development Operation in Tamil Nadu
VII. Project Restructuring - TNUDF/GF/TNUIFS
14.   Background. The project restructuring of TNUDP was negotiated in Juiv 1996 and approved by
the Board of IDA in October 1996. The legal documents were amended in Decermber 1996 and became
effective in March 1997. The major objectives of the project restructuring were tO convert the project's
successful Municipal Urban Development Fund (MUDF) into an autonomous financial intermediary, the
Tamil Nadu Urban Development Fund (TNUDF)/Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Financial Service
Ltd (TNUIFS) with the participation of private capital and management for financinz urban
infrastructure projects; to set up a new Grant Fund (GF) to encourage urban infrastructure investments
targeted to the urban poor; and to finance TA and resettlement and rehabilitation costs.
15.   Progress. In November 1996, the Tamil Nadu Urban Development Fund (TNUDF) was
established as a trust under the Indian Trusts Act 1882 with participation of GOTN (MUDF net worth as
its contribution, Rs.1.2 billion -US$34 miillion. 70%), ICICI, HDFC and IL&FS (FIs' contribution
Rs.510 million-US515 million. 30%). TNUDF is manazed by the Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure
Financial Services Ltd (TNUIFS). majority-owned bv ICICI, HDFC and IL&FS ("lTlN)F means
collectivelv T`NUDF/TNUIFS in this aide-memoire). The major objectives of TNUDF are to: (i) finance
urban infrastructure projects which improve the living standards of the urbar. population; (ii) facilitate
private sector participation in urban infrastructure financing and operation, through co-financing, joint
ventures and public-private partnerships; and, (iii) operate a complementary windcw of the Grant Fund
(GF), to assist in addressing the problems of the urban poor. After the completion of the legal procedures
and the transfer of the MUDF's assets and liabilities, the TNTUDF started its lending operations in March
1997. GF was established in September 1996 and obtained GOTN's first contribution in April 1997.
16.   Evaluation of Performance.
Lending Activities of TNTJDF: Since its incorporation in iNovember 1996, TNUDF has appraised
projects costing Rs. 1,973 million (US$56 million) and approved loans of Rs. 1,520 millior (US$ 43
million) to 4 Corporations and 19 municipalities. This performance is significant when it is compared
with the performance of the MUDF which had approved about Rs 2,080 million over 8 years. During the
same period, TNUDF disbursed Rs. 226 million (USS 6.4 million) compared to the allocated IDA credit
balance of Rs.600 million (US$17 million). The major reasons for the lower disbursed amournt are: (i)
the transfer of the assets and liabilities of the MUDF to the TNUDF had taken much longer than planned
at the time of restructuring, due to several accounting issues (shift from cash-based to accrual-based
accounting system, income recognition and loan provision for the MUDF loans, etc); (ii) IDA approval
for the two large sub-loans were not given or delayed (IDA did not approve the sub-loan for PTC bus
company before the credit closing date due to the delay in bus fare revision and other financial reasons.
IDA delayed its approval of the sub-loan for the Madurai Toll Ring Road project for clarification of the
status of the land acquisition); and (iii) the TNUDF respected the preference of borrowers to stagger loan
drawdowns to minimize interest costs. The net interest eaming for the 6 months to March 31, 1997
declined bv 35% (from Rs. 78 million to Rs. 51 million) compared to the previous 6) months due largely
to declining interest rates for term deposits. The projects financed varied from storrm-water drains, solid
waste management to commercial complexes. TINUDF has built up the project pipeline of Rs. 4,500



-7-
million (USS 13 0 million). The detailed assessment of the financial performance of TNUDF is provided
in the Section 3 ofANNEX 6.
Lendina Oualitv: In consultation with the Bank. the TINUDF has adopted lending policies and
procedures and established a svstematic loan processing procedures, including the Environrnental and
Social Report (ESR) addressing the environmental and social issues of sub-projects. The TNUDF is'
following these lending policies, procedures and environrnental and social recuirements.
Impact of Non-LendinQ Activities: In addition to its lending activities, the TNUDF has had a positive
impact on the urban infrastructure financing and the capacity building of the municipalities. The
mission's field visit revealed that the TNUDF's clients highly appreciate its stream-lined decision-
ma-king and its advisorv services in developing projects, in particular for, new tvpes of urban projects
such as BOOT operations. The TNUDF assisted Madurai Corporation in developing the first toll road
project in Tamil Nadu. It also helped Karur Municipalitv develop the first BOOT scheme for a toll
bridge project in Tamil Nadu. TNUDF has also assisted the Tamil Nadu Institute of Urban Studies in
developing and implementing a training program for the municipalities which was financed by the Grant
Fund. The TNUDF is also helping the municipalities in improving their accounting systems together
with the provision of computer equipment and software financed under the Grant Fund.
Relationships with the Government: TNUDF provides a unique framework where the Government and
the private sector collaborate in urban sector development. This arrangement is beneficial for both the
Government and the private sector. For the Government, TNUDF is a window for the private capital
inflow and the technical transfer of expertise on infrastructure financing and management. For the
private sector, the Government's support to create an enabling regulatory environment for urban
financing and investment is indispensable for private participation in relatively new areas of municipal
financing and urban infrastructure investment. This unique public and private partnership has led to the
creation of improved regulatory framework for the urban financing. For example, during the preparation
of the MNadurai Toll Road Project, TNUDF realized that the existing regulations did not allow the
municipalities to enter into BOOT arrangements with private investors and requested the GOTN to
amend the regulations. GOTN swiftly took action. Lending decisions are made following a transparent
lending policy and procedures including specific economic, financial and technical criteria and based on
the recommendations made by TNUIFS.
Relationships with the Financial Institutions: The above-mentioned high performance of TNUDF would
not have been possible without the strong support of ICICI, HDFC and IL&FS. From the beginning, the
intention of the TNUDF was to bring into the TNUJDF not only private capital but also the efficiency
and professional expertise of the private financial institutions. ICICI, HDFC and IL&FS, which are
considered to be amongst the best financial institutions in India, contribute to the institutional
development of TNIJDF in their areas of comparative advantage. ICICI, with ample experience of term
lending and human resources has directly supported the TNUDF's operations by seconding the
operational Vice President, the Operational Manager and two accounting professionals. IL&FS,
considered as a front-runner of private infrastructure financing in India is providing support in
developing innovative BOOT operations which are new in urban infrastructure financing, particularly at
the municipal level. Although these financial institutions are market leaders in their respective fields,
none of them have adequate experience in municipal financing. In exchange for their contribution, these
financial institutions are gaining valuable experience in municipal financing thorough the TNUDF. It is



-8 -
expected that these institutions would develop urban financing operations in other states in India,
buildingi on the experience of the TNUDF.
Sta':s of NMarch 3 1. 1997 Audit: l`NUIFS informed :1n mission "ha, the financial statements of March
31. 1997 were cleared bv the auditor of the TNUDF on October 6, one week after its statutorv
recuirement. This delav was mainly caused by: (i) the complication arising from the conversion of the
cash basis accounting system of MUDF to the accrual basis accounting method of the TNUDF; (ii)the
problem of income recognition of the previous period (`UDF); and (iii) difficulty of the determination
of loan provisions in the absence of confirmation of GOTN's guarantee on the past portfolio of MLUDF,
transferred to TNUDF. During the mission's visit in Tamil Nadu. GOTN reconfirmed its guarantee on
the NfUDF's past portfolio and took action to meet the auditor's requirement to determine the provision
for bad loans. The TNUDF will submit to the Bank the audited financial statements of March 31, 1997,
once the Board of Trustees of the T1NUDF approves it.
Challenges for the Future:
(i) Financial Management and Accounting Administration. Compared to its high performLance in
lendina and non-lending advisory services, the TNUDF needs further improvernent of its own financial
management and accounting administration. The T.NTJDF has not yet established an adequate financial
management information system. mrie current system does not provide the management with timely
enough financial information required for more efficient fund management. The TNUDF management
and its shareholders, FIs, fully recognize this weakness and have taken action. A Financial Vice
President cum Corporate Secretary who is CPA and a Manager of Accounting will join the TNTJDF
shortly. The required expertise and technology are standard and not complicated in this area. The
mission requested the FIs to extend their support to the TNUDF in developing the financial management
system. The mission's observation on the accounting staff, financial information system and audit issues
of the TNUDF are stated in Section 1 and 2 of ANNEX 6.
(ii) Project Development and Appraisal Capacity. TNUDF has adequate project development and
appraisal capacitv to deal with relatively small traditional municipal projects which had been financed
under the MUDF. However, these capacities would need to be strengthened as the TJNUDF starts to
finance more complicated medium-sized urban projects such as solid waste management, sanitation, toll
roads, toll bridges and sewerage. These projects would require expertise on the regulatory and
institutional framework as well as technical aspects. The mission recommends 1NUDF enter into an
arrangement with a respected engineering firm to make their sector experts available on a retainer basis.
Grant Fund: The Grant Fund (GF) was established: (i) to finance the projects which benefit low income
populations in conjunction with the TNNUDF loan financing; (ii) to assist municipalities in developing
projects, particularly new approaches such as BOOT; (iii) resettlement and rehabilitation costs; and (iv)
technical assistance for improving the financial, administrative and managerial capacities of the
municipalities. GF was established in September 1996 and becarne operational in April 1997 when
GOTN- made its first contribution of Rsl56 million (USS 4.5 million). GF is managed by the TNJIFS in
accordance with the Grant Fund Management Contract with CaOTN. GF disbursed Rs. 100 million (US$
2.9 million) from April 1 to August 31, 1997. It has financed: (i) urban projects whose major
beneficiaries are urban poor: (ii) project preparation costs; and (iii) technical assistance and training of
municipalities. Regarding the financing of the project which benefits the economically weak urban
population. density of the low income population in the project target areas is used to decide the



-9 -
allocation of the Grant Fund (the larger low income population in the project. the larger grant support to
the project). In any project, the grant support is limited to 3O% of the total project costs. The incentive
provided by the Grant Fund has induced the municipalities to invest in urban infrastructure in low
incorne areas, thus contributing to the objective of the povertv alleviation of the TNLDP. At the time of
the TNTUDP project restructuring, it has been agreed that GOTN will replenish the GF bv transferring its
return on TNUDF. Other possible sources for GF replenishment are the IDA reimbursement of GF
expenditures to date (Rs. 100 million) and financial assistance of other developing aid agencies (in the
form of either grant or concessional loans). In addition, the mission recommends that GOTN consider
recovering of the project preparation costs financed bv GF by capitalizing it in the loan principal when
the project materializes and the loan is approved. Both GOTN, TNUDF and municipalities share the
view that GF has given to the municipalities the incentive to invest more in the areas where low-income
population are living. Given this important and unique roles of GF in the poverty alleviation, the mission
suggested that GOTN commission an expert team to conduct a detailed assessment of GF's influence on
the investment pattern of the municipalities and its impact on the poverty alleviation. This assessment
should also shed light on the question of the sustainability of the GF. This report could be used as
briefing document when GOTN seeks the financial support of other donors. The separation of subsidy
of GF and loan financing on commercial basis through the TNUDF (loans and grants were mixed in the
MlUDF) was a major achievement of the TINUDP restructuring without which the participation of the
private financial institutions in the TNLUDF was impossible. The mission's observation of the Grant
Fund activities is provided in section 4 of ANNEX 6.
C0nc'usion: The project restructuring of TNUJDP involving the creation of TNUDF, TNUIFS and GF
has demonstrated its initial success and is achieving more than the initial expectation, in particular the
project identification and appraisal and non-lending advisorY services. One year is certainly an
insufnicient period to fully accomplish the objectives of the project restructuring and to assess its long-
term impact; however, the mission realized that the TNUDF has enormous potential and is fully poised
for considerable further development and expansion of its urban infrastructure lending activities. In
India. beside the TINUDF, there are only two financial institutions, Housing Urban Development Finance
Corporation (HUDCO) and IL&FS which are financing urban infrastructure investments. HUDCO,
100% GOI owned financial institution is the largest player in the urban infrastructure financing.
However, the access to HUDCO's financing is limited as it requires the guarantee of the State
Governments. As the repayment of HUDCO's loans are guaranteed by the State Governments, the
quality of HUDCO's projects and the performance of its clients are often questioned. IL&FS which
focuses on relatively large scale private urban infrastructure projects has no experience in municipal
financing. In this sense. the TNUDF is the first financial institution with private management and
capital participation which specializes in financing the municipalities' urban infrastructure inyvstments
without Government's guarantee. The discussions with private financial institutions (ICICI, HDFC,
IL&FS, and other commercial Banks) revealed that none of them is ready to start the urban lending on a
large scale, although all of them conceived the urban sector lending as potential market niche. The
TNIJDF is making impressive progress in this relatively new market. The initial success of
TNTUDF/TiNUIFS and GF can also be demonstrated by the strong interest in these schemes indicated by
other multilateral and bilateral development financial institutions. This initial success would not have
been possible without the strong commitments of both GOI, GOTN and ICICI, HDFC and IL&FS and
most importantly the dedicated efforts of the management and staff of TNUIFS. The real challenge
ahead is to raise resources from the capital market to finance urban infrastructure. This objective cannot
be achieved overnight and its success and is also dependent on the overall development of the capital



- 10-
market. However, continuous strong financial, managerial, and technical performance as well as
improved performances of the municipal sector are prerequisites for anv financial interrmediary to reach
this goal and there are no shortcuts.
VIII. Urban Sector Reforms
17.   In addition to the demonstrated initial success of the TNUDF, the mission recognized that
GOTN has made substantial progress in developing and implementing credible urban sector reforrns in
line with the 74 th Constitutional Amendment. Basically the ongoing urban sector reform empowers
urban local bodies (ULBs) in exchange for their accountabilitv for service delivery through financial and
functional devolution. The ongoing reforms concern: (i) the recasting of the legislative framework to
support decentralization and economic liberalization; (ii) improvement of the financial position of the
municipalities through devolution of funds from state to the municipalities. p'ropertv tax reforms and
increase of user charges; and (iii) improvement of urban management. The outline of the reforms
undertaken or being undertaken is summarized in the table of the next page and explained in detail in
ANNEX 7.
1 8.   Financial devolution from the State to ULBs and improvement of the management of ULBs
would improve the environment for the TNUDP operations. The above-mentioned reforrns will
substantially help ULBs improve their financial performance and their creditworthiness. GOTN has
recently taken decision to transfer annually to the municipalities 8% of the State's revenues. This is in
addition to the Central Transfer for the municipalities. In FY 97/98, GOTN has already effectuated the
financial transfer of Rs.2.400 million to ULBs. TNUDF estimates that TNUDFs clients (Corporations
and municipalities) have now Rs 4,000 (US$114 million) annual loan borrowing capacitv over the next
five year. In addition, it is expected that GOTN will pass bills on reforms of the properrY tax and user
charges. which will further enhance the revenue generation of municipalities, thus their credit-
worthiness.



S'T'AT'IJS 01? IMPLEMEIN'I'ATION 01? URtIBAN ItRI0FRMS IN 'AMIIL NAD)U
ISSUES               AClFIONS                                                STATl E                                                          LOCAL
4                   lt8QtJIIII.I).
lcdl for            Im ,,,,plement ti7cThli  Stale Fillaice Commission, rpotrl subnltilicl Oct-96 nllii ajuur leProvisions adopldu    I .ocatl elections iheld uWI Oit-96
enabling legislalion   Conkstlillional        unlider (;.. 109 and I Io) daled  May-9'/
lor diecentrallizalion   (decentiralization)  ITN Urlban Local 13odies (TNULB) Bill presencie  to, anid awaitinig passage in the
anldi ecolnomic      A,neni(linetil           Slate,l.egislalive Assemiibly. Expected to received ilte President's assenit and
liberalizationl passci iiitO law withiin onie year. Auienidline nis on ilie property tax relormis will be
ilnlroduLiced by Janl-98
Enalblinig legislation  Ordlinanice issued 1996 allowing ini principle lJLBs to ellter into l'/P arrangemeuts;  Karur bridige BOOT project under
lor lp)nlic-privale     reduction of slanip) duties from  12% to 0. 1%                                      preparation
(1/P'I) paIItnCerslkips
Wvcak ulbaii andl    Professionalize nibani   TNUJI.B Ilill andcl SFC Report support capacily building; 9111 Pliu provisions io  Begiiiinig of comiputerizationi of ULB
tinanlcial           management               supl)ort capacily buildlinig programs; inicrcasedi delegationi of powers Io ULBs;   fttuclionks witli assistanice tioii lNUDP
m1a1nageliment of                             oricinalioni seminiars for local clected olficials sponsored by tlie Cenitral Fiiialice
In ball local bodies                          Commission; capacity blilding for ULIE  oflicers through imie ITN IJst. of 11Jlbati
Stuidies under TINU)I'; computers supplied to ULBs unidler lTNUDPI; idelilirlcalion
of lrilg nodal agenicy
Strengtlleni municipal    Strengtleninig of basic accouniling practices in ULBs; accig mianiuals ready by
finianicial tnauageu,eni   Dec-97
capacities; proillole
transparency a111n1
aIccolluntability
Improve city            Greater predictability of itilergovt'l transfers & granls faciiitales planning of illfras
miainagemilenil anid liniks   invesitimenits lied to buidgetary l)rovisions
to infrastriucltre
_development___
Liberalize laud         itCA will be deIlinikcl froni properly taxes                                       Coimiibatore revisedi properly tax system
umatkels
Lack of ftundis for    Mobilize resources to   i)illtergovert'l Iralnsfers & gratlis: devolutlilio of fmuids fronil stlitc receipis on a
uilnltn infrrufstucture  fii,aicc rcunilileritlive    lixel formiula fr,o,, '97-'98 & increased shale liolit assigiled revelinues lor O&M.
nccds                and scrvice scihemiCes   Already Ks. 2401 ciores transferred.
ii) augueliltalion of own resources: Stale (15%) andl cenitral (10%) inicentive granits
for improved finianicial pertormance; TNlUJI  Bill inicludles tax relormis (e.g.
propefly taxes); revisioll of lax and no-lax souirces (e.g. tiser charges and licenise
Ices); new lax assiglelicnll doomains; siricier penallies lor mon-paytiienel ol taxes
Itanil user charges; dlisinccilives for leIgilty courtl iligations
iii) privatization of civic services (solid waste collection & disposal, water supply,   MWSSB, Exiioral, Tirrupurt
iv) private sector borrowinigs: UtIIls allowed to burirow tlhrougih debcnitmies &  Coihobatore rated bul noti issucd bonid;
luans front baniks anid F1Is on tlh secur ity of taxes and dJulies; crealion of 'lNUDI'   Clihmenai cuiing ulp for credlit rating
&'rNUIIFSlI; credlit _atiig_lilr tJlBs s_supply, c_c)



- 12 -
IX. Possible Follow-On Urban Sector Operation in Tamil Nadu
19.   Given the above-mentioned initial success of the T`NUDP restructuring. GOT'N has decided to
recuest a new Bank loan of USS200 million for the continuous TNUDF operations. DEA and MUEA
of GOI endorsed GOTN's request and submitted to the Bank an official loan recuest in November 1997.
The mission discussed the above proposal with GOI (DEA and MUEA). GO1N. TNUDF and FIs.
While the GOTN's proposal only focused on the Bank's continuous support to the TNUDF, GOTN and
the mission agreed that the support to the urban sector reforms through the institutional development of
the municipalities should constitute an integral part of the next possible operation. Accordingly, the next
operation would consist of the Institutional Development Component and the Urban Investment
Component through TNUDF.
20.   Institutional Development Component: Financial and functional devolution should be
associated with the accountability of the municipalities. The draft Tamil Nadu Urban Local Bodies Bill
includes the municipalities' obligation to deliver 10 mandatory services. The municipalities, particularly
small ones, do not have sufficient administrative and managerial capacitv at even current levels of
financial and functional responsibilities. Substantial financial and functional devolution represents both
an opportunity and a risk for them. In order for the anticipated urban sector reforms empowering ULBs
to succeed, the financial and functional devolution should be implemented gradually with strong support
to the institutional building of ULBs. Given this, GOTN and the mission agreed to add an institutional
development component to support the GOTN's urban sector reform initiatives in the next operation.
GOTN and the mission agreed that the Tamil Nadu Institute of Urban Studies (TNIUS) should be the
nodal agency of this institutional development component. The mission has held preliminary discussions
with TNIUS on the training part of this component. A further detailed proposal for this component
needs to be developed by the Department of Municipal Administration and Water Supply and TNIUS.
21.   Urban Investment Component (TNiUDF): The ultimate objective of the TJNUDF is to
increase private capital flows to urban infrastructure financing and to maximize investment quality,
utilizing the discipline and expertise of the private sector. The restructuring of the TNUDF has
demonstrated its initial success. The TNUDF has attracted for the first time in India private equity
capital for municipal urban financing. The TNUDF's lending activities are managed by the private
financial service company, TNUIFS. As mentioned above, TINUIFS has substantially improved the
operational efficiency of TNUDF compared to MUDF. The conversion of MlTTDF into TNUDF has been
a significant milestone in bringing in financial discipline and cormmercial behavior in municipal
financing.
22.   The next operation would build on the initial success of TNUTDF and assist TNUDF in evolving
as a full-fledged viable financial intermediary specialized in municipal financing, which could generate
resources from the capital market on its own. In this context. the Bank's continuous support to TNUDF
should play catalvtic role to assist this evolution, rather than simply replenish the fund. It is important
that the Bank loan should not be seen as the only source of the fund. Because, such perception would not
only retard the above-mentioned TNUDF's evolution, but also crowd out possible resource mobilization
from the private sector. Larger private resource mobilization for the TNUDF funding and/or TNUDF-
financed projects would contribute to further improvement of the financial discipline and lending quality
of the TNUDF. In the mission's view, the chance of sustainable success of the TNUDF in long term
would depends on the level of the risk sharing by the private partners in the investments made by the



-13 -
TNUDF. Accordingly, the guiding principle of the Bank's support to the TNUDF in the next operation
would be the risk sharing by the private investors as a step forwards making TNTUDF sustainable on its
own. One possible way to materialize this principle would be for the Bank loan to be routed through
GOT N/T NTDF as well as the three FIs, which mav on their own add resources that they would mobilize
themselves. Increase of unit shares of the private investors in the T1NUDF would be another way to
increase the risk sharing by the private investors. Further work would be required to identify various
options and assess their feasibility.
23.   ULBs' Access to the Capital Market. The next operation would aim at promoting the access of
the ULBs to the capital market in the following ways
Direct Access Through Municipal Bond Issues: It is expected that some municipal
Corporations would be able to raise the funds in the capital market by issuing municipal bonds in
the near future as Ahmedabad Corporation is anticipating. The next operation would provide the
technical assistance for the municipal bond issuance as a part of the Institutional Development
componernt
Issuing Bond of TNUDF Following the Concept of the State Bond Bank in the US: Most
small- and medium-sized municipalities would not be able to access to the capital market directly
by issuing municipality bonds due to the high transaction cost resulting from the lack of
economies of scale. The TNUDF could fill this gap by issuing bonds. TNUDF's roles should be
to identify, appraise and develop a large number of relatively small municipal projects and other
urban infrastructure projects, bundle them and issue the debt instruments against the revenue
streams of these loan assets for the institutional and general investors. Appropriate credit
enhancing mechanisms should be developed such as intercept of the transfer of the State
Government to the municipalities. At least three years of consecutive performance records are
required for the TNNUDF to be rated before undertaking any bond issue. As the current market
does not provide the long-maturity debt fund, some mechanism should be explored to extend the
maturity of TNUDF, including the special facility such as IDFC.
24.   Foreign Exchange Risk Management. In the TNTUDP, IDA credit was onlent to
MUDFI/TNUDF through GOI/GOTN. Direct lending to TNTJDF is preferable, provided that it can
manage the foreign exchange risk. However, this issue should be carefully examined in the light of the
limited hedging instruments available in India and TNUDF's verv limited financing operations (most of
the clients are the municipalities which do not have any foreign currency revenues). The Bank asked the
TiNUTDF to explore this possibility.
X. Next Steps
25.   Based on the discussions with GOI/GOTN/FIs, the mission will prepare a draft Project Concept
Document (PCD) as a way to clearly indicate the basic elements of a possible involvement of the Bank
in the next operation. In the meanwhile, the mission asked: (i) the Department of the Municipal
All the parties understood that the success of the issuance of the municipal bonds and TNUDF's bond depend
on not only the performance of the municipalities and the TNUDF, but also the situation of the capital market
and the macro-economic condition in India



-14-
Administration and Water Supply and TNIUS in consultation with TNUIFS to prepare a detailed
proposal for the institutional development component (project implementation arrangement, sub-
component, modalities-study, traininq, technical assistance-, budget requirement, etc); and (ii) TNTJDF
in consultation with FIs to develop a corporate strategy and associated business plan that would reflect
how it would achieve the basic objectives laid out by the mission.
26.   The following are tentative project preparation schedule and required actions:
End-November 1997:
Nomination of the Chartered Accountant by TNUDF
Preparation of the preliminarv financial statements of the first half year operations (April
1- Sept 31, 1997) by TNUDF.
Design of the Financial Management Information System by TNUDF
End- December 1997:
Preparation of Draft Project Concept Document by the Bank
Preparation of Draft Project Preparation Plan (see Annex 10) bv GOTN/TNUDF and the
Bank
Preparation of Draft TA and Training Program by GOTN/TNEUS in consultation with
TlNUDF
Review of lending polices and procedures and Grant Guidelines bv
GOTN/TNUDF
Development the corporate strategy and associated business plan by TNUDF
Installation of the Financial Management Information System by TNUDF
End Januarv 1997:
Discussions on the Draft Project Concept Document, Project Preparation Plan,
Corporate Strategy and Business Plan of TNLDF, Institutional Development Program
among GOTN, TNUDF, FIs, TIUS and the Bank.
Review of the lending policies and procedures and Grant Guicdelines between
GOTN/TNUDF and the Bank
Initiation of the feasibility studies of solid waste projects.
Completion of the feasibility studies of under-ground sewerage projects.
February 1998:
Finalization of Project Concept Document by Bank-
Finalization of Project Preparation Plan Project Preparation Plan by GOTN, TNUDF,
TIUS and the Bank
March 1998:
Pre-appraisal mission
Complete EA and Resettlement Action Plan (if any) for the projects of the first year
May 1998:
Appraisal



Annex I
Page 1 of 3
List of Kev Persons MIet
GOI
Mr. Rohit Modi. IAS       Deputv Secretarv, DEA
Dr. P. K. Mohanti         Director, NfUAE
GOTN -- Based in Chennai
Mir P.V. Rajaraman, IAS    Secretary, Finance
.Mr A.P. Muthuswami, IAS  Secretarv, Housing and Urban Development
Ms. S. Malathi. IAS       Secretary, Municipal Administration and Water Supply
Mr Ramesh Ram Mishra, IAS NMember Secretary of State Finance Commission
Mr K.A. Mathevv, IAS     Project Director and Secretary, Planning and Development
NMr Sanwat Rarn, IAS      Director Municipal Administration
Mr S. Javaraman          Additional Director Municipal Administration
Metropolitan Transport Corporation (formerly PTC/DATC)
Dr M. Koteeswaran         Managing Director
iMr R. Balasubrarranian  Joint M.D.
Mr R. Senguttuvan        Joint M.D.
Mr M. Balasundaram        Financial Controller
Mvr P. Bhaskar            Deputy Manager
Department of Highwavs and Rural Works (DHfRW)
Mr R. Jayasingh           Chief Engineer (TNUDP)
Mr R. Krishnan            Superintending Engineer
Mr J. Christopher Paul    Deputy Chief Engineer (TNUDP)
Mr N. Santhalingam        Divisional Engineer I Chennai
Mr M. Xavier              Divisional Engineer II Chennai
Mr V. Thulasidharan       Ass Chief Engineer
Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB)
Nfr S. Mariappan          Chief Engineer
Mr A. Kannan              Ass Executive Engineer



Annex 1
Page 2 of 3
Tamil Urban Infrastructure Financial Service Ltd (5N7ITFS'
NMr K. Ra.ivan            Chief Executive Officer
Mr R. Sundararajan        Vice-President
Mlr. Malmurugan           Assisttnt Vice-President
NMr. C. K. Balasubramanium  Assistant Vice-President
Tamil Nadu Institute of Urban Studies
Mr. A. Ganesan            Director
Mr. R. Raghunathan        Deputy Director/Facutly Engineer
Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board
Mr J. Bhuvaneswaran       Chief Engineer
iMr E.G. Subramaniarn     Superintending Engineer (Monitoring)
Mr S. Santhana Krishnan    Ass Executive Engineer (Planning)
Mr C.V. Murali Sekar      Ass Engineer (Schemes)
Mr Y. Edward              Superintending Engineer
Mr P.T. Jacob             Executive Engineer
Project Management Group (PMG)
Mr K.R. Thooyavan         Member, Urban Planning
M%4r R. Sivasubramanian   Deputy Planner
Mr A.V. Narasimhan        Research Officer
Mrs R.B. Huvaneswari      Ass Planner
GOTN Reaional/Divisional Offices and Agencies. Municipalities and Municipal Corporaions,
Mr Kasi Viswanathan, IAS  Collector, Madurai
Mr D. Chandrasekaran      Regional Director of Municipal Administration, Tiruppur
iMr M. Sengottaiyan       Regional Exec Engineer, Office of RDMA, Tiruppur
MIr Sai Kumar, IAS        Municipal Commissioner, Madurai Corporation
NIr Packyaraman           Engineer Madurai Corporation
MNtr .4Arumugarn                Chief Town Planning Officer Madurai Corporation
MIr R. Krishnan           Superintending Engineer, DHRW Coimbatore
Mr A. Srinivasan          Divisional Engineer, DHRW Coimbatore
MNIr N.T. Krishnamurthv   Ass Divisional Engineer, DHRW Coimbatore
vMr R. Natasan            Ass Divisional Engineer, DHRW Coimbatore
Mr Kashim                 Superintending Engineer, TNHB, Trichy Circle
Mr Thangaraj              Executive Engineer, TINB, Trichy Circle



Annex 1
Page 3 of 3
Mr Muthukrishnan         Superintending Engineer, TNSCB, Trichy Circle
Nlr S. Narayanasamy      Municipal Commissioner, Palani
Sri K. SelFaraj          Chairnan, Tiruppur Municiealitv
MLr B. Balachandran      Municipal Commissioner, Tiruppur
Mr D. Durairaj           Municipal Health Officer, Tiruppur
MIr Soundrarajan         Senior Town Planning Officer, Tiruppur
Sri S. Arangarasan       Chairman, Erode Municipality
MNir T. Paulchamy        Municipal Conmmissioner, Erode
Mr V. Subramanian        Municipal Engineer, Erode
Mr Thangavelu            Town Planning Officer, Erode
Mr R. Ragotharnan        Municipal Commnissioner, Alandur Municipalitv
Mr A.S. Raganathan       Municipal Engineer, Alandur
M.r A. VaradharqJan      Town Planning Officer, Alandur
Ms. Lalita Gupte         Deputy Managing Director, ICICI
Mvr. Suneet K. Maheshwari  Sr. Vice President, ICICI
Mr. Shekhar Damle        Vice Presidnet, ICICI
NIr. Sanjeev Tamhane     Asisitanct Vice President, ICICI
MIr. Nasser Munjee       Executive Director, HDFC
Mlr. Conrad D'souza      Chief, Manaaement Servicies, HDFC
Mfr. Hari Sankara        Executive Director, Inflastructure, IL&FS
Mvlr. Arun Saha          Corporate Secretary, IL&FS
-Mr. K. Ramchand         Vice President, IL&FS
Ms. Sangita              IL&FS
OECF
MNr. Yoshitaro Fuwa      Chief Representative
Others
MIr K. Sai Ram           S.B. Billimnora & Co., TNJDF Auditors
NMr S'hivamov Ohose      Additional General Manager, National Projects
Construction Corporation Ltd.
NMr A. Ganesan           Director, TN Instiutute of Urban Studies, Coimbatore
Nir V. Manickam          M.D., V. Manickam Engineers (P) Ltd.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 1
List of Documents Received and Reviewed by the Mission
Author                                       Title/Date
TDNLDF         Review of Status of Projects as on 31 -Aug- 1997
T;NJDF         Abstract of Sectorwise Status of Projects as on 31 -Aug-1997
TNTJDF         Abstract of Grant Proposals as on 31 -Aug- 1997
TINHB          Papers relating to the Status of the S&S schemes as on 3 1 -Aug- 1997
DHRW           Status Report of TNUDP (16-Sep-1997)
DHRW           Statement showing time over-runs for completion
DHRW           Minutes of Meeting with Mission on 16-Sep- 1997
PMG            TNUDP Progress Report up to Mar-1 997
PMfG           Annual Reports (various up to 1996/97)
TNSCB          Year-wise capital expenditure up to 3 I-Mar-1997 and. other data
TNSCB          Annual Accounts for 1993/94, 1994/95, 1995/96
TN-SCB         Physical and Financial Performance
TNSCB          Future Schemes
PMG            Evaluation by Agencies/PMG Componentwise (reports completed by
individual implementing agencies according to PMG format)
PMtG           List of consultancy studies
PN IG          MLTDF - Status of Projects as of Oct-96
PMfG           TNLTDP Progress Report up to Mar-1997
Madurai Corp.  Financial Projections
Madurai Corp.  Inner Ring Road Project Report
Tiruppur Mun.  MUDF Schemes
Erode Mun.    MUDF Schemes
PTC (MTC)    Project Implementation Completion Report (produced by agency)
PTC (MTC)    Statement showing projections at appraisal for 18 performance indicator
against actual performance
PTC            Annual Reports and Accounts for 1994/95 and 1995/96 and Audited Acc
only for 1996/97



Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
List of Sites Visited by the Mission
City           ComponentI                             Scheme
Chennai        TRAMP             Royapuram Overbridge
TRAMP            Inner Ring Road Bridge Across Adyar River
TRAMP            Rail Over Bridge on G.S.T. Road at Guindy
SIP              Pudhu Nagar Slum Improvement, Avadi
SIP              Senthamizh Nagar Slum Improvement, Avadi
SIP              Periyar Nagar Slum Improvement, Avadi
LAND             Ambattur Sites and Services
MUDF             Link Road, S. New St to A-Koil Rd, Alandur
MUDF             Link Road, Balaji Nagar to Vanuvampet, Alandur
'MUDF            Small bridge over Mothiyal Nagar, Alandur
MUJDF            Improvement of Burial Ground, Alundur
Madurai        T RAMP            Vaigai "Causeway"
MUDF             Road improvements (11 sites inspected)
MUDF             Storm water drains (6 channels inspected)
LAND             Anuppanadi Sites and Services
SIP              Keelavaidyanathapuram Slum Improvement
SIP              Karumbalai Slum Improvement
Proposal         Inner Ring Road
Palani         Proposal          Bus Stand
Coimbatore     MUDF              Traffic signals
MUDF             Solid Waste Management vehicles
LAND             Ganapathy Sites and Services
SIP              Arivoli Nagar Slum Improvement
SIP              Venkatapurarn Slum Improvement
IRAMP            Rail Overbridge at Cross Cut Road
TRAMP            Ukkadam Byepass
Tiruppur       MUDF              Bus stand improvements
MUTDF            Pay and Use toilets
MUDF             Road improvements
MUDF             Solid Waste Management vehicles
MUDF             Office complex at Kumaran Road
"Proposal" refers to schemes that might be included in the possible Second Project.



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
MUDF             Shopping complex at Jaivabai Higher Secondary S
Road
Erode          LAND             Nasiyanur Road Sites and Services
TRAMP            Vehicular sub-way at Erode-Kan2eyam Road
MUDF             Market at R.V.K. Road
MUDF             Improvements to Town Bus Stand
MUDF             Burial Ground
MUDF             Street lighting
MUDF             Road construction at Veerabhadra
MUDF             Solid Waste Management vehicles
MUDF             Underground Storm Water Drain



Annex 4
Page 1 of 7
Issues Arising from the Mission's Field Visits and Associated Discussions
The Mvlission visited 39 project sites in different cities which are listed in ANNEX 3.
Additionally, mission members had visited manv other project schemes during the course of
project supervision over several years. The following observations are made about the
implementation. of the project components based on these visits, and the lengthy discussions with
concerned officials.
Procurement Issues Generally
Procurement complied with the requirements of the Bank's guidelines.
Two procedures to invite bids are currently being utilized depending on the size of civil works
projects. Specificallv: (a) for very small projects -- a tender notice is posted on billboards near to
the project and it is expected that interested parties will be aware of upcoming projects and
participate accordinglv; and (b) for large projects -- notices of tender are published in relevant
newspapers.
Submitted tenders usually use three covers, as follows: (a) the first cover which details the cash
bond or insurance; (b) the second cover identifies the qualification material which include
working capital, financial soundness, experience on projects of similar type and size and tools
and plans and manpower available to the project. The focus of the technical committee
reviewing the qualification of submissions is to examine the information and also access any
;blacklisting" information available on historical performance of the parties involved in the
submitted tender; and (c) assuming acceptance as a qualification, the third cover is opened which
is the price bid.
Each cover is opened in succession only if the individual criteria are met at that stage.
The individuals involved in the procurement proceedings involve two groups: (a) the first group
are members of the technical committee and include (typically) a chief engineer, a superintendent
engineer and a chief accountant; (b) the second group consists of technical reviewers who are
technical people available to support the technical committee in the detailed assessment of the
acceptability of the submitted tenders.
This committee setup is able to function effectively but the selection of members for the
technical committee is of paramount importance. A failure of the technical committee to be
aggressive and attentive to details means the system will fail. For example, the technical
committee must specifically require that an individual project or scheme in question, be a part of
an overall plan. Judging from observations obtained during the mission, this has not always
been the case. The technical reviewers need to be very well versed in the subject material.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 7
Cost Overruns
Cost overruns can enter the resolution of projects by several pathwavs. NMany projects are
completed utilizing a unit price submission. In the event that the materials utilized exceed 125
percent of that specified in the contract, overruns are reimbursed to the contractor. A lump sum
contract is a preferred option to avoid tampering. Most projects have a force majeure clause.
Upon occurrence, the contract is terminated and the contractor is paid for work done to the time
of interruption (assuming that a continuation of the project is impossible).
Construction Quality and Construction Supervision Issues
In many projects it was apparent that an appropriate analysis of altematives was not considered.
Selection of a particular design was undertaken (e.g. a high level bridge) without proper
examination of altematives (such as a causeway). It is apparent that the technical committee
charged with the responsibilitv to consider alternatives did not serve their assigned function.
Overdesigrn of projects was readily apparent in, for example, bridge and underpass construction.
As more sophisticated projects are undertaken, particularly in relation to environmental projects,
assurance of technical expertise to ensure a comprehensive and thorough evaluation of the
proposed projects is essential, which means greater use of consultants.
LAND)
The Sites and Services schemes were designed according to agreed criteria established at
appraisal. Execution typically followed the pattem that magor capital works were constructed
first, well ahead of need. For example, medical facilities, schools, fire stations and similar
structures were years ahead of the population and even water towers which were well ahead of
the availabilitv of water. This focus on heavy capital expenditure up-front darnages the financial
viability of schemes and is unnecessary.
The Sites and Services schemes were initially designed with toilet superstructures for each plot.
As occupation of the sites has been very slow, these superstructures have deteriorated and were
obviously providing no benefit. In later schemes they were not provided, only the basic latrine.
Occupation in all these Sites and Services schemes has been very slow despite extremely high
demand in many instances. A glaring example of this is Ambattur. This is the largest sites and
services scheme in Asia. Hardly any of the Phase I and II plots are occupied. TNHB has
recently completed Phase III where there are 1,366 plots, and over 231,000 registered
applications were processed. It was unclear to the mission why occupation is so slow but it has
something to do with the reluctance of households to move to new but desolate areas. The longer
the schemes remain vacant the more desolate they become as vegetation reestablishes itself and
general deterioration occurs of the roads and other infrastructure. In schemes where occupation
is picking up the transformation of the environment is remarkable and it is clear that the schemes
will be successful in the long run. The people taking up residence first tends to be those in the



Annex 4
Page 3 of 7
MIG and HIG categories. A good example of this was Anuppanadi in Madurai which is about
-25% occupied. Additionally this scheme has very mature vegetation following early tree
planting which adds considerably to its appearance.
The LAND projects have been fairlv basic, involving provision of stormwater drainage,
water supply, sanitary sewers, and streetlights. Since the implementation of this
infrastructure is accomplished prior to construction of the-dwellings, the design and
implementation of the services is straightforward. However, successful operation of
sewers requires a frequent flushing action while treatment facilities are designed to
function within specified design conditions, primarily driven by contributing populations.
The absence of the contributing populations may allow major buildup of sediments in the
sewers, causing blockage and a failure of the treatment system to function as designed.
Storm drainage systems must be kept clear through regular maintenance but this is not
occurring and in the absence of occupants, ongoing maintenance (clearing) is an apparent
problem.
Slum Improvement Projects (SIP)
The slum upgrading schemes conform to the same basic physical provision of road and lane
surfacing, drains, water supply and street lights. In a few cases, sites had been left vacant for
children's play areas and other amenities. These schemes seemed to fall into two categories. In
some schemes the general environment had clearlv deteriorated and lack of maintenance was
apparent and there appeared to be no "atmosphere". Others were altogether different, where the
people looked contented, the slum had an air of improvement and there was apparent interest in
the cleanliness and repair of the public facilities as well as the houses. The explanation for the
differences between these two types of slum is difficult to find. It appears that where community
groups have been established and the tenants have taken action themselves to improve their
conditions, success of the scheme is more likely. There appeared to be a strong correlation
between community spirit and elected officials who could persuade individual residents to
contribute to the general well-being.
Generally, it is apparent that the municipalities are taking little interest in the maintenance of the
schemes once they have been handed over to them. Accordingly, the long term sustainability of
the physical worcks depends critically on the actions that the slum dwellers themselves will take
to keep the facilities functioning.
The quantity of private investment into the houses in all the slums has been considerable. Many
pucca houses have been built often with the assistance of house improvement loans under the
project. There is little doubt that transfer of ownership of the land to the occupants (patta) is the
main benefit to the occupants to be derived from these SIP schemes.
The mission noted considerable differences between slums located in the outer areas of cities
compared with the more congested inner city locations. Implementation by TNSCB is greatly
eased in the outer schemes by the availability of land. For example, households are willing to
give up land in order to permit widening and straightening of roads. The plot areas for outer



Annex 4
Page 4 of 7
schemes in many cases exceeded 60 m2 and sometimes a significant number were over 100 m2.
%Vhile the scheme benefits are considerable for these occupants of outer area schemes, the
mission felt that the emphasis of the program of slum upgrading in futw-e should be on the inner
cirv slums where the difficulties of implementation are much greater but where the problems are
-.so much greater.
The extent of the services provided is verv strongly related to the land available. For example,
all slum improvement projects had boreholes for water supply and hand pumps. A few had
water connections directly to households (these were not metered). For those where individual
plots were sufficientlv large, a dug well and septic tanks were also eviden.t. The quantity and
quality of the water in the dug wells were generally insufficient for potable purposes. Minor
maintenance of pumps was lacking in some situations making the pump nonfunctional. The
quality of house construction in the slum improvement projects was highly variable. The roofing
materials employed ranged from straw to clay tile. Residents in some dwellings were obviously
quite well off since motorcycles, television antennae and concrete privacy walls were apparent;
in others, the materials were poor quality brick and straw roofs.
The availability of communal water supplies and communal latrines was important since, for
those dwellings with small plots, individual sewage facilities were not present. Lack of routine
maintenance was sometimes apparent.
TRAMIP
DHRW were the executing agency for major bridges and roads. The mission visited a number of
sites and some, such as Royapuram Rail Overbridge, were still under construction. In all cases
the completed schemes were working well and the flows of vehicular traffic were smooth.
However, clear evidence existed that the many of the highway facilities are overdesigned. The
evidence included construction of enormous bridge abutments, stretching over substantial
distances. Other indications of overdesign include excessively long barrier walls, use of large
volumes of fill which must be transported over sizable distances, and deep excavations for
underpasses. Further problems with highway schemes included approach roads that are
inadequate-(e.g. at Madurai). In one case, there was construction of an excessively deep
vehicular underpass in Erode, where an adjacent underpass existed of adequate depth for the
traffic. A complex bicycle tunnel system was incorporated in the Rail Overbridge at Cross Cut
Road in Madurai which most cyclists avoided using, when possible. -A bridge was constructed in
Mfadurai to improve access to a burial ground across the Vaigai River which was not extensively
used. and the original idea of a causeway might have been adequate.
Numerous road segments were visited as part of the mission. These road segments were short
and not obviously part of an overall plan which would make an important contribution to traffic
parterns. The mission was of the opinion that the roads have been constructeld in particular
locations because the land is owned by the government (e.g. as part of a tank) but without access
to the intervening land, the segment of road contributes little. Some roads are in good shape.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 7
Those roads in bette. shape appear to have performned well due to superior preparation of the
subgrade.
.NIUDF
This component has financed an extremely wide rance of schemes. spanning bicycle stands,
marriage halls, clrains, burial grounds and much else besides. The schemes are either service or
remunerative. T he mission was most impressed bv the service schemes which seemed to be
focussed on local needs, and provide real benefits to the people. These service schemes were
mostlv very small in nature in relation to the problems and it is evident that the expenditure
needs of the municipalities are enormous. The MlljUDF has made a real, positive contribution to
initiating the process of improvement of the towns and it is to be hoped that it will continue to
expand.
However, the mission's site visits included one very substantial service scheme involving stormn
water drainage in Erode. The justification for the scheme, which consisted of an underground
drain of well over 1 km. in length, often at a depth of about 40 feet in hard rock cutting, was not
immediately available but the mission felt that inadequate attention had been given to the
consideration of alternatives to this extremely costly design. In several other cases of larger
schemes such as new roads and bridges there appears to be the same tendency to over-design, as
was encountered with the DHRW schemes in the TRANMP component.
MUTDF remunerative schemes were found to be mostlv unimaginative in design. Shops and
offices were provided without any attempt to improve the public spaces such as road surfaces and
margins in the nearby vicinity. The mission was also of the opinion that the municipalities had
not maximized the commercial value of the sites in the layout designs. There seems to be a good
case for some joint activity between the public sector. which would concentrate on public
services and facilities, and the private sector which mnight be better at optimizing the commercial
values.
Some unimproved bus stands visited during the mission were chaotic. The potential for
improvements in these facilities is considerable (e.g. Palani). Inadequate bus parking space
resulted in -informal parking and excessive delays for entry and exit of buses. Investrnent in
additional space and reconfiguring of the existing space will have very substantial returns
although some improvements in adjacent shopping layouts would improve the overall plan.
Alternatively for others, it seems not verv efficient designs are being-developed (e.g. Tiruppur)
and the plan was going to incorporate substantial new areas. A possible superior procedure
would be to let the private sector undertake the design including the adjacent commercial
complex while the municipality retains ownership.
Financial charges on the buses utilizing the bus stands are to be increased from Rs 1.5 to Rs 4 per
bus, which is still far too low.
Improvements at the burial grounds represented small expenditures while creating pleasant
surroundings and functional facilities.



Annex 4
Page 6 of 7
Madurai STOWAD
Tne mission visited 6 major channels in the Madurai Storm Water Scheme. Impiementation of
the scheme in 1993/94 was undertaken contrary to Bank procedures for R&:R and procurement
which resulted in suspension of disbursements in November 1994. Suspensions were lifted only
after the Bank was satisfied with the implementation of the R&R action pian, and keeping of
Project records.
The mission found that the STOWAD scheme had been well executed and appeared to be
functioning properly. In a few isolated places the retaining walls had been breached and solid
waste material was being dumped into the channels. However, these breaches were not serious
and would not cause failure of the channel. The mission encountered no encroachment onto the
margins of the drains subsequent to the completion of the schemes. The Municipal Corporation
informed the rnission that most of the encroachers displaced at that time had eventuaily been
traced and that the compensation owing to them had been provided.
Unfinished Works
Some projects such as the bridge and interchange over the railway at G.S.T. Road at Guindy in
Chennai are still under construction. There was a lack of vision as to how the traffic adjustments
would be handled during the construction. Much of the construction at the interchange arose due
to the need for additional clearance for the railway. Given this, it should be expected that the
railwav contribute to the additional cost of construction, but apparently this is not the case.
Manv of the projects visited during the mission are incremental and thus unfinished in the sense
that until the entire road is built, little segments of road are not beneficial (the Ring Road). The
entire project is needed in order to reap the benefits of lowered traffic congestion. A major
problem is that many of the projects being constructed are on government lands. Lacking access
to the adjacent lands, makes the incremental road improvements piecemeal.
Lessons for the TNUDF operations
Reliance is being placed upon municipalities to identify projects or schemes. The municipality
develops the tender but concerns exist over the tender process and in particular, whether they are
the best projects and represent useful contributions as part of an overall plan. Concern also exists
over the capacity to prioritize between projects.
Small-scale and large-scale categorization of projects may be useful. Conventional, small-scale
municipal developments are envisioned as small office complexes, street lights, road upgrades
and streetlighting. These simple schemes can be executed by municipalities. Large capital
development projects include toll roads, bridges, sanitation services, water supply, sewerage and
sewage treatment plant and solid waste management schemes. The needs for technical review of
the small-scale projects are very different from those needed for these large-scale projects and
outside assistance is certainly required for the large-scale projects.



Annex 4
Page 7 of 7
Technical review of small scale water supply and drainage projects, small commercial
complexes, etc. is straightforward. Reference to a checklist and some general guidelines for
identifying appropriate schemes for funding can be developed. The associated costs of these
services for these types of projects should follow a verv predictable pattern. Review of
submissions should be feasible by non-technical people through comparison with the checklist.
Procurement procedures for these very small projects must be limited to current practices.
Oversight is still needed for construction and reliance for this activity must be placed upon
municipal engineers.
It is noted that the technical design, the preparation of contract documents, and the supervision of
the construction for the large projects, remains a difficult issue. A great deal of resistance will
be exerted by the public sector to retain their role in the current practice. However, for these
large projects, the abilities of the technical review commnittees to undertake a substantial project,
involving consideration of the set of alternatives and having the project or scheme fit into a
larger, overall plan, has not been demonstrated. The composition of the technical commnittee, and
the needs for critical and aggressive input to the selection of projects to be undertaken, is critical.



. 1  :     ..        I    .      l   .       -1:-   - '''   1  :          1      ---- I  --       !9,25-9- 997 
TAMIL NADU URdAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - CRIEDIT IJo.1923 IN
___________~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                      11__I.___   I. _____  II7IZEiI ZZ  ___.__I _ 
TABLE SI OWING TIE REFiEVISED CREDIT ALLOCATION (CATEGORYPWISE)
._________         (IN  Ml  LION SDRs)                              _
CAlEGORY   DESCRIP1K)N           TOTAL CREDIT DEISURSED     ADJUSTMENTS    TOTAL   NET            SEPIEMBER         Jun*-97 IFFE
__________  ______________       ~~~~UPTO JULY .41CFORoaveidrawal REC11EDENV1 -   REUIJREMEEt  1997 Pwojec (ions
I_     CIVILWORKS        _        101.90       100.88           1.02        6.60        7.62       100.50      104.10        4.40
2     EQUIPMENTIMATERIALS          42.90        4 4.03         -1.13        1.98         0.85       44.08       44.90        -0.02
3     IIOME EXP.LOANS               5.40         5.40           0.00        0.00 _       0.00        5.40        5.40        0.00
4     CONSULTlTRAINING              5.90          5.51          03_9 0. __0.05           0.44        5.95        6.00        -0.05
S     I'MJCMCsCOSTS                 4 .50         4 .60        -0.10        0.20         0.10        4.70        4.60        0.10
6     I)ESIGN & SUPERVISKMN         3.60         4.00          -1.2(        3.01         1.81        6.61        5.80        0.81
7     SUB3LOAN PA1IT-D             13.00          1.70         11.30       -B,47        2.83         4.53        7.00        -3.27
8     GIIANFSPAlIT * E              5.50          1. Il)        4 41       -*3.37        1.03        2.13        4.10        -1.97
0_00        0.00         0.00        0.00                     0.00
_  SA                        )0.00         1.50          -1.50        0.00        -1.50        0.00        0.00
________  _ __________ __  ________  _______0.00  0.00  0.00   0.0                      0.00
UNAllOCATED                 I90 1.00      001.00                     0.00 o       iO 1.00     1.0          1.00        0.00
________  _________________ __   _     ___________          0.00  I      0.00        0.00         0.00
_________  TOTAL           183.70       169.52          14.18        0.00        14.18      183.70      983.70         0.00
o eH
-  (Il



Annex 6
Page 1 of 7
TNUDF and GF
1. Organization and MNvanagement
(i) Accounting Staff
TNTUIFSL has two accounting staff each of whom is assigned to a block of borrowers in support of
each of the Vice Presidents responsible for lending. An individual qualified as both a Chartered
Accountant and Company Secretary is to join in October and the CEO is also considering
recruiting a Manager, Accounts.
The Chartered Accountant is needed urgently and his financial responsibilities should include: the
preparation of financial statements; analysis of and reporting on operating results; taxation; cash
and treasury management; and development and maintenance of the Fund's financial information
systems. Close liaison with the financial institutions in order to draw on their experience and
resources will be very helpful in fulfilling these responsibilities as quickly as possible.
While a Manager of Accounts may also be needed as the volume of business grows, it is suggested
that the staffina and organization of the accounting group be one of the first responsibilities of the
new Chartered Accountant.
(ii) Financial Information Systems
The Fund continues to rely on an outdated data base system for its financial information. This
system. which was the system used by MUDF, does not support accrual accounting, is suitable
only for a single user, does not allow interim financial statements to be prepared until the previous
year's accounts are closed off and has many other limitations which are not present in modem
general ledger systems. It also needs frequent maintenance to keep it functioning. Partly as a result
of these deficiencies no formal financial statements have been prepared in the 5 months that
TNLUDF has been in existence. Prior to that the only formal statements that have been prepared are
the March 31, 1997 statements prepared by the new auditors at the end of September 1997 and the
September 30, 1996 statements prepared by the previous auditors in December 1996.
There is an urgent need for a general ledger and loan accounting system capable of supporting the
Fund's present and likely future needs for both accounting and financial information. Such a
system should be specified in detail before a package is selected or development undertaken; its
capabilities should include:
i. supporting-multiple users;
ii. providing on-screen balances and management information to management in all departnents;
iii. accounting for various types of loan and investment instruments (not only those currently in
use);



Annex 6
Page 2 of 7
iv. incorporating full accrual accounting;
v. providing arrears information on a daily basis;
vi. generating loan repayment and other advices to be issued to borrowers
vii. providing schedules of forecast cash flows to support treasury management;
viii.rracking of loan applications through appraisal, sanctioning and disbursement; and
ix. linking loans to projects.
2. Audit Issues
At the request of the institutional shareholders, S.B. Billimoria & Co have been appointed to
prepare and audit the March 31, 1997 financial statements. The new auditors replace A.F.
Ferguson & Co who prepared the September 30, 1996 financial statements.
The new auditors have provided TNUDF with financial statements and resolved the following
issues before issuing an audit report:
i. Loan loss provisions - The auditors were assuming that the GOTN will provide a guarantee of
the loan balances and outstanding interest (both regular and penal) transferred to TNUDF. We
understand that GOTN issued such a guarantee.
II. Income recognition of the previous period.
The mission was informed that the Auditor has cleared the March 31, 1997. T:NUFIS will submit
the audited account to the Bank once the Board of Director of the Trustees of NINUDF approve it.
3. Financial Review
Recent and comparative financial statements for TNUDF are presented in Table A and are
reviewed briefly below.
Balance Sheet
Loans at March 31 stood at Rs 1.7 billion up 28% from Rs 1.4 billion a year earlier. In the 5
months to August 31, 1997 the fund has approved loans of Rs 1520 million against which it
disbursed Rs 225.7 million (a ratio of 23%), compared to the allocated IDA bal]ance of Rs 600
million (USS 17 million). Thus the rate of approval is running much higher thana planned but the
rate of disbursement is much lower than planned due, in the Fund's view, to:
i. Delays in obtaining IDA approval for large loans (those in excess of Rsl50 million require
IDA's approval), one of which (for the Pallavan Transortation Corporation) was not approved
befor the credit closing mainly due to the delay of fare revision and one of which (the Madurai
ring road) raised complex resettlement and rehabilitation issues;
ii. The procurement procedures mandated by the World Bank.
iii. The need for borrowers to become familiar with TNUDF's requirements; and
iv. The Fund's desire to respect the preference of borrowers to stagger loan drawdowns to
minimize interest costs.
During the audit of the September 30, 1996 financial statements the auditors reviewed the
repayment performance of the loan portfolio and booked loan loss provisions. Since the bulk of
loans had been made prior to the year then ended the loan loss reserve is shown in the March 31,
1996 statements and carried forward to September 30 1996. No reserve is shown in the March
1997 starements as the auditor is assuming that GOTN will issue a guarantee for all loans
transferred to TNUDF.



Annex6
Page 3 of 7
At September 30, 1996 the loan loss reserve was determined by providing for 100% of doubtful
loans (those for which no repayments have been received for a period of 2 years after the due
dace), 10% of sub-standard loans (those for which no repayments have been received for a period
of 1-2 years) And a 5 % general provision for all others. Penal interest was provided for in full;
interest on doubtful and sub-standard loans was provided for to the same extent as principal. Given
the I year payment holiday the loan loss provisioning is not affected by disbursements made in the
last vear; also payment experience is not easily monitored on a current basis because payments are
only required semi-annually, and the preparation of aging reports is delayed to the same extent as
the preparation of accounts.
Loans represent unsecured loans from GOTN in the amount of Rs 1.3 billion plus accrued interest
of Rs 235 million. Interest on these loans is capitalized for the first 5 years and since the first loan
(Rs 15 million) was paid in the period 1992/3, repayments have not yet become due.
Capital of Rs 1.4 billion represents GOTN's ownership in the Fund before transfers to establish the
Grant Fund.
Lending guidelines restrict the amount of loans outstanding to any one borrower to 40% of the
Fund's net worth. 'The largest borrower is the City of Chennai to which loans at March 31, 1997
totaled Rs 390 million, or 28 % of the net worth of Rs 1,400 million.
Income and expenditure
The net interest earning for the 6 months to March 31, 1997 declined by 35% (from Rs 78 million
to Rs 51 million) compared to the previous 6 months due largely to declining interest rates for term
deposits. This trend will likely continue and highlights the importance of effective cash and
treasury management to the Fund's performance.
Operating expenses of Rs 5 million relate only to the fees paid to TNLUIFSL in respect of loans
sanctioned in March (charged at 1 %) and supervision and monitoring for the period November 7
to March 31 (at 0.25 % of the average loan balance).



Annex 6
Page 4 of 7
TNUCF Financial Statements                                                   Table A
Rs in millions
Unaudited (Note)
3alance Sheet                            31-Mar-97  30-Sep-96  31-Mar-96
Cas., in bank                               598          2      254
Term dePosits                               691       682        520
1 259      684        774
Loans                                     1,739      1,727     1,357
Less- !can loss reserve                               137        131
Net loans                                1 739      1590      1226
Total assets                              3 028       274      2.000
Suncri creditors                             17         9         10
Loans from GOTN                           1 565       1      002  837
1,582     1,011       847
Capisai                                   1,401      1,017      977
*Surpus                                      45       246       176
Total liabiOitiesand surplus              3.028      2.274     2.000
Income anU Expenditure                   6 months   6 months    Year
31-Mar-97  33-Sep-96  31 -Mar-96
Interes; on loans                            72        75       150
Interesz on deposits                         32        48       110
Totai interest                             104        123       260
Interes; expense                             53        45__ 66
Net interesz                                51         78       194
Operating expenses:
Manacement fees                              5
Consultancy                                  2         2 o  
Total ccerating                               7          2         X
Provis;cn fcr loan losses                   -           5        115
Net income                                   44        71        77
Nce Although unaudited, the March 31, 1997 and September 30, 1 G96
financ;a' statements have been prepared by auditors on the accrual basis.
The main outstanding issues with respect to the March 31, 1997
starements are (i) the loan loss provision - none has been recorded on the
assurnp_ tcrn that a guarantee in respect of principal, regular interest and
penal r:-erest will be provided by GOTN: and (ii) income taxes, the liability for
whicn. .s being researched.



Annex-6
Page 5 of 7
4. Grant Fund
(i) Financial Review
The fund had a balance of Rs52.2 million at the end of August, 1997 after receiving start-up grants
of Rs 156.3 million from GOTN. Since its inception at April 1, 1997 the Grant Fund has disbursed
Rs l 01.1 million to local bodies and incurred Rs3.1 million in expenses. There has been no transfer in
respect of the GOTN's share of TNUDF's profit; this must await a determination of TNUDF's profit
since its inception.
The financial statement at August 31, 1997 is shown below while the breakdown of disbursements
and grant applications is shown in Table B. There has been no audit of the Fund since its inception,
and nor is one required until its first year end.
Of the Rs 101 million disbursed to date, Rs32 million is in respect of applications received by the
predecessor fund, MUDF, and Rs 69 million is in respect of the new Grant Fund. 94% of total
disbursements have been for category Im projects (those of benefit to the poor) and this category
also accounts for the largest part of applications received but not yet disbursed.
TNUDF - Grant Fund
Rs in millions
Fund Balance as at at August 31, 1997
Grants received from GOTN (Note 1)               156
Less: expenses                                     3
grants to local bodies (Note 2)
Balance of fund
Represented by:
Cash in bank (deposit account earning 5%)
Notes:
1. Grants from GOTN have been received in the amounts
of
Rs 90 million (April 1997) and Rs 66 million
(August'97)
2. Grants to local bodies are summarized in the attached
schedule
Projects sanctioned but not yet disbursed total Rs 182 inilion and exceed the fund balance of Rs 52
million. In the 5 months to August 31 grant applications totaling Rs 499 million have been received
suggesting an annual volume of Rs1O00 million; the transfer of GOTN's annual profits from
TNUDF will account: for only Rs9O million of this amount leaving a significant shortfall (based on
the TNNUDF's results for the 6 months to March 31, 1997).
Additional sources of funds are clearly desirable and might include bilateral donors and recovering
the cost of certain grants by including them in the value of loans to be repaid on approved projects.



Annex-6
Page 6 of 7
(ii) Disposition of Grant Funds
In accordance with the agreed guidelines for the use of grant funds, grants are being disbursed for
the following categories of projects:
Category r: Strengthening of local bodies' management and svstems
Category II: Resettlement and rehabilitation related to TNUDF projects
Category III: Projects of benefit to urban poor
Category IV: Project preparation costs related to TNUDF projects
Included in category I are projects to computerize the records of local bodies with the objective of
improving their ability to manage their finances. An example is a recent grant to supply 329
computers to the 104 urban bodies (at a cost of Rs 27 million) and to develop and install software
and provide training (at a total cost of Rs 4 million).
Category m grants are made in accordance with 3 criteria:
i. they must be for service (i.e. non-remunerative) schemes;
ii. they cannot exceed Rs 10 million; and
iii. the amount of the grant is determined by the proportion of poor people (families whose annual
income is less than Rs 12 thousand) benefiting from the project, subject to a maximum
proportion of 30% and the Rs 10 million cap referred to above.
The fact that disbursement of the grant funds in the five months to August 31, 1997 has been the
equivalent of US$2.8 million compared to the available IDA funding of US$5 million suggests that
the funds are being disbursed with selectivity, as required under the fund guidelines.



Annex 6
Page 7 of 7
TNUDF - Grant Fund                                               Table B
Analysis of Grant Disbursements for the 5 months to August 31, 1SS7
Rs in millions
Borrower                          Category (See note)
I        II       lil      /IV      Total
Ofd MUDF applications
Aranthangi                                   7.5                7.5
Gudiyatham                                   1.1                1.1
Mannargudi                                   2.2                2.2
Panruti                                      0.4                0.4
Pallavaram                                   4.0               4.0
Pudukottai                                   3.7                3.7
Sivakasi                                     8.3               8.3
Thiruthuraipoondi                            0.4                0.4
Tiruvottiyur                                 3.7               3.7
Virudhachalam                                1.7                1.7
Sub total                  .              32.91              32.9
TNUDF Applications.
Coimbatore                6.0               12.8               18.8
Kumbakonam                                   1.9               1.9
Karur                                        4.7      0.1      4.9
Madurai                                     10.0               10.0
Madhavaram                                   7.5                7.5
Nagercoil                                    1.3               1.3
Rajapalayam                                 19.1              19.1
TiruDpur                                     5.5               5.5
Sub total               6.01    X         62.8       0.11    69.0
Total                   6.0               95.7       0.11    101.9
% by category           5.9               94.0       0.1    100.0
Sanctioned, not yet disbursed:
.  t  42.41             105.71    33.41    181.5
Appraised, not yet sanctioned:
l    113.71     0.51    330.81    33.71   478.7
Note:
Category J: Strengthening of local bodies' management and systems
Category II: Resettlement and rehabilitation relatedi to TNUDF projects
Category HII: Projects of benefit to urban poor
Category IV: Project preparation costs related to TNUDF projects



Annex 7
Page 1 of 3
Report on the
State of Urban Reforms in Tamil Nadu
September 27, 1997
1.    The objectives of this Note are to provide an assessment of the state of progress in
the implementation of the 74th Constitutional Amendment in Tamil Nadu and to identify
the areas where the World Bank could provide assistance to further the reform process
under a follow-up urban sector operation (INUDP-II). It is based on the findings of the
mission to Tamil Nadu during the period September 21-30, 1997. The mission found the
progress with the implementation of the 74th Constitutional Anmendment to be
impressive, placing Tamil Nadu among the most progressive states in this regard.
Moreover. the State has pioneered legislation to support public-private partnerships in the
fihnncing and provision of urban services and infrastructure. Following through with
these reforms is the next critical step, and could be supported by the follow-up urban
sector development operation.
2.    The State of Tamil Nadu is amnong the most advanced of the States in the Union in
terms of implementing the provisions of the 74th Constitutional Amendment. The Urban
Local Bodies (TNULB) Bill (1997) will replace and consolidate the separate and archaic
legislation governing municipal corporations and municipalities, and includes provisions
for the town panchayats. The Bill will introduce major reforms in the administration of
bLBs which would be closer in line with the spirit of decentralization. EProposed changes
in the Bill are supported by the recommendations of the State Finance Comrmission
Report. The Bill was presented to the State Legislative Assembly on April 1997. It is
expected to receive the President's assent and passed into law within one year. In the
meantime, the State is drafting interim recommendations to the existing Acts to
implement changes to the property tax. These amendments are expected to be approved
bv January 1998. Once enacted, the Urban Local Bodies Act will represent an historical
landmark in the way urban local bodies will fanction and be administered in the country.
Main Elements of the Reform Process
3.    The urban reforms initiated by the State are consistent with the recommendations
of the recent World Bank India Urban Infrastructure Services Review which identified
kev issues facing the urban sector in India today: (a) the lack of an enabling legislative
framework to support economic liberalization and increasing decentralization; (b) weak
urban and financial management, including distortionary land market policies; and (c)
inadequate finance to support the infrastructure requirements of urban development.
Together the State Finance Conmmission Report and the TNULB address these areas. The
State Finance Commission's recommendations on the devolution of fimds have been
enacted through two Government Orders dated May 2, 1997, while those pertaining to the
auamentation of municipal own revenues, such as propertv taxes and user charges, have



Annex 7
Page 2 of 3
been incorporated in the TNULB Bill. In addition. the State issued an ordinance on July
1 7. 1997 permitting ULBs in principle to enter into partnership with the private sector for
the provision of urban infrastructure. This is being implemented in the Karur Bridge
project which is being prepared under a BOOT arrangement.
IUrban Management
4.    The TNULB Bill and the SFC recommendations recognize the importance of
strengthening the capacity of ULBs in urban service deliverv. Both documents contain
provisions supported by the 9th Plan which allocated funds for this purpose. In tandem
with these reforns, the TNULB Bill has also increased the delegation of powers to ULBs
in terms of the maximum threshold permitted for individual civil works that could be
undertaken by ULBs without State permission, as well as the approval ceiling for
different categories of engineering staff: While these represent a significant increase
from previous levels,' there remains more scope for further enhancement of
responsibilities and spending limits over time.
5 . . Although the issue of a minimum fixed tenure for municipal commissioners
(NIunicipal Corporations) and chief executives (Municipalities) has not been directly
addressed for a variety of reasons, the constraints it poses to effective management is
widelv recognized. For example, discussions with the Deputy Director of the Department
of Municipal Administration indicate an interest to introduce reservation for the open
recruitment of chief executive officers for smaller cities for a cadre of trained
professionals, and the creation of a state-level city managers association. Organization
studies to promote intemal efficiencies of cities, such as those undertaken in Calcutta.
Surat and Ahmedabad, are potential area for technical assistance. In particular, the
Department of Municipal Administration is interested in applying this concept initially on
a pilot basis for each category of ULB. It is already being attempted by the Chennai
Mfunicipal Corporation for a specific department.
6.    Specifically on training, initial workshops and seminars have already been held
for local officers and elected officials with some assistance from TNUDP. It is important
that training be "demand-driven", that is, responsive to the changing requirements of the
reform process. This implies giving equal importance to technical as well as process
skills (e.g. negotiation, consensus building, contracting, etc) in the training program. A
nodal training institute--the TN Institute of Urban Studies--was identified and proposed to
the Bank for potential support under the next operation. The Institute is supported by
contributions from ULBs and is located in Coimbatore with a small core staff and
technical support from the faculty of urban planning from Anna University in Chennai. It
is equally important to develop a research arm, in collaboration with existing academic
facilities, to systematically accumulate and update much needed data on ULBs to assist
government in policymaking. EDI can play an important role in helping develop the
Institute's training capability and in the dissemination of good practice from elsewhere in
the world.



Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
7.    To promote increased transparency and political accountability, the State is
strengthening basic accounting practices in ULBs through the introduction of accounting
manuals.
8.    In the area of urban land markets, the State has taken two major steps: (a)
deiinking property tax assessments from the Rent Control Act and (b) dramatic reduction
of stamp duties from 12% to 0.1%. Coimbatore has already introduced this new method
of property tax assessment with resulting increases in revenues. The adoption of this new
method, combined with stricter penalties for non-payment and disincentives for lengthy
court litigations, are significant reforms. Computerization of ULBs would also facilitate
the modernization of land records and land use planning.
Urban Finance
9.    Reforrns introduced in the TNULB Bill and the SFC Report address the two-fold
need to: (a) mobilize resources for service and non-remunerative schernes, and (b)
strengthen municipal financial management practices. For 1997-98, the State has already
devolved Rs 240 crores to ULBs from State receipts on a fixed formula for O&M and
debt servicing.    The State envisages a gradual increase in this allocation with
commensurate improvement in local capacities. The sustainability of this devolution will
have to be considered within the overall context of State finances.  In addition, it is
important to ensure that funds are deployed in the most cost-effective manner; this is
linked, in turn, to improvements in urban management.
10.   The TNULB Bill also introduces major reforms to augment the cities' own
resources. These include tax reforrns, such as revisions in tax and non-tax revenues; new
tax assignrments and stricter penalties for non-payment of taxes and user charges.
Disincentives have also been introduced against lengthy court litigations on property tax
challenges. Finally, ULBs have started to privatize civic services, such as solid waste
collection and disposal, and water supply (e.g. Chennai, Tirrupu). ULBs are also
permitted to borrow money through debentures and loans from banks and financial
institutions on the security of taxes and duties. TiNUDP and the TNUIFSL have provided
long-term financing and facilitated private capital reflows for infrastructure. Finally, a
major incentive to improving financial discipline and cost recovery in ULBs has been the
introduction of incentives at the State and Central levels. Cities can be eligible for an
additional 15% from State grants and 10% from Central grants based on their financial
performance.



Annex 8
Page 1 of 3
TNUDF: Pipeline of Sub-Project and Absorptive Capacity Of ULBs
1. Pipeline of Sub-projects
(I)    TNUIFSL distinguishes its pipeline into two categories: (a) conventional small-
scale municipal development projects (like improvements to water supply and stormwater
manazement, garbage collection vehicles, bus terminals, shopping complexes etc); (b)
large capital development projects in municipal corporations and large ULB's (eg. toll
roads and bridges, sanitation services, water supply, sewerage and sewage treatment
plants and solid waste management including sanitary landfills and transfer stations and
storm water management). In the first category, TNUIFSL has developed a pipeline of
US $ 130 million. The latter category is recent, and the only sub-project that has
si nificantly advanced is the toll bridge project in Karur Municipality, where the
selection of a private sector BOT is in process. TNUIFSL is fully aware of the
pioneering role it will need to plav in this categorv, if the second project is to make any
significant impact in the development of municipal infrastructure in the state with private
sector participation. To this end. feasibility study to prepare a detailed project report and
RFP is underway for the Madurai Inner Ring Road Project. Similar studies are also to be
undertaken for solid waste management in Coimbatore and Trichy and water supply and
sewerage in Madurai. These are expected to be completed in the next 12 months.
(2)    Solid Waste Management   This as a municipal service has emerged as a high
priority for the municipal corporations (MC) and ULBs in Tamil Nadu. All the MCs have
approached the TNUIFSL for developing a comprehensive solid waste management
program that involves improved collection and safe disposal of solid waste. At present
there exists no systemic management of garbage collection and disposal. though one or
two cities have effected some improvements in the past year. Solid waste management
continues to receive nearly a quarter of MC budgets, but the level of service provided is
inadequate. Collected garbage is haphazardly dumped causing serious environmental and
public health damage. TNUIFSL seeks to approach this in a two pronged manner: (a)
continue to fmance the smaller and medium sized ULBs to improve their waste collection
through acquisition of collection equipment and assist in the transition to controlled
dumps, as a first step; (b) seek private sector participation in improving garbage
collection and construction and operation of sanitarv landfills and transfer stations,
beginning with two MCs. The mission highlighted the importance of primary and
secondary collection of garbage, and the need to focus beyond the construction of
sanitarv landfills. GOTN and TNUIFSL recognized the importance of a comprehensive
Available revenues for the management must be obtained from either the individual residents and/or
from the general tax base.



Annex-8
Page 2 of 3
approach and sought Bank assistance. The scope of the previously developed ToR 2for
the sanitarv landfills will be expanded to include waste collection, and the coverage will
be reduced to two MNICs (Coimbatore and Trichy). The Bank will work with TNUIFSL in
finalizing the ToR. The mission was informed that GOTN has formallv made a request
to GOI/DEA to obtain funding for this study from the IDA funds of the Private
Infrastructure Finance (IL&FS) Project. Financina alone will not improve solid waste
management, it will need to be backed by management reforms , capacity building of
MCs and ULBs and incremental cost recoverv.
(3)    Underground Sewerage -- Municipal Corporations and large municipalities are
considering this investment. Clearly, this approach has many desirable aspects but is very
expensive and it should be carefully examined as to whether it will work correctly (e.g. when the
water supply is not continuous). The most reasonable approach would appear to require
incremental placement of underground works, where portions of the municipality have sewers
placed, and that the svstem be expanded over time. Concemr still exists as to the willingness to
pay of the residents and how to handle the needs of lower income residents.
(4)    Bridges -- Several bridges could be constructed under the BOOT schermes.
An incentive to build more efficient bridges and/or causeways must be pursued. The tendering
process encourages decreases in the structural integrity of the bridge, resulting in the need for the
technical review committee to determine whether the changes in design are reasonable and
appropriate.
(5)    Sing Roads -- Construction of a ring road by BOOT is certainly a feasible engineering
assignment. The important consideration is whether the altematives, particularly as they relate to
location of components of the road, the efficiencv of toll booths, and the long-term maintenance,
are appropriately incorporated. The BOOT procedure involves preliminary design by the
promoter but the initial constraints placed on the project, will influence the nature of the designs.
Assurance that the project will be efficient, properly maintained and operated, is yet to be
proven.
2. Absorptive Capacity of ULBs
(1)TNTUDF is requesting an additional loan of USS200 million over a 5 year period
(Rs 1.4 billion per annum at current exchange rates). Drawing on reports of the State
Finance Commission. investment requirements of corporations, municipalities and
panchayats are estimated at Rs 38 billion over the 5 vears to 2001 (Rs7.6 billion per
annum) with the water and sanitation sector accounting for 64% of this requirement.
(2) A review of the surpluses for the years 1997 to 2001/02 projected by 10
municipalities indicate the ability to service a maximum of Rs 21, 170 million (US$ 605
million) for 5 year period (annually Rs 4,234, US $120 million). The property tax reforms
envisaged and increase of user charges would further enhance the debt service capacity of
The terms of reference need refinement. Schemes to involve elements of the local population should
be considered. Enhancement of recycling (e.g. plastics, metals, and glass) should be encouraged



Annex 8
Page 3 of 3
the ULBs. Further information on the impact of these additional resources on ULBs and
their likely deployment is needed before capacity can be projected with any confidence.



Annex 9.
Page 1 of 6
TNUDF: Financial Projections
Financial projections have been prepared assuming that the full US$200 million can be
lent over 5 years and are shown in the attached schedules. The other main assumptions
are:
i. GOTN's share of profits will be paid to the Grant Fund;
ii. The institutional shareholders will leave their share of profits in the Fund (the Bank's
proposal);
iii. Bad debts will reduce the inflow of loan and interest payments by 10%;
iv. Loans sanctioned from the existing loan in the fiscal year ending March 31, 1998 will
be Rs 1800 million of which Rs 1500 million will be disbursed in the same year and
Rs 300 million in the following year;
v. Thereafter loan disbursements from the proposed new loan will be R's 1440 million
per year;
vi. Loans to ULBs will bear interest at 16.5% and repayment terms will be unchanged;
vii. Funding sources in the year ended March 3 1, 1998 will be Rs 510 million in equity
from the institutional shareholders, and Rs 600 million in loans fromr GOTN; and
viii.Loans from GOT'N will bear interest at 13.5% and have the same repayment terms as
the existing loans.
Under these assumptions the profits of the fund increase from Rs 251 million in 1998 to
Rs 446 million by 2000 and in the same period the debtlequity ratio increases from I to 2,
while the financial institutions' ownership of the fund increases from 32% (by the end of
1998 following their contribution of Rs 510 million) to 43%. The institutions' ownership
reaches-just over 50% by the end of 200l.The loan portfolio increases from Rs 1600
million to Rs 3130 million while cash and investments increase from Rs 1242 million to
Rs 1804 million.



Annex 9
Page 2 of 6
TNUDF-Prnflt and Llss Sttatement
W~ar                                      8 m9              20        20O      2002     2
Income fom Operadons
Interest an loans
-TNUOF41                                19.56     25.92     45.66    50.13    49.49    48.74
-TNUOfIl                                o0.00      0.00      0.00    23.76    47.08    69.8E
Total interest recd.                    19.56     25.92    45.66     73.89    96.57    118.6:
Income on investments                   13.51     13.90     16.83    22.03    27.23     32.43
Less:
Interest expenses                        2.97      6.85      9.59    16.17    28.62    26.6--
Bad debts                                2.67      3.46      5.68     8.87    11.52    14.16
Net inc=me from Operations              27.43    -29.51    47.22     70.88    83.66    110.24
Expenses
AMC fees                                 2.38      2.22      2.59     2.92     3.24     3.55
Net profit                              25.05     27.29     44.62    67.96    80.42   106.69



Annex 9
Page 3 of 6
TNUDF.Funds no6w statament
12ZQ                        2Mai     MU 2     20
SOURCFS
Contnbution                              51.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
Net profit transferred to R&S            12.78    13.92     22.76     34.68    41.01    54.41
Loans receiveg                           60.00    144.00    144.00    144.00   144.00   144.00
Repayment of loans
.TNUDF-I                                  7.18     8.69     11.13     12f16    12.81    13.56
-TNUDF-11                                 0.00     0.00      0.00      2.67     5.79     9.42
Other liabilities
- Provision forbad debts                  2.67     3.46      5.68      8.87    11.52    14.16
- Transferable to GF                     1227     13.37     21.86     33 10    39.40    52.28
- Provision for dividend to FIs           0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
Investments                              0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
TOTAL                                   145.90    183.43    205.43    235.66   254.53   287.83
APU ICATIONS
Loans disbursed
-TNUOF-I                                150.00    30.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
-TNUOF-11                                 0.00    144.00    144.00    144.00   144.00   144.00
Repayment of loans                        1.76     3.56      5.22     14.03    21.20    23.99
Investments                             40.00      5.00     40.00    40.00    40.00    40.00
TOTAL                                   191.76    182.56    189.22    198.03   205.20   207.99
Opening cash baiance                     59.81    13.96     14.83    31.04    68.67    118.00
Surplus/(Deficit)                       -45.86     0.87     16.21    37.63    49.33    79.84
Closing balance                          13.96    14.83     31.04    68.67    118.00   197.84



Annex 9
Page 4 of 6
TNIUQF - Ralar2ee She
Y8-ar                                              jo 1                2I   ZZlfZ       ZflQ:
LlABILITIES
Capital/ccntmbubon            125.61    176.61    176.61    176.51    176.61   17,6.61   176.61
Reserves and surplus            8.00     20.78     34.69    57.45     92.11   133.12   187.53
Bonowings                     133.00    191.24    331.68    470.46    500.43   723.23   843.24
Current liabilifies & provisions
- Provision for bad debts       0.00      2.57      6.14     1 1.81   20.69    32.20    46.36
- Transferable to GF           18.71     30.98     44.35     66.22    99.52   138.92   191.20
- Provision for dividend to FIs  0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
TOTAL                         285.32    422.28    593.47    782.55    989.35  1204.08  1444.94
ASSETS
Investments                    64.43    104.43    109.43    149.43    189.43   229.43   269.43
Loans and advances
-TNUOF-i                      160.06    302.88    324d19    313.06    300.90   288.10   274.54
-TNUOF-If                       0.00      0.00    144.00    288.00    429.33   567.53   702.11
Cash and bank balance          59.81     13.96     14.83    31.04     68.67   118.00   197.84
Omer assets                     1.02      1.02      1.02     1.02      1.02     1.02      1.02
TO-TAL                        285.32    422.28    593.47    782.55    989.35  1204.08   1444.94
K-5a, rn-taI indtitAtrsr
Net profitUTtal income                 75.74%    68.52%    71.41%   70.85%    64.96%   70.53%
Net proffVNetwonr                      12.69%    12.91%    19.06%    25.29%    25.96%   29.30%
Debt-Ecuity ratio                         0.97      1.57     2.01      2.23     2.34      2.32



Annex 
Page 5 of 6
KEY ASSUMPTIONS
(All amounts are in Rs. crores)
For Profit and Loss Statement
AMOlC Sanction fees                           1 % of sanctioned amount
AMNvC Supervisory fees                     0.25% of loan outstanding
The interest rate charged on lending from TNUDF-I averages to about 13%;
Presently the lending rate is 16.5% per annum
The interest rate assumed for lending from TNUDF-II is 16.5% pai
Moratorium period for loans from TNUDF-I&II is 1 year
Repayment period for loans from TNUDF-I&II is 15 years
Average borrowing costs of TNUDF-I       As per sanction terms
Average borrowing costs of TNUDF-11        13.5% pa
Bad debts as a % of princ. repayment and    10%
interest payable
The net profit distributable to GoTN is transferred to GF whereas
the net profit distributable to Fis is ploughed back into the Fund



Annex 2
Page 6 of 6
For Balance Sheet
Fresh contribution from Fis in 1998           51
Loans received by Fund from GoTN in 1998      60
TNUDF-I
Sanctions in 1997-98                         180
Disbursements in 1997-98                     150
Disbursements in 1998-99                      30
TNUDF-11
To be received from IBRD as TNUDF-II
Year   Amount
1998-99     144
1999-00     144
2000-01     144
2001-02     144
2002-03     144
Lending from TNUDF-Il
Year   Amount
1998-99     144
1999-00     144
2000-01     144
2001-02     144
2002-03     144
Moratorium for TNUDF-I Borrowing        As per sanction terms
Moratorium for TNUDF-11 assumed                5
Repayment for TNUDF-I Borrowing         As per sanction terms
Repayment for TNUDF-11 assumed                15
Other assets frozen at                      1.02
According to sanction terms for TNUDF-I and 11, the simple interest payable on the
principle during the moratorium period (5 yrs) is added to the initial principle and
annuity is payable on this enhanced principle from Yr6 to Yr2O



Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
Project Preparation Plan
A project preparation plan is normally discussed and agreed in principle with the: borrower during the
identification mission. A one-two page summary of the plan is attached to the PCD as Annex 2 (see sample developed
by the LAC Region in page 2 of this annex). The plan should cover the following:
Role, responsibility and staffng of the borrower for project preparation, including designation of a project preparation team (Bank
and Borrower).
Bank assistance to be provided during project preparation.*
Arrangements for local/foreign consultant inputs.*
Outline of Project Implementation Plan (see Attachment) to be prepared by the borrower.
Timetable for project preparation (including deadline for submission of the PIP).
Milestones for progress review and any discussions by the Bank.
Key outputs of project preparation, e.g. technical/economic feasibility studies; environmental assessments; institutional, beneficiary,
and social analyses; tariff studies; financial models.
Depth of analysis required for each specialist area, e.g., cost benefit analysis, skills/gap analysis.
Issues to be addressed in parallel with project preparation (parallel track or likely loan conditions).
Modalities of project preparation and analytical tools, e.g., beneficiary participation in project design, beneficiary surveys, use of
logical framework
The proposed public consultation/participation process
Items indicated above that are covered elsewhere in the main text of the PCD can be omitted from the summary but
should form part of the project preparation plan agreed with the borrower.
*Costs are reflected in the project preparation budget (see Annex 3).



Project Preparation Plan
A. Core Project Preparation Team
l...................
B. Project Preparation Activities
Feasibility Studies          [Consultants: direct hire/   [Relevant agency]    $100,000 Japanese  draft report     draft report
competitively selected]                       Grant
Environmental Assessnzent    [NGOs, other agencies,.
local consultants]
Analysis of Social Aspects
Institutional Analysis
Project Implemnentation Plan
(PIP)
C. Specialist Tasks
s~~i~istArea    Levl a                  ,................t.D..m.nt I.....                                  .~ .ar....D...
Tol...   .......                   ..... .                                                 .......
Economic Analysis     Cost/benefit analysis    Microeconomists           Feasibility Study          September 1996
Indigenous Peoples    Field Surveys            SociologistJfluent in local Indigenous peoples plan
dialect
'fq >
S S






A1~FENDLXB
TAM][L NADU URBAN DEVELOPNIENT PROJECT (TNUDP)
(IDA Credit No.1923 IN)
BORROWERS EVALUATION
This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is prepared by the Project
Management Group (PMG) set up by the Government of Tamil Nadu (GoTN) to manage
and monitor over all project implementation. The PMG would manage exclusively the
Municipal Urban Development Fund (MUDF) Component of TNUDP. Following on the
foot steps of the successful implementation of the IDA supported Madras Urban
Development Project - I (MUDP-I) and Madras Urban Development Project - II (MUDP-
II) over ten years from 1977, IDA and GoTN had formulated the multisectoral multi-
agency urban development schemes covering ten major urban centres in Tamil Nadu
State called TNUDP and the Credit Agreement for IDA support of US$ 300 Million was
signed in September 1988 and credit became effective in November 1988. The original
date of credit closing was September 30, 1995 and there was a provision for retroactive
financing covering the period from November 1987 to 1988. The original project cost
was Rs.632.6 crores (US$ 443.7 Million), and the credit size was US$ 300 million (SDR
216.5 Million). The project components include SHELTER, providing affordable
developed sites mainly to the economically weaker section and insitu improvement of
slums providing tenure ensuring full cost recovery and also generating shelter units with
private sector participation under what was known as Guided Urban Development
(GUD), Traffic and Transportation management (TRAMP) including bus component
and the innovative MUDF. The project has been completed in all respects delivering
more units in quantitative terms than originally agreed quantity as per the Project
Agreement. The credit came to a close by September 30, 1997 after two extensions.
One of the well identified appraised and implemented projects, nevertheless it
should be admitt-ed, had failed to insulate adequately against the anticipated setbacks like
the fluctuations in the exchange parity consequent of devaluation of rupee and the
suspension of the credit on the basis of an innocuous issue (though assumed
disproportionate importance in the World Bank Circle) viz. the Rehabilitation and
Resettlement (R&R). But the success story of implementation of complex nature of the
project had lead to the creation of a new financial intermediary continuing the
performance under the implementation of the MUDF Component of TNUDP. In contrast
the GUD component had failed to take off perhaps due to inadequate influence to rope in
private sector participation and highly insulated institutional approach.
The project objectives mainly focused on strengthening the State Urban Financial
and Functional Intermediaries, increasing the capacity of the Local Bodies for Urban
Management and Investment Programming, increase the supply of environmentally



2
acceptable and affordable serviced shelter units and implementation of cost effective
urban road and traffic management scheme and providing a comfortable public transport
facility for movement of people.
In retrospect. the physical objectives of the project were achieved to the highly
satisfactory level although initially the institutional preparedness of certain implementing
agencies did lead to delays in design, procurement and i;nplementation. The compliance
of the major covenants and also slavish adherence to the project description in the project
agreement had lead to the slow pace of absorption of the inflated credit size due to
devaluation and the uncertainties in getting extensions from IDA for the credit. In spite
of the provision for retroactive financing the phase of absorption was slow due to the
procedural preparatory arrangements that are required to be organised, had caused
cancellation of credit size in two transfers viz. SDR 22 Million in 1992 and SDR 10.8
Million in 1994. The scheme sizing, particularly the road schemes, had given the
exposure opportunity to the Department of Highways and Rural Works (DHRW) to
implement larger than their normal annual outlays. The periodical fare revisions have
benefited the Pallavan Transport Corporation which implemented the BUS sub-
component to augment their self generated resource and became a viable institution to
take up their capital programmes with adequate debt servicing capacity. The alleged bus
fare subsidy has been substantially reduced in the public transport environment. The
dependency on the state Govt., sources for urban infrastructure development programmes,
has been reduced (approximately 25% to 30% of the project expenditures came from
internally generated resources). On the other hand the State Govt., had benefited by way
of Additional Central Assistance with a mix of loan and grant amounting to
approximately 80% of the cost to completion. The windfall opportunity to equip the
departments responsible for traffic management, traffic control (Police) and providing
infrastructure facilities to attend to Accident Maintenance and Emergency Medical
Services (AMEMS) are few of the major achievement of the infrastructure development.
The Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) have enthusiastically taken up capital programmes for
improvement of civic services by accessing the MUDF window which survived its
competitive location in the field of urban financing and thereby enhanced their debt
servicing capacity by revising the Property Tax which is the major resource base for
them, during the course of TNUDP implementation. The technical component (TATE)
built into every major component had helped the project authorities to provide good
exposure in management techniques, project appraisal and also to take up several studies
in the urban infrastructure discipline. The Property Tax has been revised, the collections
had improved and most Municipalities have managed to adjust their revenue account
deficits. The devolution of resources to the State Government have helped the local
bodies to a larger extent the clearance of all their arrears dues. Therefore the institutional
strengthening that resulted from the project can be termed as satisfactory. In addition, the
project entities benefited through their increased capacities for urban planning and PMG
was able to support several towns in improving their financial management.
A factor that posed difficulties and hampered progress under the project was
complexity of operation involving large number of sub-projects and executing agencies.



3
In the absence of any prerogative given to PMG for resource allocation for projects, the
co-ordinating efforts started sagging to some extent. At the same time it should be
admitted concentration of resource allocation privilege under the project could have also
become counterproductive. The lack of timely response from the entities to the demands
of PMG placed a considerable burden though performed creditably mainly focusing on
reports and general attention about details of project implementation, adherence to the
procurement procedure and quick mobilization, processing and filing of reimbursement
for IDA disbursement and also the follow up of the releases of ACA from GOI to GTN.
It could have been concluded that the relative inexperience in handling externally aided
large sub projects in terms of requisite preparation and managerial expertise had
hampered time bound project execution. The procurement issues for large contracts were
decided at Washington Office which caused delays in clearances though at later stages the
Bank's New Delhi Office started to resolve them. One other issue affecting the
performance of project objectives which cropped up during implementation was
constraints posed due to running parallel several programmes of the States whose terms
and conditions, nature and culture were in conflict with those proposed under TNUDP.
Multisectoral concerns which involve multiple agencies by way of an integrated
development approach is the lesson one has learnt in TNUDP. There is a need to resolve
certain legal issues or issues falling under statutes. The role mandate and authority of a
co-ordinating body like PMG should have been strengthened with proper statutory back
up to influence events on the ground.
The borrower's perforrnance can be rated highly satisfactory in terms of
preparation, implementation and covenants compliance. The physical objectives were
substantial.
Our view point on the suspension of the credit in November 1994, is explained in
detail in the Annexure which was the fax message sent to the Regional Vice President on
December 28, 1994. In brief it should be mentioned that IDA had resorted to suspension
of credit measure suo moto without giving adequate opportunity to the project authorities
to explain in defense, the action pursued in regard to the R&R issue. The fax conveying
the suspension of credit includes all incorrect information and without verification of the
facts on the ground. It was also a failure on the part of IDA to verify the fact whether
STOWAD was implemented with or without the concurrence of IDA. IDA had chosen to
send a Mission for ensuring corrective action only after resorting to suspension of credit.
On the other hand, the Mission's visit should have preceded the decision to suspend the
credit so that every one involved in the project reached good understanding of the real
issues at stake. The decision to suspend the credit really made a dent on the credibility of
the borrower. This issue had provided ample opportunities to IDA to review and reorient
their R&R policy for posterity. This was not done. It should be mentioned here that the
R&R policies of IDA may sometimes even scuttle the project implementation in terms of
cost consideration and it is a serious matter for consideration whether the developments
are more important than the expensive (as advocated by IDA) R&R implementation
where illegal encroachers are required to be compensated.



4
Yet another issue to be focused is that of keeping the borrowers in suspense for
long duration without giving concurrence for some of the projects for which in principle
clearance was given earlier and withheld further clearance. With the result that credit
became a vehicle in search of projects. During the course of action pursued for
restructuring the IDA credit we were having a definite understanding with the IDA to the
effect that the extension for the IDA credit would be available for three years. But the
project authorities were taken aback to see that the Credit Agreement was amended
giving extension of credit for just one year. This kind of uncertainties was a big set back
for the smooth programming and implementation of the schemes. The extension given in
piece-meal short duration also affected the progress of work, as the agencies were not
able to be provided with funds in anticipation and proceeded with tender procedures, etc.
Ratings:
A.    Achievement of Obiectives:
Macro policies - substantial; Sector policies - Substantial Financial objectives -
Partial; Institutional development - Partial; Physical objectives - substantial; other social
objectives - partial; Environmental objectives - substantial; Public sector management -
Partial; Private sector development - N/a.
B.    Project sustainability - Likely
C.    Bank performance: Identification - satisfactory; Preparation assistance -
satisfactory; Appraisal - satisfactory; Supervision - deficient.
D.    Borrovwers performance: Preparation - satisfactory; Implementation - highly
satisfactory; Covenant compliance - satisfactory.
E.    Assessment Outcome: satisfactory.



5
(Fax dated December 28.1995 from M. Madhavan Nambiar. I.A.S., Project Director
(TNUDP) to Mr. JToseph Wood. Regional Vice President, South Asia Region.
COMMENTS:
This has reference to your fax of 4th November '94 received here on 9th
November '94. We note with regret the suo moto decision of IDA to suspend
disbursement under Credit No. 1923-IN for expenditures with respect to Storm Water
Drainage Scheme (STOWAD) in Madurai as of November 3rd 1994.
This is the first fax received by us from IDA conveying the suspension of
withdrawals even before ascertaining from the proiect authorities the ground realities.
STOWAD is an offshoot of a constancy study culminating in a program which is a
relatively minor component of TNUDP costing only Rs.3 crores. Hence the threat of total
suspension if implemented amounts to nothing but keeping the entire project costing
Rs.633 crores on hold. This could have serious repercussion on the implementation of
remaining programmes in this project with far reaching consequences.
First of all it is incorrect to quote that the displacement of the illegal encroachers
on the STOWAD courses was undertaken in just 2 days. The IDA had failed to verify
with the Madurai Corporation which spared no efforts to convey the displaced people
partly to a nearby location which is hardly 2.5 kms. and partly in another location which
is 5 kms. from the city boundary and within easy reach of the city and with abundant
transport facilities. Reasonable time was given to the encroachers to facilitate them to
move out before taking up the implementation of the scheme. IDA should realise that
1700 hhs could not have been moved or evicted in just 2 days time in two different
locations without inviting a public outcry as was evident from the people's reactions in
the press reports (a sample of the press report was dispatched to you). However while
displacing the people the local body provided conveyance facilities for the displaced
persons for shifting their belongings and they were also provided food packets till they
settled down. The relocation sites do have adequate transportation facilities into the city.
The displaced persons were provided an interim cash compensation of Rs.500 each and
adequate kerosene.
Secondly it is also incorrect to state that the project authorities started
implementation without the final approval of IDA. We request you to refer to the extract
of Aide Memoires listed below:
"The following understandings were reached between the Mission, PMG and
Madurai Municipal Corporation
(a) Concentrating on desilting, regarding and minor structural repairs to the
major channels (including key lengths of old PWD irrigation canals which



6
now form part of the City's drainage svstem) within the existing public rights
of way.
(b) Having the Corporation undertake the desilting and regrading works under
force account procedures as agents for PWD. The Corporation has already
acquired two excavators through MUDF and is using them for drain desilting.
They are unable to use them efficiently due to lack of trucks (the excavators
take 3-4 minutes to fill one truck, the truck takes more than one hour to
complete a return trip to the disposal site). The Corporation estimates that
about 30% of the drainage channels within the priority schemes will be
inaccessible for mechanical desilting. These areas would be desilted using
contracted labour. The silt removed would be carried to the closest point of
vehicle access for loading onto trucks which would transport the silt to the
Corporation's landfill site for disposal or, if proved suitable and free of
pollutants, for sale to farmers for soil enrichment.
(c) PWD would be the implementing agency for the project, would purchase the
necessary vehicles and equipment undertake all associated civil works using
procurement procedures acceptable to IDA.
(d) The Corporation would undertake to maintain the whole drainage system
within the corporation area in perpetuity. This was said to be acceptable to
PWD who would assign the necessary vehicles and equiprment to them.
There is adequate space and equipment for daily/weekly maintenance and
cleaning in the Corporation's workshop. All other regular and preventative
maintenance and repairs are carried out by local agency garages". Aide
Memoire March 1993
From the above extract of Aide Memoires you may notice that the project
implementation was taken only with the IDA's concurrence. We have also conveyed to
IDA the GTN's decision on the implementation of the scheme at which point of time
there was no reaction from IDA to stop the implementation. The above statements will
also go to show that there has been no ineligible claims made on this account.
Progranime implementation will have to be completed before the closure of the credit
which is fast approaching. Rehabilitation measures of the displaced persons has to be
done with lot of imagination and care should be taken that the benefits reach the right
people and all measures of rehabilitation will have to be done within the legal framework
like land ownership, physical plan approvals, land use regulations etc., Given the desire
for land, it should be recognised that certain interest groups who had sponsored
candidates for resettlement will feel disgruntled and the project authorities should
consider the interest of the public at large in developmental programmes above
everything else. We are sure you would agree that the local implementation authorities
must be given due credit to have carried out the relocation of this magnitude without any
public outcry given the significant awareness of the relocated families. It is pertinent to
note that these encroachments have been the cause of recurrent flooding of many parts of



7
the city, as per the District Collector and Chairman of the CMC. To have gone ahead, on
hearsay and without verification and getting any explanation, to suspend the credit on this
component on the part of IDA is certainly arbitrary. The District Collector and Chairman
of CMC has also inforned us that the encroachments have been the cause of recurrent
flooding in many parts of the city. As a result of this, the Madurai District Development
Council Meeting have been informed about the need to remove these encroachments as
well as create public awareness that encroachments on public lands would not be
encouraged.
We would also like to state that while relocation and resettlement measures must
be in conformity with agreed parametres, they should also not result in a premium to the
land grabbers. Pursuant to the Mission's observations in AME March '93 we conveyed
to the Bank on 1. 11 .'94 that measures have been taken for rehabilitation of the
encroachers. There has been no public out cry. Civil Works are being commenced to
provide basic infrastructure facilities immediately. Further evictions have been stopped.
Considering all these aspects we request you to revoke the suspension with
immediate effect. We have no objection to receive the IDA Mission to discuss further
action to be pursued in this regard at a mutually convenient date.
(signed)
PROJECT DIRECTOR (TNUDP) &
MEMBER SECRETARY (PMG)
Govt. of Tamil Nadu.



-  Regd. Oce:
2163, Backbay Reclamat:
The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of indla Limited             -  Mumbal[400 020.
Tel.: Management 2025
Suneet K. Maheshwari -                               -en :f;'ce:2022535. Offi-
Crami:.CREDCCRP Mumi
Deputy Ge"neral Manager & -F-a-                                           -     Telex: 011:83062 ICICI 1
Head of Consulting Division                                                      -
Tel. No. 2826932
3 S 2t 9                                                              - Fax No. -2826934
February 13, 1998
Shri Rohit ModiT
Deputy Secretary (F8)
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finqnce
Govemment qf India
New Delhi 110 001
Dear Shri Modi,
Sub: Evaluation of TNUDF
Please refer to the meeting held in late 1997 in connection with TNUDF,
when it was suggested that a note on evaluation of the TNUDF be prepared jointly by
the participating institutions. Please find the same enclosed.
TNUDF is the first state level financial intermediary for funding urban
infrastructure projects and it has provided encouraging results in its short period of
operation. The institutions would continue to support TNUDF and similar efforts in the
area of municipal and urban infrastructure.
With kind regards,
Yjurs sincerely,
Encl. as above
-  ,zcc. . 1A~. H bco14 V$
St. h40 lfe-        '~~                     ~~



TAMILNADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT FUND (TNUDF)
(An Evaluation)
Brief Note
Tamilnadu lJrban Development Fund (TNUDF) was formed in 1996 by Government
of Tamilnadu (GoTN) in participation with ICICI, HDFC and IL&FS with active
support from The World Bank. TNUDF has been structured in the form a trust fund
with Tamilnadu Urban Infrastructure Trustee Company Limited (TNUITC) as its sole
corporate trustee, whereas the fund is being managed by Tamilnadu Urban
Infrastructure Financial Services Limited (TNUIFSL), a fund management company.
The main objective of the Fund is to finance Urban Infrastructure projects in the
state of Tamilnadu with a view to supporting urban and economic development.
TNUDF has been operating since November 1996 and has achieved encouraging
results. The World Bank is in the process of developing concept for the Phase II of
TNUDF project, under which it envisages an assistance of US $ 200 million to be
utilised over a period of five years. This note outlines brief evaluation of TNUDF by
the participating financial institutions, viz. ICICI, HDFC and IL&FS.
Background
Municipal Urban Development Fund (MUDF) of US $ 80 million was a component of
the Tamilnadu Urban Development Project (TNUDP) financed by International
Development Association (IDA). The programme was being implemented by Project
Management Group (PMG), set up in 1988, by the State Government of Tamilnadu
(GoTN). As on September 1996, MUDF had extended loans of about Rs 200 crores
to 74 urban local bodies (ULBs). The Bank, in line with its lending strategy, was
keen to create a self-standing financial intermediary based on MUDF by
restructuring TNUDP.
The World Bank funded MUDF project was reaching its terminal date with a
un-utilised balance of about US $ 27 Million in addition to its existing portfolio. The
Bank felt that this money and the experience gained could be used to restructure
and set up the said financial intermediary, to be run with private financial discipline
and management. The World Bank wanted this to be a pilot demonstration project
which could form the basis for commercialisation of urban infrastructure projects and
municipal finance in the country. This idea was institutionalised by setting up
TNUDF.
As mentioned earlier, the objectives of the Fund include, financing urban
infrastructure projects to be taken up by ULBs either independently or with private
sector participation through joint ventures and public - private partnerships. Eligible
borrowers comprise ULBs, statutory bodies, public sector undertakings and private
corporate sector. Eligible sectors include water supply, sanitation, solid waste
management, roads/bridges, transportation, sites and services and integrated area
1



development.  In addition, Grant Fund owned by GoTN is ailso managed by the
fund management company. Grant Fund is primarily used for project preparation by
ULBs and Training of personnel from these ULBs.
Performance
While it is too eady to judge the performance of the restructured fund, TNUDF has
provided encouraging results, so much so that the Fis are encouraged to with the
prospects of looking at urban infrastructure finance more actively.  Since its
incorporation in November 1996, TNUDF has approved loans of about Rs 118
crores and grants of Rs 18 crores to more than 17 borrowers (till September 30,
1997). Projects financed so far include commercial shopping complexes, solid
waste management, roads, street lighting, parks, etc. Grants have been provided
mainly as technical assistance towards computerisation of accounts of ULBs to
improve financial management capabilities as also towards computerisation of
various records for public needs. Grants blended with loans from the Fund have
benefited the projects (would not be normally commercially viable) which are located
in the areas where the urban poor are living.
Private Sector Participation & Projects Development
TNUDF, with its limited human resources, has initiated steps to develop projects for
private sector participation. TNUDF has developed the first BOT bridge in India to
be undertaken by an ULB (Karur Municipality) at an estimated cost of Rs 16 crores.
TNUDF is in process of developing more than five BOT projects which are at
different stages. TNUDF is also developing the first toll road by an ULB, i.e. 27 km
Madurai by-pass of Rs 35 crores which would be a public private partnership project.
Madurai Corporation would auction out toll collection at the end of 2 year
construction period. The proposed project structure allows benefits to flow directly to
Madurai Corporation, without recourse to the Corporation's cash flows.
It is a well recognised fact that project development requires considerable time and
efforts. On the other hand, project structuring skills available vwith ULBs are at far
from satisfactory level. Taking into the consideration the totall human resources
available with TNUDF, the results achieved in developing these two projects are
commendable. In order to increase the project development efforts TNUDF. will
have to form a core group of officials with requisite background through suitable
training.
Organisational Structure
As mentioned earlier, TNUDF (the Fund) is managed by a separate fund
management company in the style of TNUIFSL. TNUIFSL is managed by the Board
of Directors from GoTN and FIs with Secretary, MAWS, being its Chairperson. The
day to day activities are co-ordinated by a lean management team of 4 professionals
and support staff led by CEO, Mr Rajivan Krishnaswamy. While the skills of the
present team are being enhanced, certain specific professionals need to be inducted
2



(e.g. Company Secretary cum Financial Controller) at the earliest. It may be
essential to strengthen the project development function preferably by creating a
'dedicated team' for the purpose.
Technical evaluation of the projects/contracts developed by ULBs could be
conducted with assistance of external experts (by out-sourcing the work) in the initial
period. Eventually, as the activity builds up, in-house technical team needs to be
developed for such evaluations. Fis have been instrumental in providing inputs for
improving the quality of the present credit appraisal format. Capacity to manage
foreign exchange risk (in case of direct lending by multilateral agency to TNUDF)
needs to be built within the institution by augmenting skills over a period.
Participating Fls could provide need based support in the short term in this area of
operation.
MUDF was being managed by the PMG and continuity has been maintained after
restructuring by deputing some of the PMG staff to TNUDF. This has helped smooth
transition.
Policy directions for the fund are provided by the board of directors of the trustee
company, chaired by the Chief Secretary, GoTN. While both the boards have
majority of the GoTN nominees, appropriate changes could be effected as the
institution achieves critical mass.
Role of the World Bank
The World Bank has been lending in the urban infrastructure sector in India through
various urban development programmes of select states (e.g.. Maharashtra &
Tamilnadu). The Bank initiated steps to restructure existing urban infrastructure
fund and invited private financial institution to participation. The catalytic role of the
Bank has helped giving fillip to this emerging sector. This effort of the Bank has led
to formation of the first intermediary in India and is being seen as a breakthrough in
the sector. The institution thus established needs to be nurtured further by the
Bank.  The Bank had taken similar steps in the past to nurture industrial
development in India.
The Bank could consider implementing similar efforts in other progressive states,
which eventually give inputs for establishing national level facility.  Innovative
institutional mechanisms could be considered while implementing further initiatives
in other states.
GoTN Support
Tamilnadu being one of the progressive states in the country, GoTN took initiative in
the formation of new intermediary for funding urban infrastructure projects to be
undertaken by ULBs. GoTN not only supported restructuring of existing MUDF but
also deputed some of the key staff from PMG to TNUDF. GoTN has demonstrated
commitment to this initiative by appointing its nominees on the boards of both
trustee company and asset management company. Active participation of its
3



nominees provides guidance and direction for the newly developing organisation.
GoTN has been strengthening ULBs through training and other programmes under
Technical Assistance (Grant Fund).
Role of the participating FIs
Participating Fis viz. ICICI, HDFC and IL&FS, have actively supported the formation
of the TNUDF, the first intermediary of its kind. ICIC0 acts as the "lead institutionn
and has been co-ordinating activities related to TNUDF with theb other participating
institutions. The Institutions have been closely associated with the each step in the
process of formation of the Fund including negotiations.  The institutions also
provided important inputs for finalising legal structure of the institution. Considerable
senior level time has been devoted for formation of TNUDF and the institutions
continue to provide guidance through their nominees on the Boards. The lead
institution has deputed two its officials and two support staff to TNUDF. The
institutions continue to provide inputs. for improving quality of appraisals of projects
brought before the Boards for approvals. The institutions have committed to plough
back their dividends to trust fund in the first three year of operations of TNUDF. The
participating institutions would be willing to co-finance commercially viable urban
infrastructure projects in future. FIs have been providing inputs to TNUDF for project
development and structuring.  Participating Fis would continue their support to
TNUDF.
Conclusions
The first state level financial intermediary for funding urban infrastructure projects
has been established in the form of TNUDF. TNUDF has demonstrated encouraging
results in its limited period of operation. The intermediary needs further support in
terms of long term funds from multilateral and bilateral institutions for it to play its
role effectively. The institution needs to strengthen itself in the areas such as project
development and structuring, technical evaluation and forex risk management. Role
of GoTN has been supportive and its involvement and initiative has helped TNUDF.
TNUDF would continue to get support from participating Fls in the future.
Participating Fis would look forward to similar experiments in other states.
4



MAP SECTION



IBRD 20554R
780                                  79-                                 B0F,7ll
I N  D  I A                                                                                                                            ....oe  00  tP  ;t S
TAMIL NADU URBAN
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                   ANDHRA PRADESH
URBAN AGGLOMERATIONS
URBAN AGGLOMERATIONS UNDER THEToKmo
S PROECTA AD THEIR POPULATIONS      o r                 /                  S-                    4
P A  SELECTED TOWNS
 STATE CAPITAL
ROADS
.RAILROADS
RIVERS
STATE BOUNDARIES                                           Kris tur                                A
/1-DHARMAPURI\                              -YTIiruvanamafI 
'CIRCLE SIZES APPROXIMATE THE RELATIVE                                                                           i
PPLTOSOF THE PROJECT TOWNS                                      harmapuri-7
SALEM (OT                   RO
NILII                       Ilvn                                                                           vri'd~EIia 
%*Udagamo29l1
I  Amcrcvoh  --.      '~  Tiruhchir
To Tric0hur(                                                                                        A  I-'-  fl-anjvu  r AX MVU
KERALA         S    ~MADURA[
APRIL 1998



