Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
6-2  / q 2 3- /A/
Report No. 7152-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
TAIL NADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 18, 1988
Population, Human Resources,
Urban and Water Operations Division
Country Department TV
Tlhis douent has a resticted dItbution mad may be used by rdpienS onb In the perornianc_ of |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                    Rupee (Rs)
Rs 13.00                         US$1.00
Rs 1 million                     US$76,923
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
m          -  meter (3.2808 feet)
km         -  kilometer (0.6214 miles)
m2         -  square meter (10.7639 feet)
ha         -  hectare (2.4711 acres or 10,t'00 square meters
lcd        -  liters per capita day (0.2642 US gallons per day)
Rs 1 lakb  -  Rs 100,000
Rs 1 crore -  Rs 10 million
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CMC     -  City Management Committees
DOH     -  Department of H^alth
DHRW    -  Department of Highways and Rural Works
DMA     -  Directorate of Municipal Administration
DSW     -  Department of Social Welfare
DOT     -  Department of Transport
DTCP    -  Directorate of Town and Country Planning
EC      -  Empowered Committee
EWS     -  Economically Weaker Sections
FOP     -  Financial and Operating Program
GOI     -  Government of India
GN'N    -  Government of Tamil Nadu
GUD     -  Guided Urban Development
HEL     -  Home Expansion Loans
HDFC    -  Housing Development Finance Corporation
HIG     -  High Income Group
HPPC    -  High Powered Policy Committee
HUD     -  Department of Housing and Urban Development
LAND    -  Land Servicing Program
LASER   -  Land Sharing/Readjustment
LCS     -  Lease-cum-sale Tenure Agreements
LIG     -  Low Income Group
MASCOT  -  Hadurai, Salem, Coimbatore and Trichy Municipalities
MMA     -  Madras Metropolitan Area
4MC     -  Madras Municipal Corporation
NMDA    -  Madras Metropolitan Development Authority
MAWSD   -  Department of Municipal Administration and Water Supply
MIG     -  Middle Income Group
MOMS    -  Madras Outer Municipalities
MUDF    -  Municipal Urban Development Fund
MUDP    -  Madras Urban Development Projects
NSDP    -  Net state domestic product
OAP     -  Operational Action Plan
PTC     -  Pallavan Transport Corporation
PWD     -  Public Works Department
SIP     -  Slum Improvement Program
SUDAR   -  State Urban Development Authority
TNHB    -  Tamil Nadu Housing Board
TNSCB   -  Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board
TWAD    -  Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board
ULCA    -  Urban Land Ceiling Act
VETTT   -  Vellore, Erode, Tirunelveli,Tuticorn and Tirippur Municipalities
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



INDIA                        FOR OMCL4L USE ONLY
TAMIL NADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers       India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:  Government of Tamil Nadu (GTNI, Tamil Nadu Housing and Slum
Clearance Boards, Pallavan (Bus) Transport Corporation and
over 80 local governments in Tamil Nadu.
Amount:         SDR 216.5 million (US$ 300.2 million equivalent).
Terms:          Standard, with 35 years maturity.
Relending       From Government of India to Government of Tamil Nadu:  As
Terms:        part of central assistance to states for development projects
on terms and conditions applicable at the time.
From Government of Tamil Nadu to Implementing Agencies:
GTE would onlend to the Housing and Slum Clearance Boards,
the Pallavan Transport Corporation, and the Municipal Urban
Development Fund at a rate of interest not less than Tamil
Nadu's borrowing rate from the Government of India, or 10-12X
per year, whichever is greater, with no grace period on prin-
cipal repayments except for the Urban Development Fund. Tamil
Nadu would provide grants to the Urban Development Fund and
the Slum Clearance Board, amounting to 40Z and 50%
respectively, of each agency's funds from the State.
From Implementing Agency to Beneficiaries:
The plot and home improvement loans of the Housing and Slum
Clearance Boards and the Urban Development Fund loans to
municipalities would be at a rate of interest not less than
the agencies' borrowing rate from the Covernment of Tamil
Nadu, or 12Z per year, whichever is greater, with no grace
period. Depending on the income group, downpayments on plot
purchases by those Boards would range from 10-100% of the
purchase price and repayment periods would range from five to
20 years. The Urban Development Fund could provide up to 75Z
of its funding to a municipality as grants, depending on the
municipality's resource mobilization capacity and effort and
service needs and costs.
All technical assistance would be in the form of grants.
Project         The main aims of the project are to: strengthen the functioning
Description:    of urban institutions involved with the delivery of urban services
and the implementation of urban investments; improve shelter
for 176,000 families; and increase the efficiency of the urban
transportation system. Toward these aims, the project would
include the following components for 10 cities:
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance I
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wodd Bank authorzation.



(a) Institutional. (i) A new Municipal Urban Development
Fund to fund equipment and civil works, maintenance and
delivery of services and remunerative enterprises, primarily
in 80 municipalities. (ii) Technical Assistance, training
and related equipment for project coordinating and implement-
ing agencies. (b) Shelter. (i) Construction of serviced
residential plots, core housing and community facilities and
provisions of shelter loans for about 70,000 low-income
households. (ii) Guided Development involving the public
purchase of about 7,000 serviced plots from private developers
for resale with plot and home expansion loans to low income
families, and provision of off-site infra-structure and com-
munity facilities. (iii) Construction of on- and off-site
infrastructure, provision of tenure and community facilities
to improve neighborhoods containing about 94,000 households on
public and private land.  (c)  Traffic Management and
Transport. (i) Construction and improvement of roads,
bridges, signals and pedestrian facilities. (ii) Support for
the Pallavan Transport Corporation's Five-Year investment
program, to procure about 1,000 buses and related civil works
and equipment including depots, terminals, a major workshop
and passenger shelters.
Risks:         The project faces four main risks.  The first concerns the
capacity of the agencies involved with project implementation
to manage a multi-component project in a number of cities and
a new financial intermediary. Offset against this risk is the
successful experience of the project implementing agencies
under earlier IDA-funded projects, the early establishment of
project management institutions, and the development of agreed
criteria for managing the Urban Development Fund. Secondly,
there has also been some difficulty in implementing cost
recovery policies on schedule and in making sound projections
of the costs and revenues of key project entities. In the
shelter and bus transport components, the use of conservative
assumptions regarding revenues and costs and the establishment
of a new institution for revising bus fares on a systematic
basis will help to mitigate against this risk. Thirdly, there
could also be unforeseen obstacles,to implementing new shelter
initiatives involving the private sector. To reduce this
risk, early contacts were initiated with private parties, from
whom favorable reactions have been obtained. Finally, many
urban projects have faced delays in acquiring land for sites
and services programs. So as to minimize the risk, 67Z of the
land for the sites and services component has already been
acquired.



-iii-
Estimated Costss 1/                                  Local     Foreign    Total
…----- (US$ million)…
Municipal Urban Development Fund                  84.4        0.4       84.8
Sites and Services (LAND) Development            106.0        7.3      113.3
Guided Development                                 6.7        0.1        6.8
Slum Improvement                                  20.1        1.6       21.8
Traffic Management and Transport                  42.0        3.9       45.9
Bus Service (Pallavan Transuort Corp.)            25.6        2.1       27.7
Design. Supervision and Management                24.5        1.9       26.4
!          Total Base Cost                                   309.4      17.3       326.7
Physical Contingencies                            24.1        1.3       25.4
Price Contingencies                               86.8        4.8       91.7
Total Project Costa a/                           420.3       23.4      443.7
a/  Inclusive of taxes and duties of
US$23.9 million.
Financing Plan: 1/                                  Local      Foreign      Total
-(Us$ million)   --
IDA                                              276.8        23.4       300.2
Government of Tamil Nadu and
Internal Cash Generation                       143.5           -       143.5
Total                                            420.3        23.4       443.7
Disbursements: I/
IDA FY           FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96
Annual           18.0    44.9    56.0    60.6    61.6    40.1    16.0       3.0
Cumulative       18.0    62.9   118.9   179.5   241.1   281.2   297.2   300.2
Economic Rate
of Return:    On components representing 74 Z of total project costs:
Sites and Services and Slum Improvement - 20Z per year;
Bus Augmentation - 21% per year;
Bus Replacement - 12X per year; and,
Traffic Management and Transport - 12% or more.
On other components: Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal
Report:       Report No. 7152-IN dated May 18, 1988
Maps:           IBBD Nos. 20554, 20555, 20556, 20557, 20558, 20559 and 20560
1/ Numbers may not tally exactly because of rounding.



-iv..
INDIA
TAMIL NADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  Sector Background  ..... .*.... ....... ... .*    ............* *      1
A.  Introduction  ....I*............ .....*......**                    1
B.  India - National Urban Trends and Management  ...........          1
C.  Economic and Urban Trends in Tamil Nadu .................          3
D.  Key Sectoral Issues in Tamil Nadu ....         ...................  6
E.  Urban Strategy and Initiatives        ..........................   7
F.  The Bank's Sector Role and Strategy in India         ...........   8
II.  The Project  .......       .........................................  10
A.  Project Origins           ................................. ...   10
B.  Project Rationale           ............................... ... .  10
C.  Project Approach                     .................. .         10
D.  Project Objectives  ..*.................. ...........             11
E.  Project Description            ....................................  12
III.  Project Costs and Finencing             ................................  17
A.  Cost Estimates  .........................................         17
B.  Financing Plan                       ...                          18
IV.  Resource Mobilization, Pricing and Affordability  ...........         20
A* Cost Recovery ............... .                                    20
B.  Resource Mobilization           ....................... .........  21
C.  Pricing and Affordability  ......       ........................  21
This report is based on the findings of pre-appraisal and appraisal missions
which visited Tamil Nadu in July and October 1987, respectively, and on the
contributions of GTN's Project Management Group for the Tamil Nadu Urban
Development Project, the Madras Metropolitan Development Authority, and GTN
and its project implementing agencies. The pre-appraisal and appraisal
missions consisted of Messrs. Evan Rotner (IDA), and Brian Grievson, Brian
Parker, V.K. Phatak, Michael Whitbread (Consultants). Mr. Brian Ellis
(Consultant) assisted at pre-appraisal. Ms. Vivian Mendoza assisted in
Washington, D.C.



- v
Page No.
V.  Project Management and Implementation           ......................  26
A.  Project Management and Implementation  ..................       26
B.  Implementation Arrangements          ............................  31
Co Procurement                ..............*                       33
D.  Disbursement  cc     .........................................  35
E.  Accounts and Audits  ..............................O            36
F.  Monitoring and Evaluation  ..............................       37
G.  Supervision  ..........**.*******.* *********************       37
H.  Environment and Relocation  ............      .................  37
VI.  Project Justification  ........        .......................e..   38
A.  Benefits  ............................ .......e.e ........      38
B.  Impact on the Poor  *        ...................................  39
C.  Economic Evaluation  .. ..................................      40
D.  Risks and Safeguards ....................................       40
VII.  Agreements Reached and Recommendations  .....     ................  41
Annexes:
1.  Slum Households in the MMDA - Income Distribution (1987) ....        43
2.  Growth of Urban Population in Tamil Nadu  ........ ...........       44
3.  Shelter Strategies in the MMA - Madras and Madurai       .........   45
4.  Operational Action Plan (OAP)           ..............................  46
5.  Technical Assistance Studies, Training and Equipment  ........       55
6.  Outline Checklist for Design of Engineering Inputs in
LAND and SIP Schemes                     ....                        58
7.  Sequence of Engineering and Planning Activities for
Preparation of LAND Design Brief           ...........................  61
8.  LAND Scheme Standards and Specifications          ...................  63
9.  Guided Urban Development Guidelines           ........................  65
10.  SIP Planning and Service Standards           .........................  69
11.  Short List of TRAMP Schemes           ................................  70
12.  Guidelines on Feasibility Studies of TRAMP Schemes       ..........  71
13.  Cost Estimates and Phasing            ................................  73
14.  Prices, Cost Recovery, Affordability and Land Use  ..........        75
15.  Estimated Disbursement Schedule           ...........................  77
16.  Management Information System ..............................         78
17.  Urban Poverty Impact  cc...... ............................          80
18.  List of Selected Documents in the Project File        ............   81
Charts:
1.  Low Cost Sanitation (LOCOSAN) Algorithm  .e..ec.eeeeecccec           83
2.  Slum Improvement Program (SIP) Implementation Acttivities  ..        84
3.  Guided Urban Development (GUD) Scheme Sanctioning Activities         85
4.  Land Sharing/Readjustment (LASER) Implementation Activities          86
5.  Project Flow of Funds  ......c.eeccc.ceeeecceeccceeeceeece           87



-vi-
Page No.
maps:
IBRD No. 20554:  Urban Agglomerations
20555:  Madras Metropolitan Area and the Locations of
Major Project Components
20556:  Urban Agglomerations: Salem and Madurai
20557:  Urban Agglomerations: Coimbatore and Tiruchchirappalli
20558:  Slum Improvements: Typical Details for Land in Public
and Private Ownership (for Landsharing/Readjustment)
20559:  Land Use and Infrastructure: Madras-Ambattur Sites
and Services Scheme
20560:  Land Use and Infrastructure: Coimbatore-Ganapathy Sites
and Services Scheme
List of Tables and Charts in the Main Body of the Report:
Chapter I:
Chart 1.1: Income Distribution in Urban Areas, Sites and
Services (LAND) Schemes and Slums (October 1987) ...  5
Chapter II:
Table 2.1:  The Project - Summary DescripEion        .................  12
Chapter III:
Table 3.1:  Summary Cost Estimates         .............................  17
Table 3.2:  Summary Sources and Applications of Funds     ......... 19
Chapter IV:
Table 4.1:  Cost Recovery Plan          ................................  20
Table 4.2:  Sites and Services Pricing, Cost Recovery
and Affordability (Ambattur)         ......................  22
Table 4.3:  SIP Pricing Affordability and Cost Reco.ery  ....... 25
Chapter V:
Chart 5.1:  Project Management and Responsibilities  ............   28
Table 5.1:  Procurement Arrangements         ..........................  33



INDIA
TAMIL NADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
I. Sector Background
A. Introduction
1.01    The proposed project would be the fifth IDA-assisted project in the
urban and water sectors in the State of Tamil Nadu. It would build on the
lessons learned over the past 10 years in the execution of those projects.
Its main aims are to: strengthen the functioning of urban institutions
involved with th.i delivery of urban services and the implementation of urban
investments; improve shelter for 176,000 families; and increase the
efficiency of the urban transportation system.
1.02    Following upon earlier experiences, the project would have a number
of special features. First, it would have a major impact on the poor by
assisting in making affordable housing avsilable to about 580,000 people
living below the poverty line. Second, the project would continue recent
efforts in India to finance an urban program oriented toward all of the major
cities of a state, rather than just a single city.  Third, the project would
assist in developing financial intermediaries which could coordinate urban
sector investments over time.  Fourth, the project would put a major emphasis
on cost recovery, the self-financing of key activities, and the operation
along commercial lines of public sector enterprises. Lastly, it would
promote private sector involvement in shelter development and a further
rationalization of the public and private sectors in urban activities.
B. India - National Urban Trends and Management
1.03    India's urban population is growing rapidly.  It increased from 107
million, or 20Z of the total in 1971, to 159 million, or 24% of the total, in
1981. In addition, the 3.9Z per year rate of urban population growth in the
1970s exceeded the 3.3Z rate in the 1960s. By the year 2000, India's urban
population is expected to be 325 million, twice the 1981 level, and more than
half of India's population growth will occur in urban areas.
1.04   There is a growing realization in India that urban and economic
development are linked and that past efforts to contain urban growth may have
been counterproductive. More appropriate urban development policies and the
strengthening of the institutions for managing urban growth are being given
higher priority by the Government of India (GOI) and state governments, with
three main objectives: to support the expanding urban economy, to alleviate
urban poverty, and to improve living conditions, particularly for the low
income majority of the population.
1.05   Within these objectives, the state governments, who have primary
responsibility for urban development, are beginning to emphasize four urban
policy themes: increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of resource
utilization, improving pricing, cost recovery and local resource



-2-
mobilization, rationalizing the allocation of urban responsibilities between
the private and public sector, and strengthening public sector management.
1.06    Resource Utilization.  Design standards are being modified and more
affordable and lower cost technologies are being adopted for public sector
land development, water supply, sanitation, transport and other municipal
services. These measures expand coverage, increase CoSt recovery and reduce
sector subsidies. It is also recognized that existing facilities must be
better utilized, which requires improved maintenance and more efficient
operations such as reduced leakage and wastage in water supply systems,
improved traffic management and more efficient bus operatioos.
1.07    Considerable progress has been made in improved resource utilization.
Affcrdable and replicable epproaches have been identified and are being
incorporated into individual investment projects and into some state-wide
investment programs.  Howaver, widespread application is hampered by weaknes-
ses in resource mobilization and sector management. In addition, while goo.
progress is being made in making new investments more cost-effective,
progress is slower in improving the operation and maintenance of existing
facilities.
1.08    Resource Mobilization.  Action to improve resource mobilization in
the urban sector is under way in three principal areas.  First, full cost
recovery from beneficiaries is increasingly accepted in the pricing of public
sector land and housing, although interest rates and prices remain low,
except in Bank-supported projects where interest of 12% per year or more and
market prices are being charged. Second, the principle of full cost recovery
is also becoming acceptable in tariff setting for public utilities such as
water supply, sewerage and transport. Third, progress is starting to be made
in Bank-assisted projects in the mobilization of general municipal revenues,
particularly from property taxes.
1.09    The mobilization of addit .onal municipal tax revenues, increasingly
stressed by GOI and state governments, requires that comprehersive programs
be designed and implemented to address a number of inter-related,
administratively-complex and politically sensitive issues, including mapping
and land registration, property value assessments, rate setting, billing and
collection. Property taxes, assessed usually on rental values, are kept
artificially low in some cities because of rent control. Hence, a new basis
for property valuation, or rent control reforms, is required and both of
these are being caut4ously pursued by GOI and some state governments.
1.10    Sector Management.  The GOI is taking several measures to strengthen
sector management and to build a coherent urban policy at central, state and
local (municipal) levels. At the central level, the concerned GOI ministry
was reorganized in 1985 and renamed the Ministry of Urban Development
(formerly Works and Housing) to reflect the emerging emphasis on urban
policy. In addition, the role of the existing Housing and Urban Development
Corporation of India (HUDCO) may be expanded. GOI is also establishing a
national Urban Infrastructure Finance Corporation to provide financial and
policy support to state governments and sector agencies. Lastly, a National
Housing Bank has been recently established.



-3-
1.11    Some progress has also been made in strengthening sector management
at the State level. In most states, agencies now exist for housing, water
supply and sanitation. However, they are essentially construction agencies
whose capacity for broader sector planning and management is being
strengthened in only a few states. An adjustment in their mandate and out-
look is required. Equally important, state governments themselves need to be
better organized and staffed to plan for economic development and to address
urban sector issues and opportunities as part of their economic development
programs rather than as isolated physical planning subjects.
1.12    At the municipal level, less progress in strengthening sector manage-
ment has been made. State Governments have previously adopted relatively
centralized approaches to local issues, preferring to carry out development
programs through state level bodies. This has frequently led to their
bypassing and weakening local governments and private initiatives. There is
a growing realization that a more decentralized approach must be adopted if
the management, investment and maintenance requirements of India's 3,500
cities and towns are to be met. Local initiative and local resources must be
stimulated and mobilized to a greater extent than has been the case to date.
This is a major policy theme of the Seventh Plan. In addition, valuable
experience has been gained and new policies and approaches have been demon-
strated through Bank-supported projects.
1.13    Rational Allocation of Sector Responsibilities.  There are two sub-
sectors in which the role of the private sector needs to be strengthened in
India: shelter and urban transport. In shelter, it is now generally
accepted that house construction itself should be left to the private sector,
with the public sector focusing on the provision of trunk infrastructure and,
selectively, on land assembly and on-site infrastructure for low-income
households and small businesses. The need to adjust the legal and financial
framework accordingly is beginning to be accepted and adjustments are being
considered and introduced such as reform of rent control regulations
applicable to the private sector, strengthening of housing finance institu-
tions and revision of development regulations. In transport, there is
limited although growing acceptance by some states of the need to liberalize
licensing policies toward private bus operators.
C. Economic and Urban Trends in Tamil Nadu
1.14    Population and Economy.  The State of Tamil Nadu (TN) is located in
Southeastern India and has an area of 130,000 km2.  With a population of
about 50 million people, Tamil Nadu is among the most populous states. It
has a literacy rate of about 43%, which is one of the highest in India, and a
population growth rate of about 1.6% per year, which is one of the lowest in
India.
1.15    Tamil Nadu ranks about third among Indiei states in industrial value
added, gross output and employment. Compared to earlier years, the growth of
manufacturing activity in TN slowed in the 1970s and 19809. However, it
still grew at a real rate of about 5% per year, exceeding the 4.7Z rate in
India as a whole.  Manufacturing's share of Net State Domestic Product
increased from about 26% to 40% over the last decade.



-4-
1.16    Tamil Nadu ranks second and third in the amount of fertilizer used
per acre of cropped area and percent of cropped area irrigated. However,
most surface and underground sources of water have been exploited. Partly as
a consequence, agricultural production stagnated in the last decade. In
addition, low and erratic rainfall in the State adversely affects water and
power supply for residential, agricultural and industrial use. Although
declining slowly, over 60% of the labor force remains in agriculture.
1.17    For increasing  employment and income, little can be expected from
agriculture, unless there were to be a major shift in productivity, methods
and crops. Instead, Tamil Nadu must rely on the manufacturing and services
sector to improve its economy. Those activities are mainly located in urban
areas and their growth and efficiency are intimately linked to the efficiency
of urban services.
1.18    Because of the above factors, the Net State Domestic Product which
was fifth highest in India in 1976/77, slipped to seventh by 1981/82. Real
per capita income also practically stagnated from 1971 to 1981, putting Tamil
Nadu among the poorest states in 1984/85 with a per capita income of Rs 160.
About 30 -40% of urban and rural households and 70% of slum households have
incomes below the poverty line (Chart 1.1 and Annex 1).
1.19    Urbanization.  Tamil Nadu is the second most urbanized state with
about 331 of its population living in cities. It is also among the most
densely populated states with 3.7 people per hectare. It is forecast that
50Z of TN's population will be living in urban areas by 2001. About 461 of
the urban population live in the stato's five largest cities: Madras,
Coiu"hatore, Madurai, Trichy and Salem; another 18% live in the next five
biggest urban agglomerations with populations between 200,000 and 500,000
(Annex 2 and Map 20554).
1.20    The 4 million population Madras Metropolitan Area, growing at a rate
of about 3.1X annually (1971-81), is the fourth largest metropolitan area of
India (Map 20555). The value of import-export traffic in Madras port, also
the fourth largest in India, has been growing rapidly and is equivalent to
about 401 of net state domestic product.
1.21    Overall urban growth in Tamil Nadu from 1971-81 slowed to 2.5Z per
year compared to 3.3Z per year in 1961-71, reflecting the slowdown in the
state economy and possibly the decreasing capacity of the state's larger
cities to provide an efficient climate for business activity. Nonetheless,
municipal areas in the periphery of Madras are growing at the very rapid rate
of 5-12S per year. Population in the other four big cities of the State,
Coimbatore, Madurai, Trichy and Salem, is in the half to one million range
with growth rates of 2.3% to 2.81 per year (Maps 20556 and 20557).



-5-
Chart 1.1: Distribution of Urban Income in Madras and in
Sites and Service. (LAND) Schemes (1987)
2400
Accetabl Range of Household Income
Distbution in Sies and SerAces -heme
210Q       (grey area)
; 1800
Madras Household lncomen
g 158i  Distbution
Madras Slum Househo\ld
. 1200     Income Distribuion
Rs 1000(1.5 tmes poverty ls evl
60.Rs 500
300
I          I~~~    III           -
111111,111,11111111g1
10  20  30  40  50  60  70  80  90  100
Cumulatve Pecentage of Households
1.22    Urban Development Expenditure.  The Government of Tamil Nadu (GTN)
has pursued a prudent budgetary policy. Its own tax receipts are 12% of State
Domestic Product, among the highest in the country. Current expenditures are
below current revenues and the State normally has a budget surplus. The Plan
allocates 16% of its outlays to the water supply, housing and urban develop-
ment sector, which is the second highest Plan priority.
1.23    Municipal Income and Expenditure.  The total receipts of 106 Tamil
Nadu municipal Corporations and municipalities in 1985/86 were about Rs 135
crores - equivalent to about 10% of GTN's annual development plan
expenditure. Annual municipal receipts from all sources are in the range of
Rs 20 to 200 per capita, with an average of Rs 140 per capita. These are
very low, first, because property revaluations and significant increases in
the property tax were not permitted for a decade by the State government and
secondly because of inefficient tax collections and low user charges. With
this low level of income, the bulk of municipal expenditure has been on
salaries. Resources for development expenditure and maintenance of basic



-6-
services has been inadequate and have not been adequately supplemented from
other resources.
1.24    Excluding Madras and Coimbatore municipal corporations, the Rs 85
crores total receipts (1984/85) of other municipalities came 46% from their
own tax and non-tax resources, 13% from Government statutory and non-
statutory grants, 7%, from government loans, 1%, from loans from Banks and
the Life Insurance Corporation of India and 33% from other sources.
D. Key Sectoral Issues in Tamil Nadu
1.25    Overview.  Tamil Nadu has a capable civil service and relatively
effective functional agencies. However, rapid urban growth rates (para 1.18)
and declining urban services, low incomes, neglect of local government and
the finance and management of functional agencies, adverse geographic and
climatic conditions and weak natural resources threaten further improvements
in the environmental and economic welfare of the State. As noted earlier,
further socio-economic improvements in Tamil Nadu will need to be based
largely on the State's human resources, institutional capabilities and growth
in manufacturing and services, particularly in urban areas, and the introduc-
tion of stronger urban sector policies.
1.26    The major urban problems, many of which the Government of Tamil Nadu
is addressing, are noted below.
1.27    Institutions.  CTN institutions and funding for urban development
and policy planning and implementation are weak and over-centralized. State
urban planning has been physically-oriented with weak roots in economic
policy or investment programs. In addition, financial and organizational
capacity of local government for maintenance, services and development
administration has long been neglected. Municipal incomes are very low in
relation to municipal service obligations and investment requirements.
Provisions for cost recovery are also inadequate and the equitability of
prices for urban services needs reconsideration. Land acquisition problems
and delays in Departmental sanctions for some types of procurement have
repeatedly slowed project implementation. Lastly, public utilities and
municipalities are responsible to State departments with little capability
for assessing financial and operating performance. More effective arrange-
ments for maintaining the efficiency and accountability of public sector
operations and focusing programs on the objectives of the State's urban
development strategy are needed.
1.28    Shelter.  Provisions for land management and shelter finance are
poorly developed in relation to the rapid expansion in city needs. Existing
policies, sometimes propelled by the terms and conditions for interest rates
and prices of central funding agencies like HUDCO, subsidize higher income
groups and discriminate unintentionally against legal and affordable lower
income development.   Intended to allow Government to acquire land for
development at low cost for low income shelter development, the Urban Land
Ceiling and Regulations Act of 1976 did the opposite and stifled legal trans-
fers of land, increased land prices and generated a substantial amount of
illegal subdivision, mainly for middle and higher income plots. Second,
major long term shortages in the supply of serviced land and shelter, par-



-7-
ticularly for lower income families, have accumulated. Twenty five to 45Z of
the population of large cities, mostly in low income groups at or below the
poverty level of Rs 700 per household/month (US$54) in 1987, live in illegal
and environmentally-unacceptable slums. No improvements have been provided
to a large number of households in slums on privately-owned land and for
decades the legal supply of serviced land and housing has met only about 50X
of the need. Third, implementing agencies such as the Tamil Nadu Housing and
Slum Clearance Boards (TNHB and TNSCB) and the state highway department
(DHRW) have not focussed sufficiently on delivering economically-viable,
timely and cost-effective services to those most in need.
1.29    Transport. In Madras, due to past inadequate and tardy fare
increases and the State's reluctance to reimburse significant losses from
concessions to student bus riders, the GTN-owned bus company, Pallavan
Transport Corporation (PTC) had been unable to generate the resources to
procure buses and keep down overcrowding. In addition, road congestion
occurs because of poor traffic management and maintenance, missing system
links and a lack of coordination between land use and transport planning.
Inappropriate design standards and a lack of focus on solutions which give
priority to public transport and the movement of people has concentrated past
investments in capital-intensive schemes, sometimes worsening conditions for
the majority of road users in buses and slow-moving vehicles, or on foot, in
favor of a relatively small minority in cars and commercial vehicles.
1.30    Other Services.  The provisions for water supply and sanitation,
drainage, roads and solid waste collection do not meet even minimum
standards. In major cities, about 55Z of the population have public water
supply, but service levels are well below minimum levels of 90 and 30 litres
per capita per day for house connections and standpipe supply. Sewerage
systems are less developed than water supply, with only about 23Z of the
population having house connections and the rest depending on bucket
latrines, cesspit systems and public water ways and open spaces, which are a
threat to public health. Institutional arrangements and service conditions
in smaller cities are generally worse than in larger cities due to con-
straints on state and municipal management and investment resources.
1.31    Except for industrial location policy, the state's policies, programs
and institutions for steering urban growth into particular urban locations
are few and the logic for assigning priorities to one urban area over another
has been too simplistic. State taxes, iike the property tax, and pricing
policies, involving subsidies for urban services, have worked in the opposite
direction from locational policies.
E. Urban Strategy and Initiatives
1.32    Urban Development Strategy.  GTN assigns  highest priority to the
big four cities other than Madras: Madurai, Coimbatore, Trichy and Salem,
as counter-magnets to Madras, and has tended to locate public investment in
industry in them. The next highest priority is allocated to other medium-
sized cities in the over 100,000 population range, including Vellore and
Tirunelveli. Madras is assigned the least priority in the state's strategy,
despite its continuing growth and concentration of private industrial and
commercial activity.



-8-
1.33    GTh has drawn on the experience of the Madras Urban Development
Projects (MUDP I and II, para 1.38) to revise urban sector policies and to
lay the basis for implementing the proposed project. The Housing Board has
been directed to allocate the majority of its resources to low income shelter
development. The Slum Clearance Board's responsibilities for slum improve-
ment were extended to the whole state.
1.34    Many of the measures the State has also taken or will take in con-
junction with the proposed project are intended to strengthen state institu-
tions and improve resource mobilization and utilization as a whole, as noted
below.
(a) Institutional Strengthening. (i) An Empowered Committee (EC) has
been created to speed up procurement, land acquisition and other project
implementation aczivities. (ii) A Project Management Group, staffed with
senior-level officers, responsible to the Secretary Housing and Urban
Development, has been established. (iii) The staff of the Directorate of
Town and Country Planning to assist City Management Cormittees in project
planning, coordination and performance evaluation have been strengthened
(para 5.05). (iv) Legislation was passed in December 1987 to establish a
Managing Director post in the TNHB and senior planning and financial posi-
tions would be created to strengthen management of the Housing and Slum
Clearance Boards (OAP 1.01). 1/ (v) To speed up contract implementation, the
State has provided for price escalation clauses in civil works contracts over
Rs 20 lakhs and increased the size of contract packages.
(b) Resource Mobilization, Pricing and Cost Recovery. (i) The
State issued orders to revalue properties and substantially increase property
taxes in all municipalities, particularly including the Madras and Coimbatore
Municipal Corporations in December 1987. (ii) The Government of Tamil Nadu
has sanctioned bus fare revisions for PTC at levels required to cover costs
and generate adequate cash surpluses for the Corporation's investment
program. The State has also agreed to twice-yearly reimbursement of PTC
losses on State-mandated subsidized student fares. (iii) The State created a
Bus Fares Expert Committee to rationalize PTC*s fare-revision and investment
prograzming on an annual basis (OAP 6.03). (iv) Collections of charges in
slum areas have improved under MUDP I and II and reached 70Z of demand in
1987. 2/
F. The Bank's Sector Role and Strategy in India
1.35    The Bank's sector assistance strategy relied initially on specific
investment projects in individual cities: Calcutta, Madras, Bombay and
Kanpur. Such projects will continue to be included in the Bank's program,
but the focus is now shifting to projects which would assist state govern-
1/ All references to (OAP) are the Operational Action Plan for the
project, agreed at negotiations, and shown in Annex 4.
2/ MUDP I and II are hereafter referred to as MUDP.



-9-
ments to formulate and implement the urban sector policies set out by GOI,
provide direct staff support for the analysis of sector performance, provide
state incentives for more efficient municipal government and disseminate the
policy lessons and implementation experience from earlier projects.
1.36    To date, the Bank has committed US$1335 million and US$326 million,
net of cancellations in Credits and Loans respectively to support 22 urban
and water supply projects in India. Nine projects have been completed.
US$1235 million of credits and loans for 13 projects are being implemented.
1.37    Experience and Lessons.  Project completion reports have identified
four key lessons from the execution of urban and water projects in India, in
addition to those noted in paras 1.05-1.13. First, no provision was made for
the direct involvement of the private sector in sites and services land
development schemes. Second, improvements in investment programming and
inter-agency, inter-departmental coordination have been difficult to achieve.
Third, with the notable exception of Bombay, financidl objectives have not
been adhered to on schedule in transportation or water and sanitation.
Lastly, reforms in the management and accounting systems of implementing
agencies are difficult and require time to achieve.
1.38    Status of the Madras Urban Projects.  In over 10 years of involvement
with the Bank Group through the first and second Madras Urban Development
Projects, Tamil Nadu's general adherence to the efficiency and equity objec-
tives of the projects have been outstanding. About 50,000 low income
households in slum areas have received improvements and tenure and about
30,000 more, mostly low income households, are settled, or are in process of
settling, in sites and services schemes. In sites and services, plot pay-
ments collections have been maintained at over 90Z of demand for several
years and a capacity for self-financing has been convincingly demonstrated.
In addition, most of the main MUDP implementing agencies have steadily
improved their management and accounts and the Pallavan Transport Corporation
has been achieving its financial objectives since 1986.
1.39    The shelter and transport approaches of WUDP have earned a high level
of political credibility, perhaps best exemplified by the introduction of
State reforms based upon them. Physical investments are being implemented
satisfactorily under these projects, although in some cases more slowly than
indicated in appraisal schedules. Improvements in operations and maintenance
are being achieved in some cases, but more slowly than planned. Improvements
are also occurring in cost recovery and resource mobilization in most
projects, particularly in appropriate revisions of water tariffs, bus fares,
plot prices and interest rates and to a limited extent in property tax
revenues. Sector management is also being improved, but slowly. Although
the Second Madras Urban Development Project experienced problems with land
acquisition and bus fare revisions which led to a suspension of
disbursements, these were successfully resolved by the State.
1.40    Tamil Nadu has also performed well on other projects in the sector.
The Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Sanitation Project is progressing
satisfactorily, following initial delays in credit effectiveness, civil works
and management appointments. To support the Madras Water Supply and
Sanitation Project signed in December 1987t, GTN sanctioned large, long-



-10-
overdue increases in water rates, and introduced sewerage charges and
precedent-setting measures to regulate private ground water pumping.
Physical implementation is satisfactory and wells funded by the project
helped to blunt the effects of the 1987 drought.
II. The Project
A. Project Origins
2.01    The Government of Tamil Nadu completed a state urban sector study
as it became convinced of the merits of the shelter approaches of MUDP and
the need to address related problems of municipal services and urban
transport. The study became the basis for the inclusion of the proposed
project in GOI's program for IDA assistance. The project was mostly prepared
by the implementing agencies with the assistance, beginning in 1985, of local
consultants, particularly for the preparation of computerized financial and
operating models for municipalities, the Housing Board and the PTC. MUDP
technical assistance and training under the ongoing projects enhanced the
financial management and accounts of the agencies which will also implement
the proposed project. The State's efforts to improve sector policies and
recover some of the missing elements in the MUDP (paras 1.37 and 1.39) had a
long gestation period and were, from 1985, pursued in parallel with project
preparation.
B. Project Rationale
2.02    Through the proposed project IDA would support the Government of
India's strategic objectives for urban development: to sustain the expanding
urban economy; to alleviate urban poverty; and to improve living conditions.
The project would also develop State-level intermediaries to link with GOI's
newly-created national urban intermediaries, the National Housing Bank and
infrastructure Corporation (para 1.10). Through a long and successful
relationship with the State of Tamil Nadu in water and urban projects, the
Bank Group has been building its comparative advantage as a catalyst for
efficient and equitable resource utilization and mobilization, rationalized
public and private sector roles and improved sector management. The Bank
Group has helped to introduce affordable and replicable standards and tech-
nologies as well as effective management measures for public sector urban
development in Madras. The Bank Group is, therefore, well positioned to
assist Tamil Nadu in its efforts to improve and expand the Madras experience
to other large urban centers, to incorporate a larger degree of private
participation and to streamline project implementation.
C. Project Approach
2.03    The project would support a four to six year time slice of the major
activities to be financed. The first year of each agency's program was
appraised, as well as each agency's ability to manage prograh implementation
in accordance with project objectives, over the project period. Acting as
intermediaries, existing coordination agencies, such as the Madras
Metropolitan Development Authority (para 5.05) and new agencies, such as the
state Project Management Group (para 5.03) and the Municipal Urban
Development Fund (para 5.08), would appraise projects and programs in accord-



-ll-
ance with agreed Guidelines incorporated in prototypes for each component.
Over 50% of the value of the project would be implemented in Madras, where
MMDA has a well-established capability for project coordination and over 70%
of the value of the nroject would be implemented by agencies which have
proved their capacity to implement MUDP components which closely resemble
those of the proposed project.
2.04    The physical size and costs of each component are based on the
strategic objectives for each component (para 2.06). Five year supply and
demand projections for shelter in the largest cities (Annex 3) have estab-
lished the yearly physical contribution of the public sector to the shelter
supply, in the form of sites and services and slum improvement units,
required to stem the increase in the slum population and improve the legal
and environmental condition of at least 30% of the 1987 squatter population.
2.05    Computerized models have established medium-term financial, invest-
ment and operating programs (FOP) for the major implementing agencies and
municipalities on the basis of specific criteria for financial and operating
performance. An Operational Action Plan (OAP) has also been prepared, which
contains a number of actions to be undertaken during project implementation
(Annex 4). More details of the project, project implementing agencies, state
institutions for urban management and financial and operating programs of
implementing agencies are provided in the Project Implementation Report.
Assurances were given at negotiations that the Government of Tamil Nadu would
carry out the project substantially in accordance with the Operational Action
Plan. The operating programs and the action plan would serve as instruments
for monitoring the performance of key agencies during project implementation.
D. Project Objectives
2.06    Project objectives are focused on the three key areas noted in paras
1.04 to 1.13:
(a) Institutions. The project would improve GTN's state-wide
capacity for efficient management of urban and economic development, par-
ticularly by: (i) strengthening state urban financial and functional inter-
mediaries and allocating State resources to municipal maintenance and
services; (ii) increasing municipal capacity for urban management and invest-
ment programming and raising revenues for maintenance and services; and
(iii) streamlining procurement and implementation powers to increase the rate
of project implementation.
(b)  Shelter.  The project would increase the supply of legal,
environmentally-acceptable and affordable private and public serviced land by
a large scale extension of sites and services and slum improvement schemes.
Stemming the growth in the absolute number of households living in slums is
the main objective of this component.
(c) Transport. The project would: (i) strengthen the procedures
and institutions for revising bus fares and enhance the accountability of
the Pallavan Transport Corporation (PTC), with a view to producing sufficient
funds from internal cash generation to finance upwards of 20X of PTC's bus
operations investment program; and (ii) improve the identification and



-12-
implementation  of cost-effective urban road and traffic management  schemes
providing the highest priority to public transport and the movement of
people.
F. Project Description
2.07       The proposed project,  located  in Tamil  Nadu's  ten largest  urban
agglomerations would include the components shown in Table 2.1 and Chart 5.1
and detailed in paras 2.08 to 2.22.
Table 2.1: Summary Description
Rs     US$  % Of
A.  Institutional                                                          (crore) (million) Total
(l)  Municipal Urban Development Fund: loan and grant finandng for equipment and    167.2   127.0  29.0
civil works, maintenance and delivery of services and remunerative
enterprises, primarily in 80 municipalities In 10 project cities.
(ii) Technical Assistance. Training and related equipment for project coordinat-  13.7  9.6   2.2
Ing and implementing agendes. (1)
B.  Shelter -
(I)  Land Development: Construction of servlced residental plots, core housing  246.4   167.3  38.0
and community faciities and provision of shelter loans for about 70,000
primarily low-income households (350,000 people) In Tamli Nadu's 10
largest cities, Including Madras. Madural, Salem. Coimbatore and Trichy.
(Ii) Guided Development: Purchase In Madras of 7,000 low-income serviced plots  13.5   9.1   2.0
from private developers of 10,000 plots on 140 ha of land and provision of
off-site intra-structure, community facilities and home expansion lans.
(iii) Slum Improvement: Construction of on and off-site Infrastructure, provision  46.4    31.7   7.0
of tenure and community facilities for about 84.000 households on public
and 10,000 households on private land In 10 cities.
C. Transport
(I)  Traffic Management and Transport: Construction and improvement of roads.  100.3    68.3  15.0
bridges, signais and pedestrian faciles In 10 cities.
(I) Paliavan Transport Corporation: Provision of about 1000 buses and related  58.8    40.4   9.0
civil works and equipment, including depots, terminals, a major
workshop and passenger shelters In Madras.
TOTAL PROJECT COST:  632.6   443.7 100.0
Note (1):   Technical Assistance Is shown seperately but is also
Included in other component costs and should not be
add4d to column totals.



-13-
Institutional
2.08   Municipal Urban Development Fund (MUDF), US$102.3 million (Rs 133.0
crores).lI  A new source of municipal funding would be established to finance
equipment and civil works for the maintenance and delivery of services and
remunerative enterprises such as bus terminals and markets, primarily in 80
municipalities in the 10 largest urban agglomerations, although
municipalities in other urban areas could also access the Fund. A Government
Order establishing the Fund was issued in April 1988. Municipalities could
apply for funding assistance for capital projects in the range of Rs 10-300
lakhs, but without restriction as to type of project. Demands on the Fund
are anticipated mainly for roads and street lighting, storm water drains,
conservancy, and remunerative enterprises. Water supply and sanitation
projects are likely to be funded in fast-growing areas, such as the Madras
Outer Municipalities, where there are at present no major facilities.
Municipalities with adequate capability could also access the Fund to under-
take slum improvement schemes, which would adhere to the terms and conditions
for the Slum Improvement Program (SIP) executed by the Slum Clearance Board
(paras 2.16 and 4.10-4.13).
2.09    The Fund would be operated within a framework of rules and procedures
which would impose strict financial discipline, requiring municipalities to
set acceptable revenue performance targets, select service standards and
technologies consistent with their priority needs and financial resources and
substantiate requests for project funding with adequate feasibility studies
(paras 5.08 to 5.09). About Rs 6 crores of technical assistance would be
provided to municipalities as grants, particularly for preparing municipal
financial and operating plans, feasibility studies and management improvement
plans. Assurances were given at negotiations that: (i) the terms and
conditions for Fund loans and grants to municipalities would be acceptable to
IDA (OAP 7.01); and (ii) the rules and procedures of the Fund would be
acceptable to IDA, including that municipalities utilizing the Fund would
maintain a positive cash flow and debt-servicing ratios not normally greater
than 0.45 and would be required by the State to make the fund their "first
call" for financial support.
2.10    Urban Management, Technical Assistance, Training and Equipment,
US510.5 million (Rs 13.7 crores). The project would fund technical assis-
tance and training and advisory services to the project implementing
agencies. It would also fund computer equipment for improving management of
project implementing agencies and the incremental recurrent costs of the
Project Management Group (PMG) and City Management Committees (CMC) for
project monitoring and coordination (para 5.05). Annex 5 lists specific
studies already identified and types of studies which it is anticipated would
be needed based on the experience with similar urban development projects
operated as program loans. The bulk of technical assistance and advisory
services would be provided by local consultants. Assurances were given at
negotiations that: (i) the qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
1/ Base costs including physical contingencies and design supervision and
management, using 1987/88 exchange rate of Rs 13.00 = US$1.00.



-14-
tions for employment of consultants and advisors would be satisfactory to IDA
(OAP 12,c); and (ii) the Project Management Group would submit each year a
list of proposed studies and estimates of the technical assistance, training
and management equipment required for the forthcoming year (OAP 1.19).
Shelter
2.11    The Land Servicing Program (LAND) for Publicly Developed Sites and
Services, US$149.2 million (Rs 193.9 _rores). Following upon the successful
development of about 30,000 plots under the MUDP, about 950 ha. of land would
be developed, including water supply, conventional and low-cost sanitation,
roads and electricity, to provide about 70,000 serviced residential and
non-residential plots, core houses, community facilities and home expansion
loans, primarily for low income families.  The approximate number of plots
developed in each city would be:  Madras - 35,000;  Madurai - 8,000; Salem -
4,500; Coimbatore - 7,500; Trichy - 7,000 and other -ities - 8,000.
Residential plots would be provided for low, middle and high income groups.
The higher income and non-residential plots would generate much of the
revenue required for full cost recovery.
2.12    To make up for past shortfalls in the supply of low income shelter,
not less than 55% of plots on a site would be for income groups at or below
the poverty line and an additional 20% of plots would be for low income
groups just above the poverty line (para 4.07). Community facilities would
be provided on sites including pre-, primary and secondary schools, community
centers, health centers, police and fire stations and markets. Plots would
also be provided for small scale commercial and service industries.
Assurances were given at negotiations that Land Servicing Program (LAND)
schemes would be implemented only on sites which are satisfactory to IDA.
2.13    Layouts.  The standards and specifications for plot size, community
facilities, open space, roads, on-site sewerage, water supply, surface water
drainage and electricity and street lighting indicated in Annex 8 have been
applied to two prototype sites in accordance with the considerations in
Annexes 6 and 7, and have been developed to test a range of site conditions,
including low cost sanitation on suitable sites (Chart 1). The proportions
of low income plots in each scheme would approximately correspond to the
proportion of low income households in slum neighborhoods. (Chart 1.1). In
the layout designs (Maps 20559 and 20560) the plot locations and amenities
provided are appropriate to the needs of each income group and plot prices
are intended to approximate individual (not average) plot development costs
and market value, while being affordable to the intended income group. The
minimum plot size would be between 30 m2 and 40 m2. To improve the immediate
environment, small low income plots are organized in clusters of about 35
plots around semi-private courtyards. Core structures consisting of a toilet
and a toilet and bathroom would be provided respectively only on the smallest
and the next smallest plots.
2.14    Guided Urban Development (CUD) - Privately Developed Sites US$7.9
million (Rs 10.3 crores). About 140 ha. of land for about 10,000 residen-
tial and non-residential plots, substantially for 1. 7 income groups, would be
developed by private land owners and developers in the Madras Metropolitan
area in accordance with guidelines established by the Madras Metropolitan



-15-
Development Authority (MMDA) (Annex 9 and Chart 2). MMDA would purchase
serviced residential plots from developers for resale to low income families
through long-term loans and plots for community and other public facilities
(para 5.l0,b). The Guidelines would specify that out of the total number of
residential plots, not less than 60 low income plots per gross ha. of site
(about 66% of the total number of residential sites) would be purchased by
MMDA and allotted to low income households. Assurances were given at nego-
tiations that the State would consider providing exemptions under the Urban
Land Ceiling Act, on a case-by case basis, for CUD schemes meeting Guideline
requirements (OAP 3.02).
2.15    The layout and infrastructure standards required in these schemes
would be similar to those of the sites and services schemes discussed above.
Private developers would fund and develop on-site infrastructure and build
cores on low income plots in accordance with Guideline standards. MMDA would
arrange for and fund construction of off-site infrastructure and community
facilities on sites which could not generate a reasonable profit were the
developer to bear these costs. The private developer would sell low income
plots to the MMDA at the same prices as in public schemes and be free to
dispose of remaining higher income residential and non-residential plots at
market prices. The incentives for private landowners to join the scheme are:
(a) exemption from the Land Ceiling Act, where applicable; (b) availability
of more efficient, lower cost development control rules and engineering
standards which allow higher proportions of marketable land; (c) permission
for urban use and reclassification of land, which increases land value; and
(d) availability from MMDA of advance money for initial scheme finance in the
form of payments for low income plots.
2.16    Slum Improvement Program (SIP), US$28.7 million (Rs 37.3 crores).
The slum improvement program, building on the model of about 65,000
households who received improvements under MUDP, would benefit about 94,000
households in the 10 project urban agglomerations, on about 1,250 ha. of
private and public land. It would provide off-site and on-site
infrastructure, including standpipe water supply, various types of low-cost
sanitation (Chart 3), paths and roads, community facilities such as schools
and medicare centers, and tenure in existing slum areas. To satisfy the
shelter strategy (para 2.04) for each urban area, the number of households
covered would be: Madras - 45,000; Madurai - 14,000; Salem - 9,000;
Coimbatore - 12,000; Trichy - 10,000; and other cities - 4,000. Not more
than 5Z of huts, and only with a household's consent, would normally be
shifted within a neighborhood to achieve improvements. The Slum Clearance
Board's first year program for improvements has been prepared and the plan-
ning and service standards that would be applied to all Slum Improvement
Program (SIP) schemes are shown in Annex 10.
2.17    Land Sharing/Readjustment (LASER) for the Upgrading of Private Slums.
This component would finance the improvements of about 10,000 households in
private slums. Service improvements would be the same as those in slums on
public land, and tenure would be provided on the same terms and conditions as
for public slums. MMDA would negotiate upgrading agreements with owners and
slum residents that would involve: clearance of about 20% of the potentially
most valuable area in a slum neighborhood through voluntary hut relocation to
plots in the remaining 80% of the area and retention of the cleared area by



-16-
the owner (Chart 4). 0TN has authorized MMDA to approach land owners and
slum dwellers in private slums to negotiate these agreements. Assurances
were also given at negotiations that the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board
would aim to implement slum improvement schemes through these procedures for
about 10 of the households in the overall slum upgrading (SIP) component
(OAP, Section I).
2.18    Assurances were given at negotiations that implementing agencies and
municipalities would provide adequate funds and programs for delivering
maintenance and services in the all of the sites and services areas and
upgraded slums assisted under the project.
2.19    Finally, assurances were given at negotiations that plans, layouts,
engineering designs and standards and development and building regulations
applied by all agencies in shelter schemes assisted under the project (I-AND,
CUD, SIP) would be acceptable to IDA.
Transport
2.20    Transport and Traffic Management Program (TRAMP), US$61.2 million
(Rs 79.6 crores). The project would fund schemes for traffic management and
signalization, and road improvements, including lighting and new road
construction. Particular investments would include ring and bypass roads in
the larger cities, pedestrian under and overpasses and railway overbridges.
Similar improvements were successfully implemented under MUDP. Schemes
prepared and funded by Municipalities could be financed from the the tran-
spolt component, but would have to satisfy Municipal Urban Development Fund
criteria for credit-worthiness. Technical assistance for the preparation of
feasibility studies and traffic management plans, would be provided to the
Traffic Engineering and Management Circle of the Department of Highways and
Rural Works (OAP 1.09), and to Traffic Cells in Municipalities. Feasibility
studies have been prepared for projects in the five largest urban areas
valued at Rs 50 crores, equivalent to about 50% of component cost (Annex 11).
Assurances were given at negotiations that engineering designs and standards
and alignments in transport schemes would be in accordance with the Guideline
objectives and procedures (Annex 12), as incorporated in prototype schemes,
and will be finalized by the PMG in consultation with IDA (OAP 5.01).
2.21    Assistance to the Pallavan Transport Corporation (PTC), US$36.8
million T-Rs 47.8 crores). Following upon the provision of about 770 buses
and related facilities under the KUDP, the project would support a 4-year
slice of PTC's medium-term investment program for FY 1988/89 through 1991/92,
consisting of: the procurement of about 1,000 bus chassis and bus bodies,
built in PTC's workshops through force account; about 7 depots; a major
workshop at Perambur to service PTC's Northern Division; about 10 terminals;
passenger shelters; and various items of plant and equipment for workshops,
terminals and depots.
2.22 An average of about 170 buses per year would be required for replace-
ment of 8 to 10 year old buses reaching the end of their economic life. For
augmentation to meet the growth in ridership projected at 2.3-3.8Z per year,
23 buses per year on average would be procured. The new buses would be more
efficient in the use of fuel and other inputs and have greater carrying



-17-
capacity than buses replaced. A substantial proportion would be used to
operate new services, including limited-stop services, on which about 350
km/day/bus is being achieved, compared to 200 km./day/bus on ordinary
services, with commeusurate savings in the number and costs of buses required
to serve the same passenger demand. Technical assistance would also be
provided under the project to strengthen PTC's management and operations.
III. Proiect Costs and Financing
A. Cost Estimates
3.01    Total project costs, net of tax, are estimated at Rs. 597 crores
(US$418.8 million). The foreigp exchange component is Rs 33.4 crores
(US$23.4 million), or 5.3% of project costs. Taxes and duties are estimated
to be Rs 35.5 crores (US$24.9 million), or 5.3X of project costs. Costs are
summarized in Table 3.1, and detailed in Annex 13.
Compnert                    Local Foeign Total  Lol  Foreign  Total Foreign  % as  % of
--   Rs.Crore--- . -----USS mlion ------ (%)   Om    Total
LAND: Stes _ Servce        151.17 10.37 161.64 108.04   7.27 113.32  6.42  34.69  25.54
GUD: GuWed Deveapmnt         9.48  0.20  9.68  6.65   0.14  6.79  2.07   2.08  1.53
SIP: Slum Improvemrd        28.71  2.33  31.04  20.14   1.63  21.77  7.51   6.67  4.91
TRAMP: Traflic Management& Transpert  59.67  5.568 65.45  42.00   3.91  45.91   8.53  14.0S  10.35
PTC: Pallavan Transpott Corporation    36.47  3.02  39.49  25.56   2.12  27.70  7.65   8.48  6.2
MUDFk Muncipal Utban Develpnent Fund  120.31  0.56 120.87  84.40   0.39  84.79  0.46  2S.96  19.11
Design Supevision & Management  34.98  2.64  37.62  24.54   1.65  26.39   7.02  8.08  5.95
TOTAL_BASECST              440.99 24.70 465.69 309.35  17.33 326.68   S.30 100.00  73.6
Physical Contingercles      34.39  1.81  36.20  24.12   1.27  25.39   5.00  7.77  5.7
Price Contiencies          123.78  6.88 130.66  86.83   4.83  91.66  5.27  28.06  20.66
SubTota: C;antngoncles     158.17  8.69 166.86  110.96   6.10 117.05  5.21  35.83  26.38
TOTAL PROJECT COST        599.16 33.39 632.55 420.31   23.42 443.73  5.28 135.83 100.00
Of which Taxes: 35.54
%   5.62                                  -
3.02    The estimated costs of the sites and services and slum upgrading
components are based on layouts, engineering designs and costs for typical
sites (para 2.13) and slum neighborhoods, covering about 152 of each
component's cost. Costs for traffic and transport projects in Madras and the
other four largest urban areas have been developed from a list of priority
traffic and transport projects in action programs prepared by consultants.
The size of the bus component is based on assumptions about service
standards, productivity, revenue and internal cash generation.  The size of
the Municipal Urban Development Fund is based on studies of the costs of
municipal service requirements at different standards and computer models of
the feasible set of targets for resource mobilization, service standards and
expenditure and debt-servicing capacity of the five biggest municipalities,



-18-
including Madras, and 10 outer municipalities of Madras. Technical assis-
tance for urban management strengthening is estimated at about 2X of project
costs based on experience in other urban development projects. Most techni-
cal assistance would be local.
3.03    Base cost estimates are in October 1987 prices.  Cost estimates for
civil works are based on Public Works Department unit costs, adjusted where
necessary to reflect recent contract costs for similar works in each com-
ponent and applied to preliminary engineering designs and layouts. Estimates
for the costs of equipment and materials are mostly for buses and related
equipment and are based on recent contracts and quotations from suppliers.
The costs of the Municipal Urban Development Fund are based on estimates of
the debt-servicing capabilities of municipalities and generalized costs of
meeting service needs, taken from recent contracts.
3.04    Physical contingencies of 10% of base costs have been provided for
civil works and materials in all components. Design, supervision and manage-
ment costs are estimated at 12.5% of base costs for civil works, 0.5% for
loans, 8.5% for materials and equipment and 2% for land acquisition. For
project planning, coordination and performance evaluation, 1.5% of base costs
has been provided to fund the costs of the Project Management Group and City
Management Committees, including MMDA. No physical contingencies have been
applied to land or technical assistance and training costs.
3.05    Annual price contingencies for both foreign and local costs have been
applied to civil works, materials and equipment and land, at a rate of: 8%
for fiscal years 1987/88 and 1988/89; 7% for fiscal year 1989/90; and 6% for
fiscal years 1990/91-1993/94.
B. Financing Plan
3.06    The IDA credit of US$300.2 million would finance about 72% of project
costs net of taxes and duties. The credit wocld cover 100% of foreign
exchange costs and about 66% of local costs and would be made available to
the Government of India which would pass it to the Government of Tamil Nadu
on its standard terms and conditions for development assistance to states.
3.07    The sources and applications of project funds and the flow of funds
to implementing agencies, including terms and conditions of State loans and
grants to implementing agencies, are shown in Table 3.2 and Chart 5
respectively. Funds for technical assistance, training and advisory services
would be provided by the State to all agencies and the Urban Development Fund
to municipalities in the form of grants. In addition, Tamil Nadu would
provide 40% cf its contribution to the Urban Development Fund, including the
IDA funds, in the form of grants.
3.08    About 28% (US$118.8 million) and 5% (US$20.6 million) of project
costs would be funded respectively from internal cash generation by project
implementing agencies and shelter revolving funds established for MUDP.



-19-
Table 3.2. Summary Sources and Applications of Funds (US$ million) 1/
Sources                                                 Applications
7th     8th                           7th     8th
Plan    Plan    Total                 Plan    Plan    Total
IDA/GTN                  82.5   221.9    304.4
LAND Revolving Fund       4.7    12.6      17.3       LAND     45.1    122.2   167.3
SIP Revolving Fund        1.0      2.3      3.3       GUD       2.0       7.0     9.1
Internal Generation:                                  SIP       9.6      22.2    31.7
.LAND                    21.1    57.6      78.7      TRAMP    17.9       50.5    68.3
.SIP                      1.5     3.4       4.9      PTC       10.2      30.2    40.4
.PTC                      2.1     6.2       8.2      MUDF      35.7      91.3   127.0
.MUDF                     7.7    19.4      ^7.0                                 _
Total                   120.4   323.3    443.7        Total   120.4    323.3   443.7
Relending Term! from GTN to:
(a)  TNHB:  as 100% loan at a rate of interest not less 0an GTM's borrowing rate from
GOI, or 1OZ per year, whichever is greater, over 15 lears with no moratorium on
principal repayment.
(b) TNSCB: as 50% loan at a rate of interest not less than GTU's borrowing rate from
OI, or 10% per year, whichever is greater, over 15 years with no moratorium on
principa. repayments and 50% as grants.
(c)  PTC:  as 100% loan at a rate of interest not less than GTN's borrowing rate from
OI, or 120 per year, whichever is greater, over 10 years, with no moratorium on
principal repayments.
(d)  MUDF:  aa 60% loan at a rate of interest not less than GTN's borrowing rate from
GOI, or 1OZ per year, whichever is greater, repayment over 10 years, 5 year
moraterium on principal repayments with interest rolled forward, and; 40% as
grants.
1/ Numbers may not tally exactly because of rounding.



-20-
3.09    Retroactive Financing.  Project preparation is well advanced, with
detailed engineering designs, and estimates of quantities completed and land
available for the first year programs of most components (para 5.12). The
Government of Tamil Nadu wishes to sustain the momentum built up by the
agencies and also take advantage of the construction season beginning in
January 1988. Retroactive financing not to exceed US$10 million, or about 3%
of the Credit, would therefore be provided for all project expenditures from
November 1, 1987, the time of project appraisal.
IV. Resource Mobilization, Pricing and Affordability
A.  Cost Recovery
4.01    Through direct user charges for plots and loans in the sites and
services and slum upgrading components, fares in the bus component and
municipal loan payments to the Urban Development Fund, 65% percent of
project costs would be directly recovered (Table 4.1). Nine percent of
project costs for off-site infrastructure works and equipment for environmen-
tal services would be indirectly recovered through property taxes, other
local government charges and user charges of functional agencies. Twenty six
percent of project costs would not be recovered, mostly representing grants
provided under the Urban Development Fund and expenditures on the transport
component.
Table 4.1. Cost Recovery Plan 1/
(Rs crores)
Recovered               Not
Component                            Directly    Indirectly   Recovered        Total
Rs     X    Rs     X      Rs     Z    Rs       Z
LAND: Sites & Services              202.4   82   40.1   16       4.0     2   246.5   39
CUD: Guided Development               9.5   70    3.7   28       0.3     2    13.5    2
SIP: Slum Improvement Program        35.4   76   10.3   22       0.7     1    46.4    7
TRAMP: Traffic Mgmt & Transport       0.0    0    0.0    0   100.3   100   100.3   16
PTC: Pallavan Transport Corp.        58.2   99    0.0    0       0.6     1    58.8    9
MUDF: Municipal Urban Dev Fund      112.0   67    0.0    0    55.2    33   167.2   26
Total                               417.5   66   54.1    9   161.1    25   632.7  100
1/ Numbers may not tally exactly due to rounding.
4.02    The interest rates of not less than 12% per year charged
municipalities by the Urban Development Fund and beneficiaries for plot and
home expansion loans by the Housing and Slum Clearance Boards, would be
higher than interest rates (7-9%) for lower income groups in existing
programs. With project price contingencies over the project period estimated
to be about 6-8% per year, these interest rates would be positive in real
terms.



-21-
B. Resource Mobilization
4.03    The project financial plan depends on 31Z of project costs being
financed from internal cash generation by project agencies and cumulated
surpluses in MUDP revolving funds (Table 3.2). Other resources would also be
generated, which would not be directly required to fund project costs, as
described below:
(a) The initial revaluation of properties in 1988/89 (para 1.33,b,i)
would in most municipalities, increase the value of property assessments by
more than 100%, property tax revenues by between 50-200Z, depending upon the
tax rate applied by a municipality and overall municipal revenues by 25-50%.
Municipalities should have adequate debt-servicing capability, therefore,
to draw on the Urban Development Fund. The Fund would generate cash
surpluses for its lending program on the spread between its borrowing and
lending terms and conditions. Improvements in the efficiency of tax collec-
tions would also be targeted and monitored in the financial and operating
plans required of municipalities accessing the Fund.
(b) Sites and Services (LAND). Down payments from residential plots
and proceeds of outright sale of industrial and commercial plots would
finance 40-50% of the chargeable cost of the (LAND) sites and services
program. In addition, a surplus of not less than 5% more than the chargeable
costs on each site would be available for future investments in similar
projects, but has not been included as a source of project funds.
(c) Guided Urban Development. Because MMDA is only financing the
purchase of low income plots, 10% of the price of plots and cores paid as
downpayments would be available to fund these schemes. MMDA would obtain
additional resources from private site development by collecting development
charges. However, neither of these sources of funds has been included in the
project funding plan.
(d) Slum Improvement. Downpayments ranging from 10 to 20Z for
different size plots, would fund about 15% of component cost.
(e) Bus Transport. In excess of 20% of the Pallavan Transport
Corporation investment program under the project would be funded from inter-
nal cash generation.
C. Pricing and Affordability
4.04    Sites and Services (LAND).  Residential and non-residential plots
would be priced at various levels below average chargeable development
cost/m2 for low income groups and above average development cost for higher
income groups and non-residential uses (Table 4.2 and Annex 14). This pricing
policy follows the successful practice of MUDP. The MUDP experience indi-
cates that on the average, about 50Z of these costs can be directly recovered
during the construction period, mostly from higher income beneficiaries.
4.05    The prices charged for small plots designated for lower income
households (below 1000 rupees per month) reflect lower: (a) infrastructure
costs; (b) market value of location in the overall site; (c) potential for



-22-
house or non-residential construction or use; (d) and affordability. Larger,
more costly, residential plots, including plots for apartments, and non-
residential plots, placed in better locations with a larger potential for
building construction, would be marketed to lower middle and higher income
households (above 1000 rupees per month) at prices which substantially exceed
average development costs/net m2 of saleable area and approximate market
prices. Plots for small industries and commercial activities would be
priced at market value. Plots for schools would be transferred to government
agencies free of cost and plots for other community facilities would be
priced at average development cost/net m2.
Table  4.2:        LAND -  Sites  and  Services
PrAtotype: Ambattur - Tank land requiring deep fill, on site
water supply through deep wells, conventional sewerage
PRICING S AFFORDAOILITY OF RISIOENTIAL PLOTS            Apt.Plat1
R*idant.plot typo    OWl-1  E-2  LIC-1  LIG-2    MtG    HItG           1116  Totallmb
Mnthncome 1          400.00 W0.00 090.00 1250.00  aoo.00 3500.00  3500.00         59.S4f
Plot sit in m2        32.00   40.00  60.00   90.00    160.00 300.00    34.57
Plot typewcent.      20.00   35.00  20.00   13.00      6.50   1.00     4.50    100.01
*11MB. PLOTSIT/C      12(t    2205   1260    Ot4        4tO      6J      204      am
Gev.landOWsnetm 2     30.00   40.00 100.00  175.00   450.00 090.00   750.00    760.'
supottt.cst/plat    4442.30 6492.59   0.00    0.00      0.00   0.00              199.1
Otb  ced pw plot       0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00      0.00   0.00
*ot.CAPITALAM         5402   6003   dWON  I STU             1fO10   2SM93        979.2
oevnpoywnt X           0.00   0.00   0.00   25.00    40.0   60.00   100.00    312.1
lulm.e wm   400.00  600.00 1000.00    0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00      30.0
into   t tly*ale      12.00   12.00  12.00   12.00    12.00  12.00    12.00
Low termv w           20.00   20.00  20.00   15.00    10.00   5.00      5.00
OWTH.MORTG.PYt           SS 02          5      t142       ov   t13          eal
Watr6lect.chor-
OUe month.charo
*lOIIMOTNYITt         SS-OO   022J0  S05 41.27    %"7.  17S.0           0.0        e3
!-       _     1ng     NC  37 1 37 7    0.40  111.34    14"4-N          00         3.9
Nont Exponeton Lom   2000.00 3000.00  10000                                  total
Monthly Payment       22.02   33.03 110.11                                       217.31
%otMonthly Incm        5.t1   5.1   12.95
*et    .f lt eatbit   I 19.2   19.26  19.43
1b_elosd L    Cot Seeovwrle prn  m2                   439.42
*Onel_u Lur6 CostAwt m2 to r-WOOYg to break OYn       360.S;
pogwau    f l In ftTheu"ne CUd PWC*est         1       30701 Al,"7 
LASS UE l PRICIM OF NOP-KESIOGNTIAL LAND
.aPcgRf Non-Oatdfentill
Total area (he)      64.21  100.O0 Oevel.L.nOperIce
Nan-Marketable
CIculatIon  m2       201430  23.92  per net m2
OpenPon   m2          52294   6.21  - --                    Ae e
OxidattIn Po"m2       502    6.95                         (PO_Lhi
Sb-Total  312251  3.00
Morketable
Primary schoole m2       0   0.00   0.00                      0.00
S!cend. achoolem2        0   0.00   0.00        Sule,fShoos 33.25
Other faclities m2    79166    9.40 400-00                  311.1
Comemrctal *I m2      50526   0.00 1000.00                  50S.2
Commercial 62 m2          0   0.00 6O0.OO                     0.00
C immercIlp l3 m2         0   0.00   0.00                     0.OC
Smell tInustr  m2      9600   1.14 600.00                    76.50
Total ReSUentlo  m2  3901   46.32                           933.1O
SuO-Total  249   62.92
*TOTAL NUMS.PLOTS     6063       1hld S1 i I S.00
*tW%AT.OEIS.IKA    374.09  74.32 Vhgo                        ns
Totel    On-isle
*_                       t _ E_  



-23-
4.06    Beneficiaries would be selected by computerized lots.  Eligible
applications--which generally exceed the number of available plots by ratios
of from 2:1 to 10:1--would restrict applications for specific residential
plot types to households whose income falls within specific income
categories. Residential plots would be sold on the basis of lease-cum-sale
agreements bearing an interest rate of not less than 12X per year with
downpayments ranging from 10-50% and periods ranging from 5-20 years, depend-
ing on the income group. Purchasers of apartment plots, shops, markets and
industrial plots would pay 100% of the full price up front. Optional home
improvement loans, ranging from Rs 2,000 to Rs 10,000/household, available
only to low income households, would be made at an interest rate not less
than 12% per year for a period not less than 15 years. Home Improvement
Loans would not be provided to other income groups, who would have access to
other institutions like the Housing Development Finance Corporation, coopera-
tive societies and employers and personal savings. Lease-cum sale
agreements, providing more effective means than regular lease or outright
sale agreements for compelling beneficiaries to pay plot charges promptly,
have contributed to sustained collections of over 90% of demand in MUDP.
4.07    About 55% of plots in sites and services schemes acceptable for
inclusion in the project, would be affordable to very low income families, at
or below the poverty level, in the 10th to 40th percentile of each city's
income distribution. Another 20 to 25% of plots would be affordable to low
income families at or just above the poverty level, in the 40th to 60th
percentile of the city income distribution. These low income target
beneficiaries, divided into 3 income groups--less than Rs 500, Rs 501- 700
and Rs 701-1000 1/ --would pay charges of between Rs 50-85/month/household
(US$3.85-6.50/month), representing 14%, 15% and 6% of their respective
incomes, which are affordable.
4.08    Guided Urban Development (GUD).  Prices paid to developers by MMDA
for low income plots (para 2.14), the prices and terms and conditions of
loans to low income beneficiaries for plots and optional Home Expansion
Loans, marketing and plot allocation procedures and provisions for tenure
would be the same in a GUD scheme as in public sites and services (LAND)
schemes. Developers would be permitted to charge the market price for all
other residential and non-residential plots. Internal roads, other
infrastructure and public space and facilities would be transferred by the
developer to government free of cost.
4.09    100% of the plots obtained by the MMDA under Guided Development would
be allotted to low income families in the 10th to 60th percentile of the
income distribution.  Out of these, 70% of the plots would be sold to low
income families in the 10th to 40th percentile of the income distribution.
Prices charged to low income beneficiaries for plots would amount to about
14% of household income, which is affordable.
4.10    Slum Improvement.  A pricing scheme which ensures full recovery of
land and chargeable site improvement costs would be employed.  Prices would
1/ at 1987 prices.



-24-
reflect the location of slum neighborhoods in two or three city land value
zones (Maps 20555, 20556 and 20557), hut size and use, but not necessarily
the actual cost of improvements in a particular neighborhood. A single
consolidated land and improvement charge would be levied for the lease-cum-
sale agreements.
4.11    Prices (Table 4.3) have been dezised so that charges would recover
about 140% of chargeable improvement costs; and collections of 70% of demand
would fully recover chargeable costs (para 1.34,b,iv).  For pricing, huts
are classified into five categories, each charged a different rate/m2. The
three lower income categories would pay 10% of the plot price as down
payment, higher income categories 15% and 20% . The remaining balance would
be recovered in monthly installments carrying an interest rate of not less
than 12% per year over not less than 15 years.  Improvements would be com-
menced only when a majority of households have deposited down payments and
completed Lease-cum sale agreements with the Slum Clearance Board. On full
payment of the plot price, households would be allowed to sell plots after
three years.
4.12    Assurances were given at negotiations that for the (LAND) sites and
services, Guided Development, and Slum Improvement schemes: (i) the
Government of Tamil Nadu would recover fully all chargeable costs and target
beneficiary selection criteria and terms and conditions of sales and leases
for residential, commercial, small industry and other plots, and for home
improvement loans shall be as agreed among IDA, GTN and GOI; and (ii)
onlending terms to beneficiaries for serviced plots and Home Improvement
Loans shall include, inter alia, that interest shall be charged at not less
than 12% per year.
4.13    About 70% of the slum upgrading beneficiaries would be below the
poverty line (Chart 1.1). Prices charged to these beneficiaries, including
those in private slum improvement schemes, would vary between Rs 12 and Rs
70/month, representing 6 -12% of monthly household income of different income
groups.  These charges are affordable and leave households with a margin of
affordability to borrow funds for shelter improvement from other sources.



-25-
TABLE 4.3: Madras Slum Improvement Program
Costs, Prices, Cost Recovery and Affordability
Project Chargeable Costs:
(Rs/hhld)                 On-site Infrastructure:
Household
Land            2000                   Water              140         Zonal Distribution
Site Prop         45                   Sevorage          940          Zone    X      No.
OnsUte Infra    2190                   Drainage          393
Hut Relocation     S                   Roads             601           I         0        0
Sub-Totol   4240                   St. Lights         91          II       10    4500
Phys.Cont        224                   Landscaping         IS         III       30    13500
0S&M             345                   Oustbins            10         IV        60   27000
Total  4809                          Total      2190          Total   100   45000
Total Cost, Madras (Rs Crores): 21.84
Table 4.3.20 Prices, Cost Recovery and Affordability
Hh1d Income/ma  Prica/m2   Mean         Oown       Loan Re-oamont    Revenue (Rs)
Out size (m2)                             Price/hut payment t4 hhld Hhlds   Total   Mean
(%)    (Rs)      (Rs)      (Rs)       (Rs)  (Rs/mo)income (No) (Crores) (hhld)
Zone 11
less than 20       5       200      s0        1200       120   11.9   8.0   225    0.03
20-60             30       325      75        3000       300   29.7    9.1  1350    0.41
60-110            53       600      88        7500       750   74.3   12.4  2365      1.79
110-220           10      1150     109       18000      2700  166.5   14.7   450    0.61
more than 220      2      2000      140      35000      7000  306.3   15.4    90    0.32
Sub totals    100  Revenue (crore): 3.35       Oownpmt: 0.41             4500    3.36  7467
Zone III
less than 20       5      200       50        1000       100   9.91   4.96   675    0.07
20-60             20       325      63        2500       250  24.77  7.62  2700    0.68
a0-110            63      000       71        6000       800  59.46   9.91  8505    5.10
110-220           10     1150       91       15000      2250 140.39  12.21  1350    2.03
more than 220      2     2000      110       27500      5500 242.24  12.11   270    0.74
Sub totals    100   Revenue (crore) 0.61       Oownpmt: 1.04            13500    8.62  6385
Zone IV
le sthan20         5       200      SO        1000       100   9.91  4.96  1350    0.14
20-60             15       600      50        2000       200  19.82   3.30  4050    0.61
60-110            82      1150      59       S500        500  49.55   4.31 16740    6.37
110-220           15     2000       76       12500      1875 116.99  5.65  4050    5.06
morethon220        3      2000      100      25000      5000 220.22  11.01   610    2.03
sub totals    100  Revenue (crare): 16.40      Oownpmt: 2.10            27000    16.41  6078
Total         Revenue (crore): 26.36      Oownpmt: 3.55            45000   28.39  6309
Oovnoayment as % of Cost: 16.40           Percent Cost Recovery: 131



-26-
4.14    Pallavan Transport Corporation (PTC).  Fare revisions have been
projected in the PTC financial and operating plan at the annual levels
required to achieve an average operating ratio of less than 0.98 and internal
cash generation averaging in excess of 20Z of the cost of the average PTC
investment program, after allowing for the cost-reducing affects of produc-
tivity improvements and, interalia, revenue enhancement from State reimburse-
ments to PTC of losses on state-mandated student subsidies. The projections
indicate that an average fare increase of about 7.6X per year would be
required; this corresponds to small annual increases of about 5 paise/stage
(0.4 US cents) on the 40-55 paise fare (3.20-4.40 US cents) paid in 1987/88
by the majority of riders.
4.15    Household surveys in Madras indicate that households spend an affor-
dable 2-7X of household income on bus transport, that very low income
households are an insignificant proportion of bus ridess, and that bus riders
are much more concerned about service deficiencies thai fare levels. The
rate of increase in bus fares required to support the PTC preferred invest-
ment program would be less than the rate of increase in the cost of living
projected at 92 per year. As incomes of lower income families tend to keep
up with cost of living increases, the bus fare revisions needed to support
the PTC investment and operating program under the project should continue to
be affordable to all classes of riders.
V. Project Management and Implementation
A. Project Management and Implementation (Chart 5.1).
5.01    General Coordination.  The Government of Tamil Nadu created a
mechanism in December 1986 to ensure adequate planning, coordination and
management of the project. This consists of a High Powered Policy
Committee, with the Chief Secretary as Chairman and a Stat3 Level
Coordination Committee chaired by the Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development and including the Secretaries, Department of Municipal
Administration and Water Supply and Department of Transport, Chief Executives
of the major project implementing agencies and the District Collectors in
charge of City Management Committees for each project city. The High Powered
Policy Committee is responsible for major project policy issues requiring
Cabinet consideration. The State Level Committee is responsible for coor-
dinating the project and resolving issues involving several agencies and
Departments.
5.02    In April 1988, GTN created an Empowered Committee to expedite actions
on land acquisition and procurement without recourse to Government
Departments. It would also carry out the functions of and replace the High
Powered Policy Committee. A similar arrangement has worked effectively in
the IDA-funded Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project. The Empowered Committee would
be chaired by the Chief Secretary and Secretaries from key State Departments
involved in the project would be its members.
5.03    A Project Management Group (PMG) of senior technica' officials,
appointed in December 1987 for the management of the proposed project, would
monitor over-all project implementation on the basis of information provided



-27-
by City Management Committees. It would be responsible to the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development.
5.04    The PMG would maintain integrated project accounts  and manage the
Urban Development Fund. It would prerpre the annual budget for the project,
advise the State Finance Department regarding the periodic disbursement of
project funds to implementing agencies and prepare and submit requests for
reimbursements from project funds. The Project Management Group is expected
to provide the nucleus for a proposed State Urban Development Authority.
5.05    MMDA in Madras and the City Management Committee in each urban
agglomeration, supported by Directorate of Town and Country Planning staff,
would be responsible for day-to-day coordination of project implementation
and the integration of project investments in city development strategies.
The responsibility for appraising shelter, transport and municipal projects
proposed annually by implementing agencies for inclusion in the project would
rest with the Project Management Group and City Management Committees. Most
of the PMG's burden of appraisal would be borne by MMDA for Madras projects.
In time the City Management Committees would perform a similar function. The
project would fund technical and advisory assistance to the Management Group
and City Committees for project feasibility study reviews, the development of
accounting and project management information systems and the procurement of
management-related equipment.
,.06    Assurances were given at negotiations that the Government of Tamil
Nadu would maintain the Empowered Committee, Project Management Group, and
City Management Committee throughout the execution of the project.
5.07    The organization, management and finance of key project activities
and agencies (Chart 5.1), are described in paras 5.08-5.11. Details of state
level urban responsibilities and agencies management and finance are provided
in the Project Implementation Report.



Chart 5.1                                                                      -28-
INDIA
TAMIL ,NADU URBi3AN ,DEVELOPMENIT PROJECT (TNUDP
Organization and Responsibilities
pAn Oft  ^tw t 
cs ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~IA orvpra uksmr  toa Sn   er 
& Ch tt9   s1 
eXordinOtlen Cffimmitt ~~~~(PUG)                                         MOR    S, _DI
LCC)                           . CDrptt uSnw 0D%  Frz                       ov         O".amr
.corests as 11a pm  n4 i/                   ctFtt ftc tw 4 mom
Re_ warmk Mniny enO        of               go        w   C"              _m_ mnnv Pk-w
TNU1JP In ItoW: to Majo MaWn                                                            #O.G*m4tWfl plt Jts,tb Ttfdu
txk Wm  t     m  tsellomn. h,                                                             Tm_m  a mmal   
an* NsiW   t n       ow nGnmlk  4 _                     N nw amu
10001o"lses coax                                           nwmtteh poi C 0    .4
t(3an)~~~~~~~rom We _aIuroo .q
t~~~~~~~~o"    0nt   ¢ in  mm  J  _, 
ttnttit    8 i~~~~~~~nt \Ut aM ItlUtO tL                                                    su        elc
la       0U                               O      tUnoe            X        i-       lf      ii
t te~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oow  w     tSUOFN \ 11&sPr  4
=n fl 1 | ~0 rAHI  | 
FWr DeMrt   |  | | tTAW ulilill 4Pt    |  |    Rs t4 er           r                    |  I~=11 1.   VMS 
< R1 tt t.h Slillt   |  | | T  g__l b0_    7                                                 |  T~~~~anarm
am~                                                       ~~ P TOT^                                , tW _   M,I I
|      g   |~~~~~~~~ww    kgl tatKn                            w0nun"n Tre       SW.cG
R~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CMOO                                                         TOA   ReC Te narms01t
l~~~~~~~~4C                                               Pr      PatX an T Tf ttt n Ct_  t          l
Z | _ Wt d~~~~~~~~o ans_to_ ofS &l  TWAD  TW   tU Wo   D_ |o   O



-29-
Municipal Urban Development Fund
5.08    A basis for the institutions and operations of the Fund exists in a
small Town and Country Planning Fund under the joint direction of the
Directorate of Municipal Administration and Directorate of Town and Country
Planning. A Fund Manager in the Project Management Group would be respon-
sible for day-to-day management of Fund policy, and the Chairman of the PMG
(Secretary HUD) will head a Fund Management Committee. The Manager of the
Fund would be responsible for appraising municipal proposals for MUDF-funded
projects, municipalities' financial and operating plans and credit-worthiness
and needs for technical assistance. The Directorate of Municipal
Administration will make disbursements from the Fund, receive payments of
interest and principal from municipalities and will be responsible and
accountable for all other transactions. An early program of publicity and
information about the Fund was mounted in early 1988 by the Directorate of
Municipal Administration and the ?MC amongst eligible municipalities. The
project provides technical assistance for developing the Fund's and
municipalities' management information and accounting systems (OAP 1.09(a)
and section 7).
5.09    The Fund would be self-sustaining, generating cash surpluses for its
lending program from the spread between its average borrowing rate on grants
and loans from the State (Table 3.2) and its average lending rate to
municipalities. Municipal projects would be financed as a loan/grant mix
varying from 100% Loan up to 25% loan and 75% grant, the mix depending upon
each municipality's resource base and resource generation effort and service
needs. Of the Fund's US$117.2 million (Rs 167.2 crores) disbursements under
the project, 67% and 33% are expected to be issued respectively as loans and
grants, while the Fund would receive a loan/grant mix of 60/40 from the
Government of Tamil Nadu.
Shelter
5.10    (a)  The Tamil Nadu Housing Board would be responsible for implement-
ing the (LAND) sites and services component of the project. Its staff and
management have extensive experience with land development from MUDP. TNHB's
activities, particularly in Madras, have been chiefly constrained by land
acquisition difficulties. To meet the requirements of the sites and services
schemes it oversees, TNHB would need about 340 ha. of land a year. A finan-
cial and operating plan has been prepared for TNHB on the assumption that:
non-IDA financed schemes should: be financially viable; support the TNUDP
shelter strategy by providing a high proportion of low income plots; meet GTN
and HUDCO-mandated conditions for priority allocation of resources to low
income households; and maximize the number of units produced while constrain-
ing unit investment costs with the scarce land and finance available. To
achieve this, proportions of low income beneficiaries, plot sizes, land uses
and layouts and pricing policies, planning and engineering design standards
similar to those in proposed sites and services (LAND) schemes would need to
be applied. Assurances were given at negotiations that the Tamil Nadu
Housing Board would: (i) allocate land in its possession in project cities
first to schemes under the proposed project (OAP, Section I); and (ii) design
and construct its non-IDA schemes with proportions of low income
beneficiaries, plot sizes, land uses and layouts and pricing policies, plan-



-30-
ning and engineering design standards similar to those in (LAND) sites and
services schemes (OAP 2.01).
(b) NMDA would be responsible for administering Guided Urban
Development including reviewing applications for permits, making recommenda-
tions to the State for grant of exemptions for development under the Urban
Land Ceiling Act, completing agreements with developers, purchasing low
income plot3 from developers, making loans to low income families for pur-
chasing plots and quality control on construction. MMDA would also be
responsible, in collaboration with the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board, for
negotiating land sharing/readjustment schemes.
(c) The Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board. The slum improvement
component of the project would be implemented in both public and private
slums by the TNSCB whose staff and management have had similar respon-
sibilities in MUDP. Under MUDP, the Slum Clearance Board's clearance and
tenement re-housing activities were limited to not more than Rs 3.75 crores
per year in locations required for public schemes of immediate and high
priority. Financial projections for the Board (Annex 4) indicate that its
project investment program would be financially and operationally viable if
its total investment commitments were limited to about Rs 20 crores per year
and collections and other revenue generating performance are improved.
Assurances were given at negotiations that The Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance
Board would: (i) limit the clearance-cum-tenement program to about Rs 3.75
crores per year; and (ii) endeavour to ensure that TNSCB's activities were
not expanded to the detriment of the SIP component or TNSCB's financial
viability (OAP 4.13).
(d) The Tamil Nadu Public Works Department would implement arterial
storm drain schemes.
(e)  The Tamil Nadu Water and Drainage Board would be responsible for
implementing most municipal-owned water supply and sanitation projects funded
by the Urban Development Fund.
(f) Following the pattern of MUDP, the Department of Social Welfare
would be responsible for operating health, nutrition and child welfare
programs in pre-schools funded under the project. Operational responsibility
for programs in primary and secondary schools funded under the project would
rest with the Department of Education and in some cases educational services
would be provided by voluntary organizations. The Department of Health would
supervise health services provided by voluntary organizations in project-
funded centers.
Transport
5.11    (a)  The Pallavan Transport Corporation (PTC) would be responsible
for the bus component. The State has taken actions to improve the procedures
and institutions for fare revision and PTC accountability for achieving its
revenue and operating productivity targets by creating a Bus Fare Expert
Committee.



-31-
(b)  The Bus Fare Expert Committee (BEFEC) (para 1.34,b,iii) would
advise the Government of Tamil Nadu about the fare revision and PTC operating
performance required to fund the project-funded investment program. PTC's
financial plan and operational targets and investment program would be
revised annually and reviewed by IDA (OAP, 1.17). Assurances were given at
negotiations that PTC would: (i) maintain an average operating ratio of less
than 0.98;1/ (ii) fund in excess of 20% of its average annual investment
program 2/ from internal cash generation (OAP, Section 1); (iii) be reim-
bursed in two installments each year by the State, for its losses on sub-
sidized student tickets at the rate of 70% of PTC's estimate of the revenue
loss on students, in accordance with a formula already agreed with GTN (OAP
6.01); and (iv) aim to pay principal and interest due on all its outstanding
debt, but will pay at least the principal and interest due on Government of
Tamil Nadu loans funded by IDA. Assurances were also given at negotiations
that PTC would semi-annually revise and extend its financial and operating
plan, establish fare revisions, and prepare a corporate planning document,
including financial and operating targets (OAP 6.02).
(c) The Department of Highway. and Rural Works and some
municipalities would be responsible for preparing and implementing road and
traffic management schemes under the transport component in project urban
areas.
B. Implementation Arrangements
5.12    Status of Preparation.  The preparation of project components and
institutional arrangements for starting implementation on an estimated
Rs 60.3 crores (US$43.7 million) of expenditure in the first year programs
for all project components are well advanced, as summarized below.
(a)  Municipal Urban Development Fund (MUDF).   In order to access
the Fund, municipalities must prepare medium term investment and operating
programs, project a debt-servicing capability which is commensurate with a
sitisfactory program for resource generation and resource allocation and
submit acceptable project feasibility studies. These programs have been
prepared already for the five largest cities in the project and 10 outer
municipalities of the Madras Netropolitan Area.  The Fund manager is in
position to start funding technical assistance for project feasibility
studies and evaluating project proposals from these cities. About Rs 14.4
crores (US$10.4 million) disbursements from the Fund are projected in FY
88/89.
1/ The average annual operating ratio would be estimated from PTC's
operating ratio incurred or expected to be incurred during the last
actual, current and next financial year.
2/  The average annual investment program would be estimated from PTC's
capital expenditures incurred or expected to be incurred during the last
actual, current and next financial year.



(b) Sites and Services (LAND). Satisfactory design briefs have been
prepared for two prototype sites and services schemes. Final designs,
estimates and bid documents were ready in the first half of 1988 for develop-
ing about 12,000 plots at a cost of Re 25.4 crores (US$18.4 million). Land
for these sites is in the Housing Board's possession.
(c) Guided Urban Development (CUD). On the basis of Guidelines
approved by GTN, MMDA is negotiating agreements with developer/owners with a
potential for schemes and about Rs 1.1 crores (US$0.8 million) of project
expenditure is projected for FY 88/89.
(d) Slum Upgrading. Final engineering designs and layouts and neigh-
borhood identification have been completed for about one third of the first
year program of improvements in eight project cities. This would cover about
23,000 households and cost about Rs 4.9 crores (US$3.6 million).
(e) Traffic and Transport. Preliminary engineering designs and
costs for prototype schemes for implementation in the first year of the
project have been completed. The estimated cost in FY 88/89 is about Rs 10.7
crores (US$ 7.7 million).
(f) Pallavan Transport Corporation. PTC is positioned to start
implementing about Rs 7.4 crores (US$5.3 million) of investment, mostly for
buses, in the PTC investment and operating program for FY 88/89, assuming
that the financial and operating prognosis for FY 88/89 is satisfactory.
5.13    Construction under the project is scheduled to be mainly implemented
over about 5 years, from 1988 through 1992. Total project costs are based on
the project funding a four to five year slice of the investment program
required by each agency to meet component objectives (Annex 13).
Expenditures would be incurred in the shelter components in the sixth and
seventh year of the project mainly on social facilities and plot purchase and
home expansion loans which must be executed after basic infrastructure has
been completed and plots have been marketed in the fourth and fifth project
years.
5.14    Schedules have not been provided for implementing the shelter or
traffic components from FY89/90 onward in individual project cities or for
individual schemes, since the large number of individual projects in each
component and each city would be identified on a continuous basis as the
project proceeds. The schedule for implementing the PTC bus component is
provided in the Implementation Report. The Project Management Group and City
Management Committees would be responsible for preparing annually programs of
specific projects for each component and assurances were given at nego-
tiations that these programs would be reviewed with IDA (OAP 1.03).
5.15    Given that the proposed project builds upon previous ones, the
advanced status of preparation and the project funding a "time slice" of
programs, rather than the usual eight to nine year profile for urban
projects, project completion in seven years would appear feasible. The
closing date is September 30, 1995.



-33-
C. Procurement
5.16    LCB and ICB procurement procedures under MUDP have been satisfactory.
However, the average size of contracts is still small compared to contract
sizes in other projects for major infrastructure and despite increases in
MUDP II contract package sizes (para 1.34,a,v). In addition, the Empowered
Committee (para 5.02) would reduce delays due to administrative reviews by
Government of Tamil Nadu Departments.
5.17    The total estimated value of contracts for civil works would be about
US$332 million (Rs 473 crores) of which about 45% would be for sites and
services schemes (Table 5.1). About 30% of the value of about 90 contracts
would be in the range of Rs 80-600 lakhs (US$0.56-4.2 million), mostly for
sites and services and traffic schemes; 15% of the value of about 100 con-
tracts would be in the range of Rs 60-80 lakhs (US$420-560 thousand) and the
remaining 55% of the value of about 1500 contracts, would be below Rs 60
lakhs, mostly in the range of 5-20 lakhs (US$35,000-140,000). Because of the
relatively small value of individual contract packages in all components,
their dispersal over a large number of sites in 10 cities and several
implementing agencies, the labor intensive construction methods and low cost
technology involved, these contracts would not be of interest to foreign
bidders and civil works contracts will be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding (LCB) with procedures acceptable to IDA.
Table 5.1: Procurement Arrangements by Category
(US$ Million)
Procurement Methods
Category                                    ICB      LCB      N.A. /a     Total
Cost
Land                                          -         -      19.4         19.4
Civil Works                                   -      332.0       -        332.0
(202.4) /b           (202.4)
Materials & Equipment                       34.3      16.5       -         50.8
(26.9)  ( 11.5)               ( 38.4)
LAND HEL Loans & CUD plot purchases           -         -      31.9        31.9
( 20.4)     ( 20.4)
Technical Assistance, Advisory &
Consulting Services, Training & PMG
& CMC Recurrent Expenditures &
Management Equipment                        -         -       9.6         9.6
( 8.7)      (  8.7)
Unallocated Contingencies                     -         -    ( 30.3)     ( 30.3)
Total              34.3    348.5      60.9       443.7
(26.9)  (213.9)  ( 59.4)      (300.2)
/a Not applicable.
7T Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the credit.



-34-
5.18    For procuring plant, equipment, vehicles and related spares, about
US$34 million would be awarded under international competitive bidding (ICB)
in accordance with Bank Guidelines. In evaluating bids for equipment and
materials, local manufacturers participating in international bidding would
be given a preferential margin equal to 15X of the c.i.f. costs of the com-
peting imports, or the existing rate of customs duty, whichever is lower.
The ICB contracts would mostly consist of contracts of about US$5.8 million
each for PTC buses and equipment. These normally would be procured annually
for a year's requirement and are likely to be won by local bidders. It will
not be possible to group most other plant and equipment procurement into
sufficiently large packages to interest foreign suppliers; small contracts
for equipment and materials not exceeding US$200,000 individually and
aggregating to about US$10 million would be let on the basis of LCB.
International or local shopping for a few items of equipment of a specialized
nature, where only a limited number of suppliers are involved, and up to an
aggregate amount of US$1.0 million, would be procured through normal commer-
cial channels after obtaining, whenever possible, quotations from at least
three suppliers.
5.19    Local competitive bidding procedures similar to those of MUDP have
been found generally acceptable. Several modifications to present procedures
have been proposed by IDA including (OAP 1.13): (a) increasing the financial
authority of various grades of engineers in The Housing and Slum Clearance
Boards and other implementing agencies (Chart 9); (b) replacing the present
system of open tenders with a system of selective tenders (short listing) for
contracts valued at more than Rs 60 lakhs; and (c) creating an additional
category of contractors financially and technically eligible to execute
contracts value at greater than Rs 60 lakhs and amending the current category
of contractors qualifying for contracts in excess of Rs 25 lakhs to make them
eligible for contracts in the range of Rs 24-60 lakhs.
5.20    Contract Review.  Assurances were given at negotiations that (i) all
bidding packages and bid evaluations for civil works estimated to cost
US$650,000 equivalent or more (Rs 85 lakhs) and for equipment and materials
estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent (Rs 25 lakhs) or more, would be
received and reviewed by IDA prior to bid issuance and award of contract;
(ii) bid evaluations for civil works contracts valued at US$450,000 -
650,000 (Rs 60 -85 lakhs) would be reviewed by IDA prior to award of
contract; (iii) each agency would submit the contract documents and bid
evaluation for the largest contract valued under Rs 60 lakhs and awarded
during each quarter to IDA for review; and (iv) the balance of contracts
would be selectively reviewed after contract award by IDA. All contracts
would be reviewed by the PMG and CMC in conformity with the provisions for
IDA review and such other additional arrangements which GTN may choose to
make.   Agencies would adhere to the above provisions for procurement review
during the period of retroactive financing.
5.21    Full review of about 302 of the value of civil works and equipment
and materials contracts and partial review of an additional 15X of the value
of civil works and equipment and materials contracts would be less than the
suggested guidelines. However, further aggregation of works contracts is
precluded by the project's programmatic nature, its geographical dispersion
and the varied nature of works by several agencies. The relatively low value



-35-
of the substantial but manageable number of LCB contracts to be reviewed is
therefore considered acceptable.
D. Disbursement
5.22    The amount of disbursements by quarter over a period of seven and a
half years are shown in Annex 15. No disbursements would be made against
land costs or taxes and duties in India. The proceeds of the credit would be
disbursed against:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment and
materials and 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally-
manufactured equipment and materials procured through ICB;
(b) 75% of expenditures for equipment and materials procured through LCB
or through quotations;
(c) 75% of expenditures on contract for civil works awarded under LCB,
or for expenditures on force account to build bus bodies in PTC's
workshop;
(d) 75% of expenditures on Home Expansion Loans and GTN purchases of GUD
serviced plots;
(e) 100% of expenditures for technical assistance, advisory services,
training, and the recurrent expenditures of the PMG and CMCs.
5.23    Disbursements for (a), (b) and (c) would be made against fully-
documented evidence of eligible expenditures for civil works contracts
exceeding US$460,000 (Rs 60 lakhs) value and equipment and materials exceed-
ing US$200,000 (Rs 25 lakhs) value. The Municipal Urban Development Fund
would disburse to municipalities against fully documented evidence of all
eligible expenditures.
5.24    Disbursements for (d), for civil works and equipment expenditures and
contracts not exceeding US$460,000 and equipment and materials expenditure
not exceeding US$200,000 and for technical assistance, sector management and
training expenditures, would be made against statements of expenditures
(SOE), the documents for which would not be submitted to the IDA, but
retained and made available for inspection during project supervision
missions, and subject to independent audits.   The Project Management Group
would be responsible for promptly obtaining and submitting disbursement
requests prepared by the City Management Committees and other implementing
agencies.
5.25    GTN would deposit an initial amount of Rs 10 crores (US$7.3 million)
to the MUDF in several tranches, to initiate the Fund. After GTN has made
daposits to the Fund, IDA would reimburse its share (75%). Subsequently, IDA
would receive full documentation of eligible expenditures as per para 5.22
(b) and (c) and 5.23 to justify the payments made.
5.26    Special Account.  To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account will
be established in US dollars in the Reserve Bank of India, with an authorized



-36-
allocation of US$14.6 million equivalent. This amount represents four months
estimated average project expenditure to be financed through the Special
Account, which would be replenished quarterly or whenever drawn down by about
50Z of its initial deposit, whichever occurs first, on receipt and approval
of withdrawal applications supported by the required documentation.
E. Accounts and Audits
5.27    Under MUDP, accrual accounting systems and related management infor-
mation systems were introduced in The Housing Board and the Madras Municipal
Corporation. The Tamil Nadu Water Supply & Sanitation Project provided for
improvements in accounts for water supply and sanitation operations in 3 of
the 4 largest project cities involved in the proposed project and smaller
cities outside of Madras. On the basis of consultant studies, recommenda-
tions have been made and would be introduced to improve The Slum Clearance
Board's management information systems and accounLs (OAP 4.15). Compliance
with audit covenants under MUDP in respect of general accounts and SOEs has
been generally satisfactory, with the strengthening by the State of the
auditing staff assigned to the implementing agencies, which would also imple-
ment the proposed project.
5.28    All implementing agencies would maintain separate project accounts,
including accounts of the Urban Development Fund and of Guided Urban
Development transactions. The Project Management Group and the City
Management Committees and MMDA in each project city would keep consolidated
accounts of all expenses connected with the project. The Housing and Slum
Clearance Boards would utilize and maintain revolving funds for sites and
services and slum improvement schemes created under MUDP, for those schemes
under the proposed project. The Municipal Urban Development Fund would
ensure that municipalities borrowing from the Fund would maintain separate
project accounts and would be audited annually within nine months of the end
of the fiscal year (OAP 7.11).
5.29    Assurances were given at negotiations that:  (i) project implementing
agencies would have their accounts and financial statements for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, except that only the
project accounts of implementing agencies other than The Housing and Slum
Clearance Boards and the Pallavan Transport Corporation, Madras and
Coimbatore Municipal Corporations, and Madurai, Salem and Trichy
Municipalities would be audited; (ii) for expenditures qualifying for reim-
bursement against SOE, independent auditors acceptable to IDA would annually
certify that the underlying documentation fully supports disbursement
requests; and (iii) audit reports, including audits of SOE, and financial
statements, except for those of municipalities other than Madras, Madurai,
Salem, Coimbatore, and Trichy, would be submitted to IDA within nine months
of the end of each fiscal year.



-37-
F. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.30    The Project Management Group and City Management Committees would
be responsible for monitoring the physical and financial prcgress of the
project and for ensuring that investment proposals prepared and implemented
by agencies conform to guideline objectives incorporated in prototype schemes
appraised by IDA. The Project Management Group and CMC would also ensure
that the performance is monitored in respect to estimated and actual fiscal,
social, marketing and pricing targets.
5.31    From monthly reports received from the City Management Committees and
from implementing agencies, the Project Management Group would prepare
monthly, quarterly and annual reports for the other managing committees and
prepare and submit ccnsolidated quarterly progress reports to IDA.
Computerized management information systems would be established by the
Project Management Group (OAP 1.04), City Management Committees and
implementing agencies (Annex 16).
5.32    Assurances were given at negotiations that: (i) IDA would receive
quarterly reports on the physical,financial and socio-economic progress and
prospects of the project; and (ii) an annual report on the progress of the
project, would be prepared and submitted to IDA within 9 months of the end of
each fiscal year, particularly in respect of (a) the shelter strategy objec-
tives for each city; (b) the internal cash generation and financial perfor-
mance of the Pallavan Transport Corporation, the Housing and Slum Clearance
Boards, and the Urban Development Fund; and (c) other key sectoral, financial
and operating objectives (OAP 1.02, 1.02, 1.17 and 1.19).
C. Supervision
5.33    An average of 18 staff weeks pet year of IDA Staff resources would be
required to supervise the project over the project implementation period
because the project aims to deliver services to numerous mostly poor urban
communities, through several agencies, and because of the new initiatives in
the project. The Project Management Group and City Management Committees
would carry an increasing amount of supervision responsibility in project
cities as the project progresses and IDA staff input would be commensurately
reduced.
H. Environment and Relocation
5.34    Environmental Considerations.  The overriding objectives of the
shelter and Municipal Fund components of the project are environmental in the
sense that they aim to provide improved neighborhood water supply,
sanitation, drainage and health facilities. Site designs would be required
to protect and, where possiole, enhance the water supply. Traffic and tran-
sport and bus improvements, which emphasize public transport and the reduc-
tion of travel distances, and the inclusion of a range of residential and
non-residential land uses in sites and services schemes, would have positive
effects on air quality and pedestrian safety.
5.35   ilelocation.  In the slum improvement component, a relatively small
number of households on right of ways for project road and drain alignments



-38-
and space required for community facilities would require relocation within
the existing community. Relocation under the slum improvement component
(para 2.16) would be tightly constrained and voluntary, affordable and equi-
table compensation would be provided to displaced households in the form of
cash or first priority rights to purchase plots in sites and services
schemes. The very small number of households (owners and possibly landless
workers) whose land would be purchased for sites and services schemes would
receive cash compensation under the Land Acquisition Act. Assurances were
given during negotiations that GTN would consider making formal arrangements
for these households to be offered compensation in the form of serviced plots
in project sites and services schemes (OAP 1.12).
VI. Project Justification
A. Benefits
6.01    Institutional benefits of the project would be:  (a) extending to the
whole state, the more efficient and equitable urban development policies
tested in Madras to cities containing more than 5u% of the state's urban
population; (b) generation of major resources from the cash surpluses of
implementing agencies to fund project costs and prove methods for replicating
programs for most components in the future; (c) strengthening of both state
and local government institutions for urban development management on the
basis of programs and policies and improving municipalities generation (by 20
to 50%) and allocation of resources by municipalities in the state through
the intermediation of a new, self-sustaining, municipal urban development
fund operating through a system of incentives and performance standards.
6.02    Shelter benefits of the project would be:  (a) producing a more than
two-fold increase in the public and private shelter supply, sufficient in
most project cities to arrest the growth of the absolute number of families
living in slums; (b) supporting new initiatives for involving the private
sector in the shelter supply for the poor and for reducing illegal parceliza-
tion of land; and (c)  reducing the  unit costs of the public and private
shelter supply by about 50%, through changes in the development control,
building regulations and engineering standards and by concentrating on ser-
vicing land rather than building construction.
6.03    In addition to improving urban transport, the transport and traffic
management benefits of the project would be: (a) rationalizing and making
agencies' choice of projects more consistent with GTN's policy objectives,
including priority to public transport and greater utilization of existing
investments; (b) strengthening procedures for fare revision and improving
the Pallavan Transport bus company's efficiency, accountability and
productivity, while maintaining acceptable though spartan low cost service
standards, affordable to the poor; and (c) reducing road user costs.
6.04    Without the project:  (a)  urban policies and objectives and
programs would be less sharply defined and the institutional provisions for
managing urban growth and measuring agencies' productivity and policy perfor-
mance would be weaker; (b) public shelter investments would be more costly
and benefit a smaller and minor proportion of the poor; (c) traffic and
transport projects would be less sensitive to public transport and pedestrian



-39-
needs and more inclined to wasteful, capital-intensive civil works;
(d) Madras bus services would be less efficient, more costly and over-crowded
and possibly require un-necessary and regressive subsidies; and (e) stand-
ards for municipal financial and service performance would be weaker.
B. Impact on the Poor
6.05 Project benefits to poor people in the shelter components would be
substantial. Among the total number of about 880,000 people
(176,000 households) directly benefiting from the shelter components,
accounting for about 47% of total project cost, there would be: (a) about
580,000 people (62% of beneficiaries) with incomes at or below the poverty
line; (b) another 130,000 low income people (15% of beneficiaries) just above
the poverty line (Annex 17).
6.06    In the shelter components, the average cost to the public per poor
beneficiary would be: (a) Sites and Services (LAND) - Rs 3180/capita
(US$223); (b) Guided Urban Development (GUD) - Rs 2565/capita (US$180) but
the public costs for all households benefited by GUD would be 40% of that for
sites and services, because the developer pays the costs of construction for
higher income households in GUD schemes; and (c) Slum Improvement (SIP) - Rs
855/capita (US$60).
6.07    About 35% of sites and services cost, 90% of guided development cost
and 75% of slum improvement component cost would be spent on facilities for
the poor.
6.08    The Transport and Urban Development Fund components, accounting foo:
the remaining 53% of project costs, would also directly benefit a substantial
number of poor people.  About 40% of the 3.4 million daily riders of PTC
buses would be in low income groups below or near the poverty line. A
similar percentage of the poor would be benefited by: (a) traffic schemes
because of their policy orientation on public transport, pedestrian and slow
moving vehicles and the predominant role of buses, carrying about 80% of
person vehicle trips in the project cities; anu (b) Urban Development Fund
schemes, the majority of which are likely to be for low-cost water, sanita-
tion and drainage schemes in un-serviced lower income neighborhoods.
6.09    Employment.  The employment generation effects of the project would
be substantial; 9,000 jobs, largely for unskilled labor, would be directly
generated during the project construction period. This is equivalent to
about 19% of the new jobs which would have to be created in project urban
areas annually, to provide employment for a 2.5% per year urban population
growth rate. About 9,000 more jobs would be generated in the construction of
houses on plots and the production of building materials by the private
sector over a longer period of time than the project construction period.
C.  Economic Evaluation
6.10 The average economic rate of return is estimated on the prototype
shelter sites to be about 20%. Economic benefits of the sites and services
component are taken as the estimated rental value of serviced residential,
institutional, industrial and commercial plots and, of the upgrading



-40-
component, as the increase in rental values resulting from project improve-
ments and provision of tenure. The costs, net of taxes, include shelter
loans and all costs for land, infrastructure and community facilities. The
economic rate of return for additional sad replacement PTC buses was
estimated to be greater than 21% and 12% respectively, with fares taken as
a proxy for benefits, costs estimated net of taxes and duties and labor and
foreign exchange shadow prices taken respectively at 0.8 and 1.5 times
nominal rates. Health benefits, households' benefits from renting out space
and the benefits of time saved by households from improved access to water
and sanitation and other urban facilities would also be derived from the
project, but have not been quantified. The rate of return on prototype
traffic management and transport schemes averages over 12% per year using
conservative estimates of the value of time.
D. Risks and Safeguards
6.11    The major risks and the related measures taken to safeguard against
them are noted below.
(a) The first risk concerns the capacity of the Project Management
Group and City Management Committees to maintain an adequate standard of
review and management, particularly for the Urban Development Fund and tran-
sport and traffic projects, and to manage a project spread over a number of
towns, agencies and components.  Offset against this risk are the good MUDP
experience of most of the proposed project implementing agencies; MMDA's
established capacity in Madras for managing project components covering over
50% of project cost; the early establishment of the Project Management Group
with MUDP-experienced staff, project policy management institutions and
strong State commitment to project objectives.
(b) Second, there has historically been a lack of support for cost
recovery policies and there could also be erroneous projections of costs and
revenues, particularly in respect of the Pallavan Transport Corporation and
the Housing and slum Clearance Boards, which would effect the generation of
cash surpluses and the availability of funds for project implementation.
Offset against this risk are, in the case of the Pallavan Transport
Corporation, the creation of the Bus Fare Expert Committee and the use of
conservative assumptions about productivity, inflation and fare revenues;
GTN's previous experience with a small Town and Country Planning Fund similar
to the Urban Development Fund; and a high level of GTN awareness of the
danger to the project funding plan of not supporting the cost recovery
objectives.
(c) Unforeseen legal and other obstacles could also constrain the
implementation of the new nitiatives to implement shelter schemes involving
the private sector and to _mplement the Urban Development Fund.  To offset
this risk, early contacts were initiated with private parties for Guided
Development schemes, from whom favorable reactions have been obtained.
(d) Delays in acquiring the balance of land required for the (LAND)
sites and services program have limited the execution of many urban projects.
To offset this risk, 67% of the land for this component has been acquired
(para 2.08) and GTN is aiming to have 80% in hand by the end of 1988. In



-41-
addition, the Empowered Committee would act to speed acquisition of the
balance of land (para 5.02).
VII. Agreements Reached and Recommendations
7.01    The following agreements were obtained:
(a) Terms and conditions of Municipal Urban Development Fund lending to
municipalities would be satisfactory to IDA (para 2.09).
(b) The qualifications of consultant and advisors and terms and condi-
tions of their employment would be satisfactory to IDA (para 2.10).
(c) (LAND) sites and services schemes would be implemented only on sites
which are satisfactory to IDA (para 2.12).
(d) About IOZ of the slum improvement component would be implemented for
households on privately owned land (para 2.17).
(e) Plavs, layouts, engineering designs and standards and development
and building regulations applied in sites and services, guided urban
ds-velopment, and slum improvement schemes would be acceptable to IDA
(para 2.19).
(f) In respect of sites and services, guided urban development, and slum
improvement schemes, Tamil Nadu would recover fully all chargeable
costs and terms and conditions of leases and that of home improvement
loans and beneficiary selection procedures would be satisfactory to
IDA (para 4.12).
(g) The Government of Tamil Nadu would maintain the Empowered Committee,
Project Managemen- Group, and City Management Committees throughout
the period of project execution (para 5.06).
(h) The Pallavan Transport Corporation would maintain an average operat-
ing ratio of less than 0.98; fund 20% of its average annual invest-
ment program from internal cash generation; be reimbursed two times
per year at the rate of 70Z by the Government of Tamil Nadu, for its
loses on subsidized student riders; would pay principal and interest
due on GTN loans funded by IDA (para 5.11,b); and could, if
necessary, treat existing GTN non-IDA loans as permanent loans on
which only interest would be paid.
(i) (i) All bidding packages and bid evaluations for civil works
estimated to cost US$650,000 equivalent or more(Rs 85 lakhs) and for
equipment and materials estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent (Rs
40 lakhs) or more, would be received and reviewed by IDA prior to bid
issuance and award of contract; (ii) Bid evaluations for civil
works contracts valued at US$460-615,000 (60-80 lakhs) would be
reviewed by IDA prior to award of contract; (iii) The balance of
contracts would be selectively reviewed after contract award by IDA;
and (iv) Each agency would submit the largest contract valued under



-42-
Re 60 lakhs and awarded during each quarter to IDA for review (para
5.20).
(j)  (i) Project implementing agencies would have their accounts and
financial statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA, except that only the project accounts of
implementing agencies other than TNHB, TNSCB, PTC, Madras and
Coimbatore Municipal Corporations, and Madurai, Salem and Trichy
Municipalities would be audited; (ii) For expenditures qualifying for
reimbursement against SOE, independent auditors acceptable to IDA
would annually certify that the underlying documentation fully sup-
ports disbursement requests; and (iii) audit reports, including
audits of SOE, and financial statements, except for those of
municipalities other than Madras, Madurai, Salem, Trichy and
Coimbatore would be submitted to IDA within 9 months of the end of
each fiscal year (para 5.29).
(k) Tamil Nadu will carry out the project substantially in accordance
with the Operational Action Plan (para 2.05).
7.02    Retroactive financing of up to US$10.0 million would be provided for
eligible expenditures incurred after November 1, 1987 for civil works,
materials and equipment, consulting and advisory services, training and
project management and coordination by the PMG.
7.03    On the basis of the above agreements, the project would be suitable
for an IDA Credit of SDR 216.5 million (US$300.2 million) to India.



-43-
ANNEX 1
INDIA
TAMIL NADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Slum Households in MKA - Income Distribution, 1987
-(Rs7/lonth/Household)-
Households
Income Class           Zone I    Zone II    Zone III    Zone IV       Average
Z         Z           2           X        in MKA (Z)
Up to 100                0.8       0.5         0.7          0.6         0.62
100 -  250              1.4       4.4         4.2         2.9          3.53
251 -  400             14.6      22.4        22.8         17.4        20.02
401 -  600             40.0      29.8        37.5         32.1        33.51
601 -  800             20.6      15.2        17.6         18.6        17.62
801 - 1000             10.3      12.0         8.4         11.9        10.75
1001 - 1500              9.4      11.4         6.7         11.1         9.73
1501 - 2000              1.7       2.6         1.2         3.5          2.43
2001 - 3000              0.9       1.2         0.6          1.5         1.10
3001 - 4000              0.3       0.2         0.2         0.3          0.24
4001 - 6000              0.0       0.2         0.1          0.1         0.12
Above 6000               0.0       0.1         0.0          0.0         0.03
100.0     100.0       100.0       100.0         100.0
====      __ _= _                             170_720
No. of HoQuseholds    15,253    43,539      50,373      61,555       170,720



-44-
UOIA                                             ANNEX 2
TAM NADU tMH VEVELCPh!NT PRUECT
e6wli of lkym PocUcd
Urn Agglomerdton     Type No. PopuNlton(O0O)    Growth   % of Urban
Locl 6Nant                       1971   1981  (hwy)  1971  1981
I MADoAS                             3170   4289   307   25.4  26.9
MWIP                Mc      1    2573   3266    27
Tlrvowyur           M       1             134    6.2
AtAr                n       1              97    5.0
Panvownm            I       1              84    6.3
Tatbaram            M       1              87    4.8
Timruwiref          TS      1              17    32
Av4d                TS      1             125    6.1
KattWIvkan          TS      1              22    3.7
AmbftAtr            TS      1             116   120
"owl                TS      I              10   12.0
tMadirn             tS      1              33    5.6
Ova                 TP    13              298
2 COII8ATPE                           736    920    23    59    se
CountOr             MIC      1     565    700    22
Oth                  tP    10              220
3 MIADRAI                             711    908    25    5.7   5.
I'ditat              nt      1     634    818    2.6
Olher    I           TP,S   5               90
4 TIPUCHIRAPALL                       465    610    28    37    38
Trtciy               M       1             361    2.1
Srlnwm               I       1              64
Pownmali             M       1              56
OUer                         5             129
5 SALEMI                              416    S19    2.2   3.3   3.3
Salem                M       1     309    361    1.6
5.rmmqplun           M       1              27
6 TIRJELVELI                          267    323    1.9   2.1    20
Tiruneell            (       1             129    1.7
.   lIwpalayanm      (       1              55
Palyafttali          I       1              87
Other                TPWS   4               49
7 EROOE                               170    276    50    1 4    17
Erode                M       I     lOS     142    3.1
OUtr                 TP      5
a TUTICOR                             182    251    3.3   1.5   1.6
Tuticrn               1      1             193    2.2
Other                TP                     58
9 VELLOP                              178    247    33    14    15
Vellore              11      1             174    23
Othe                 TP      6              73
10 TIRIPPUR                           151    216    3.6   1.2   1.
Tiripour             M       1             165    3.8
Other                TP      4              51
UA SUb-TOTAL                      6446   8559    29   51.7  53.7
IOtherurbanAreas                    6014   7391    2.1  48.3  463
TOTAL URAN                       12460  1SM       2.5  1C.0  100.
12 TOTAL TAmIL NADU                 41199  48408    1.6  30.2  32.9
Note: MC * tIcipal Corp.   TP  - Town Pa&chyat
I  * Murnncipalty   TPIS - Town Pmchyst & Towmnahs
TS * Townhip



-45-                            ANNEX 3
TABLE 2.1s Shelter Strategies
(Amounts in thousands)
Years
MANRO           1987 1988 1989 1990 1991  1992 1993 1994 1995
I Population               5495 5532 sm   5918 6065 6217 6373 6532 6695
2  Howsholds               1099 1126 1155 1164 1213 1243 1275 1308 1339
3  Incremental Hhlds               27   26   29   30   30   31   32   33
4  Convontional Supply              11   14   14   15   15   16   17   18
5  YearlyDeficit                   t6   14   15   15   15   15   15   IS
6  Cumulative Backlog       178  194  209  224  236  253  268  283  290
7  Backlog            (Z)    16   17   18   19   20   20   21   22   22
TNUDP Strateav:
6    LAND                                 5    7    7    7    9
WUO                                 2    2    2    4    2
9    Other: LAND&  UD                                     . 8   10  - 23   25
10   TNUOP: SIP                           5   10   12   18
11   Other SIP                                            10   31   34   37
12   Cumulative Backlog     176  194  197  205  217  208  214  224  235
13   Backlog          (2)    16   17   17   17   18   17   17   17   18
Assumptions
Pons/hhld                5.0      Growth Rate: Pop  (X/Yr)  2.5
Growth TNHB &TNSC8 non-I 10.0     Growth Conm SupDlv(YJyr:  S.0
MADURAI          1987 1988 1989 1990 1991  1992 1993 1994 1995
1 Population               1067 1096 1125 1156 1187 1219 1252 1286 1320
2  fouseholds               216 221.6 227.6  234 240.3 246.8 253.4 260.3 267.3
3 lncremntal Hhlds                  6    6    6    6    6    7    7    7
4  Conwnttonol Supply               4    4    4    5    5    5    5    6
i5  Yearly Offelt                   2    2    2    2    2    2    1    1
B  Cwmulat1ve Backlog        Of   83   C5   8S   88   70   71   73   74
7  Backlog           (1)    26   28   28   26   28   28   28   26   28
TNUDP Stratsea_
8    LAND                                       1    2    2    3
CUD
9    Othor: LAND & GUD                                           3    7    7
10   TNUDP:SIP                                 1    3    4    6
11   Other SIP                                                         8    9
12   Cumulative Backlog      61   63   65   64   63   64   59   58   586
13   Bocklog         (M)   28   26   28   28   26   26   23   22   22
AssumDftonso
Persons/hhld                         4.9      Growth Rate: Pop  (W/yr)  2.7
Growth TNHN &TNSCB non-IDA crams    10.0      Growth Conv SuDDRy(;Yr' 5.o0



TAMIL NADU URBAN OEVELOPMENT PROJECT                      [   I                                                                     i               __  __
OPERATIONAL ACTION PLA                                    [                             otinues d         onth__
Thoe flowing            t  _        _   anionts.t wi  be ud                               C    a  A coveuo ou -
as a tool for moniton  progress In prod  Ianpemenlaton and could            _                  a  Primary ae.onslitv             S SemiAnu
I =ibe lurthof amended as agre durbg revw mhmons.             ="O =. =                                     ec   av_mbit                     ,.nne!lr
ISECTORISUB-COMPONENT   (Ladt rlslon: 4*W-                                      -Wo~nillt--                         -    --       hPd
I                                                                                                     s onsiltl                       ITImI __=-__Tmnt
__ = Protam Mangement and InstItutlons                         Acns ax N3 ft                                 TNflts : M 01 A
- C  Uncl=rtalke tom m a  a                                                             =        I     =     == PTC operating a     of _0.6.  AIr -   -
kiwenmt cash geration equaling 20% of average annual
_   _   lnvestmnt program.
-   &   Endeavor to adopt simIlr develonent stategies and      IL    =-       =    =g.   -   -          =    =
_dandards for diterent sources    1undhig or slum
___  __ improvement.
W_  Undeatk to alcate land in TNir p__essoninpolet                             -                                      _         _ 
cities first to TNUDP  sctemes.
UN UO ndedakel to knplewwnt abou 10% of SOP lcr households    17   -Agreed 
on privaoely owned hM In MMA.                                                  …___ 
6    IUN Undertake that LAN, GUD and SIP site seictmn, plas     nL                 A__== _
llayouts, deosn and standards wil be saMilactoryr to IDA. _-
1.01 =   Strenthen managmet capability of TNHB and TNSCB                             n    n      I      =    = II               IIr89
___  ___ in planning and fInance.
1.02  _  Prepare Summary Prgress Repons for GTN & IDA.          - -    n                -.
1.03     Prepare Annual Repord  n Program Perlmanice B               -  1      n I *    .   * I               *            *    I              x I_Spn
_ sogess duthg the etw and forecasts tor Ihe comng     _         _              _
year and aVeth  prec pedod.
1.04  =  Estabibh compeAized systems to monitor construction,.            n    n     I Ln    n   IL     =                    nI  -      I I      I I            Dee-0B
lexpndume, contracts, disbursement cdaims and reo
I_or aln components.…- - | |
1.05 _   Endeavor to institute advane procedutes tor land      tfl   i         *                                                                             A s -
laca4uSion  r luture LAND schemes in areas af
_   _ o _creared by proosed road and other… rnaor
inrastmoructure schemes.
10    _RePort on Lend acqulaklon status kabr allcmponaent.  -n L.~    1!                                                            xi...ii  J............
106 _                                                                                              __ _ 1/ _    e-_ < * | IX|Xt {X sB
Sille     ,3,,



-.07     Submnt Prompty. daim  for reimbursement from IDA.               I =. I                                                   I     x   I I I               cOdmi
1.08  _  Ensuem lney submsion of aenclS    exipefdt      dalms. -_                                                                      xi -  ……CoAnthuadll
1.09 =   ObtaIn  pe  assn f_or design mnd momflorin_                          n      __
_ _tandat  point d vew tndudhn:
_ la awoiding enolreering advisor/conulanls for let  -          n   _I..  _         _         _    _    _____                             _           sEt
yewr d pwobc on iner aim l1) enileerlng; (2) tmaffic    __
M_    _  m transport; d 3) tMOF P faS i        =    =    =                                                                       ______
(b) sel    adpprt cours _: n pepan                              n            ii  _        -            _ _                                _ _____
teasibfit  studies and: (liii ds_aild deign and co=t-                                                                     _
of PUG-sanUoned ad_w                                             _
(c) bing forward  r as fo the prgqiiallicalgon of    _    _     nL  _    _          _
cons_ancy _1mw tor techrical mwsdance  as    ts    ___
for the muic-----.
I _ d) Retain consultants to assist In studies possibly  |   =    =   =    =                                                                             Dec=8
incldng: surveys on V servines. fmt, orgarnatIon.
bus routen, opinion gunen on V sss, opertInal__
casting (to dllry aewise. bodywilding costs tc). _____
econoinic cm  tor Feniiiwbw WIS, compiuerIafIon,j
_    _     ~~~staff t_af  a traitk condEbn maniterin      r gi_                                            _              __  
1.10     Draft G.O.to exied  transfer of assts  rested under     -    n    n   _    _           _un48
_ TNUOP to responsibe agecies. G.O. to incude requiente…- _            _    _    _   _           _
h_at Depattments malke budgeuary provm.,m for this.
1.11     Develop and Iympment adquate melhods of measwring       -    -       r…                                                                -___              M-S
private sector sheller carfomance and secodora  inD   _ oi     __
-the project.
1.121    In respect to households rquirintg |eocalon (  cd                                                                                                      As m _--i -|i|d
owners and landless wotkts). wose bd woudd be takenI
over though and acquisition,     surveys and consider
mtaklng formal airangements for off etng compensation to
bousetiolds in the form of serviced pits bi project sites  |  _   _
and srvices schemes.
1        .13 __   o                                             -                                                                        - -  - -
Ial etabaising grade of contractor bi TNHB register d  _     n |       =          n   =   =    =                                                         Jun-SO
I     contractors who after examination by apptoprafe
authorkies can demontrate a lecdnni; and financial
c_acidty to camy out wors   > 60 laki__.
- (b) inreasa   sanctioning powers d TNHI  engineers.                                                                                - - _  _   __t      Jun-88
=(c) authorising Regional Oy.Directors.Town Planning to  -    nu*      _                                                                                 D_!-SO
apprWe TNHB layouts cnfoarmin to TNUDP LAND                                                                                                          D - _    _ _    I1   I
satlandard far PMG review.
l(d) introducing a selective tender procedure for TNHB.      *         - .        - n    _       - _    _    _                                           Dec-se
_   SCB and DHRW contracts > Rs 60 takls.
(= ) reduce contractor response period to 4 weeks      -               =              ii _    n  _    _            I    I                               Jun-O|
for all contracts - Rs 60 lakhs.                 I_I                                                                 -    --   -                  _               0U 1
(I) increasing conitactual authority ot various grades of ……………………                                                                                       Dec88S
otticers in implementing agencies, to award contracts                                                                                               D c -  - -"



-48-                           Annex 4
Page 3
a   -~~~e A-
IIIII'I X               .11   11111
la 
II  II    r   I  11A IA
1111 1      P1 I  II   I I I I   I.Is
_ Lj l lu l           
_~~~~~i _1i      _________        



I I     LANDDEVELOPMENT(LAND)                              I     1.0 EC         N     Ba DIRM PTC NW DTCPI OW          IMPAS M__c_:_* _  a   _
accordance wih       standardt,  sbt izes &……a l         _         _
imlr t thoUe etabihed for LAND schms, with a view        _    _   _    _
to minhimlzbn average cost per uniw  & maximisng Dbs pet.  =   =    =   =    _
roess ame of site.                                       _
2.02 U0N  ;onsider brmuld wangD  w     Devec_8t COMOI              n    n                                                                                 D==_8
_Rules and Bulen  Regutalouan ether teebvant                                                                           -   _ _  _ _
urn toencoursag  the natiait ialn of privte
=elo. =n soekes and sr         ms 1 hra u =h=-ghos_
_TamilNadu.                                                 _        _     _    __                   
2.03 __  Reve  and roll over fIl and qorti   plan.                                                                                     I  x                      f 
= __ _= =_=___=_=_=_=_= =___= =_=________                                                                                               .a, .IsnY.
2.04 __Revise land acquIskiton, avallablllty & suitability forecasts                                                         __-ix I N                       a___  Oct
2.05 _   Expecite alnanlon d Govt. lAed  reqd for TNUDP.      _         A  - _    n   _         _
Z.06 _   Praepre ptogrese repots for CIC and P    en ihanW_.x
= =phylcal, mwatetin, estate transactbn   house               _         _    __                                 
aoonstudb   coolechom and mabintenance._                           _    __                            _    _          
__               .                         .                    _A- __ __  _                                __ 
2.07        Review Desin Briel for conlorfItY with Guidelie   =    -    n                                                                                A s_… .   _ == -
oblectives.
2.08     R DetI use f serced s_es for relocation of huts                                                       =    =                            -       As
af= =elin  _aematbn of prolets funded under the                                      _ _
proect. to 5% of the ses available at any time and o the do _ _    _    _                             _
= le  number f sites available.                          =
2.09     Try exper_Iwna sectons o precast concrete drain and  I    _        _                             … _  _         _       I  _ _        _           Dec-8
tar and cI road soa gdng on early sie.
2.10 __ Tn, iTy   some expeintl plots wIth Ventilated Improed          -         A _    n                                                        -       Jan40_
Pit latrines on apprepriate site.                                                                                          - _    _
2.11  =      Test soil charisterlets in each proposed LAND sie for  |    -_       A_
CBR vdues ltor road design) and porosity, water table etc.
(to estabish sidity for lw cost sanitation) a report I
Ihdhg. In Detdgn BrDes.                                  =_
2.12  =  Uahlaln r     anddrans dudng perodfd house                                                                                                     As =_    _
Ion a construct final sxtace and drains on
=ond onp ht house construdion.
12.13 _CN Revincom lel of LAND, SIP and GUD b        ienefiIay          Ix                                                                                              t
I   I=     uin accordance wIth                s.……  = =====__
-  4                                                                                         511/88



III     G UIDED DEVELOPMENT (GUD)                             S = .C  3 C|C     PNC .    -  OM WD                           M OS_  Al
3.01    FhS ale awppove gu       ter invhtian #or GUD Piu                                                                                         Achisved
dsvern schme   tha  evwaduulon ard sidn.
3.02 __       pnd    t e xdhlins ml  an L_ {Cs-c m. b asis                                                                                       Ascmls  __o&.
lunder SWc. 21 l the U.b anLud (Cellbi £ RewdL81ni Ad                                                                                             I
dle  oper s_ t  #h   pmd byr MMA  NW
to the  duim.
3.03 _   dnly wvu of pie_ent   iad _I    4msvon d lnd.   = J  Jj   * _                                                               _   _ _
$.1
S                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sma.



IV      I SLUM IMPROVEMENT  (SIP)                            I  EC     I |SGICMr.                PTeC HPC DTCP D. A FWD  c nil U    - A            -
4.01 =   RevIse and rol over iwnacal and opeiating plan.      =                                                                          - =   ====__       St,ut o
________________  __________                  _c F_ _ch Fmn Yr
4.02 _   Apro ve the prking system, and consider reducing      n   .   =   _                                                                                Au-8
the restriton on sale d hLds to bebw 16 yeaws.
4.03 _    ncrase plo pes from time to tim  to re_e chans= -                                                                                                As…=    =   = =  _  rd
I   lin average imwovement costs, exc   that pldes not to
lexceed affordabl limits and rangs indicated in appraised            _    _         _         _   _
_ p cng scheme.                                     |      _    _         _                                                          _
4.04 _  Prepre & subml to IDA  Program d next yeaes ities and                      -    n         =   __              =__                   x                 ion
ne_i_booods-
4.05  _  Prepare progress rports for CM  and PM  on Ihanda     _    _    _         ___                                                    X
physicatl marketing, estate transactions collections                      -                                                _
and maintenance.
4.06   _ Condud surveys to identiy nelgbo4hood socIo-conol             _  JL                                                                  ______    Dec-88
_conditins In MASCOT and VEM  urban agglomerations.
4.07  =  Prepare annual Storm Dralns program d projiects.                                                                n      _ I      _  x                  ion
4.08  _  Prepare Storm Drains master pins for project cihies.…_                ___                                     n    n ....                         As required-
4.09 =  Try  some experimeal plots with ventilated improved                                       _                                           _              Jan-se
pt latrines on appropriate site_____
4.10        Initate changeover lo accruals basis of accountmg and  =    =    =     n                                                                         Jun-89
appoint consultants to prepare otnline proposals pro to   _   _      _                                                              _
a dedsion on impkmentalion of new system.            =    =    _         =    =        _                                    _ 
4.11 __Review mangemerd information system proposalB made by                       IiSp8
l_onsuitant which are still oulstanding and bring forward tor        _ -            _   _   _    _    _                                _
laction.                                            li ::-    
4.12 _ T et soil charactetistics in each proposed SIP righborhood for   _                                                                                  As_  nukied.
p rosty, water table etc. to establish suitability for_low_cost      ___
sanitation & repett choice for each slum to PMG and IDA.   -   =  -                 _   _   _    _    _                                               
413 _     a) Endeavor to ensure that TNSC8s aciMites are not    A_  _q =                                         …=    nd =                   __As_d.
expanded during the project lit. to the detrim-enl d    I             _         _        _ 
the SIP or the financial vibilty d TNSCB.         -   =    =   =                                                               - =_  -_      .
_ _ b) linit annuai expenditure on sium improvement-  -    _         _    _    _    _                                                                  
mcum-tenement program duuirg the project pedto                                                                                   _
about Rs 3.75 crores and to unis required for  |      =    =   =    =    =    = =                       = =              __
households hi areas which cannol be improved In situ.
4.14 _   Review with IDA annual investment plan, budgel a    I                __…_ __                                                        x     _       ___1£
operatlons targets                                  |_________
_-…_ _  .  . .  _         _    _    _   _          __
6                                                                                              511188



V        I=RANSPORT A TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT (TRAM                  ICPI   E8.0  1 iCMCTNE    IMN S PIC NW 'no  DM- FWD  Mc            ! :nltn    Ml C  Sl   A IB
5.01  _   nsure that:                                          _                            I n                                                              As= _... u  _   _n
(= i  tcma raw rwnt  andtrnpOrtsr       are         =    =    _   =
_ praised and pepared hi accodac wih Guidelrne… _ _
obiedhws. procedumes and standwards  hienioatod…-- 
nh prototwe schtemes- _d                                               __
(ii) mlet  design       a     b     udes are…d an       _- _ we
_Inaired by Om PMG hI em on  wi  IDA.            _  
S._0      2,i =        itud                       hr prolect CieS.                                                                                           As =_
5.03 =_ Prepare _tl gprom eron of   ad NtaWik   mmtf    prows,….11.                                = =                                         x ____ __  _ _X _n
5.04 __ Re_ew & ancdion sch_am                                 _  _  n_…_ _
.05 _          mgm  outi md P                                        _onf…                         - _       - _  _  _  _       __  X_ _
_* _-hde   rfii and ma _tnac.                    _      _… _                                                  _     _        
5.06 d__             iaCmp  ithrmou sir suro                         -    J b  =    -  -  - =           - =        - =       -  - =  =  = _           - _ _    S88
curent land use  polental road MsM eMc.
S.07  =  p        subm_it to IDA stalt t    pa  In hacheme   =    =    =                                                                              -        De-48
assessment.                                           _
5.08  =  Review traic reuatbion and maie recommendatb=ns to          - _                   =      _      _…-                                                   D8e-9S
enhance cpacity and uesty.                           _…
5.09 =   Establish and eauip taffic management cells and deveWp   =    ==                                                                       _               Dec88
TM strategis.
5.10     Descabe and make recornmendatansre ednq road                    …I…n _                                                n       _   _   _  _x           Feb089
maintenance (and reinistatemne_ s)routr_s and
responsibilities.
5.11 __ Prepsre proposals lor street lighting standards and     ==                            _n_I__                                                           DOc-8s
related projects.
5.12 _  Prepare proposab for monHorhg air qualitylvcutitY                                  _ . n    n                                            _______    Dec-SO
in area with major conoenrations d emhsiom from
= tranrt and industrial sources.
41-
7                                                                                                 /51118



VI  -   PALLAVAN TRANSPORT CORPORATION (PTC)                    E EC  .qr       0U - 1-l NM       PTC WM-D r-MMFl              WItaneit M 0    A
6.01  C  Esiabb budgetait pvibn and mai mrebursemens                                               … n                                     - n              TwiT  a
_  _     o PTC d bsams an sdet conoesslom  at mt. d 70% d.           -T
maximum  ices._                                                                                                                                            _
6.02_   Revise ad extend   a lan d    op erat     pan. estbsh   .                                                     n  _    _                                      Fb
_ lei slon. and propweorePorb planng document.    =
lincud   tinangcal and operating tugets.
6.03  _    xtend mande of Bus Fare EmPeit Commille. Reiew and             _   _    _           _x   x                                                         Nov  an
_    -  advise BTN on PTC operathgandW icandale.ommwanosand  _    _
___    tare reison requiremnts to meet financral and operatin__
__  __  targets agreed whh IDA.                                               _
6.04     Prepare detailed progress repons for CMC and PMG on finncaJ.          _                                             - n_ _ _    x    x  __
land phwsical progrems.
605  _  Undeiiale study of ral  de-centrallzaton ol PTC.        =    =    =   _                                                                                Dec-
6.06 _ Undtake study of wage c           agreem.                                                                                  *  __                        Jun-80
6.7      Deveop proposals tar    oig marngemenr hInormation    =-                                                                               _      _       Doe-S
==__________=-_ ____   _  yst.. _
6.08 -Restore rouine mnIorig of bus loumey dmes, and or             …- =    =    =_                                                           _    _           Doc-S
-    -  appnh consultants to develop monitorig ronties.         …--_
8                                                                                               5/t 188



-54-                              Annex 4
Page 9
E.
_I _121 _    II    I I 2 I   Sti 9I II
3vc                                      I 1ILa I
a                         -TXfL 
S           I I~~ ~~ I         :IlLI  :
5. .  . _- _.
.1                      0        
j~~~ cJi I            jo   I I oo°1



-55-
ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
TAMIL NADU URBAN DEVBWPME1UT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Studies, Training and Equipment
Organization
Responsible
A. Institutional
MUDF
Studies and technical assistance:
1.  of the feasibility of a variety of municipal           Municipalities
projects, including remunerative schemes, for          PMG & CMC
financing under the MUDF or TRAMP components           DMA & DTCP
2.  to prepare and update municipal financial and          Municipalities
operating plans, including needs assessments,
particularly for the VETTTs and MMC.
Training:  of staff related to the above                   Municipalities,
CMC & DMA
Other
Urban Development studies and technical assistance:
1.  of fiscal and investment factors impacting on           GTN/PD & FD
urban economic development in TN with special
reference to income distribution effects in
urban and rural areas
2.  to develop a set of leading, lagging and coincident   GTN/PD & FD
indicators for economic activity in the project areas.
3.  to prepare a computerized mapping and urban             PMG, MMDA,
data base.                                              cMc
4.  of household income distribution in the project         CMC
cities.
5.  to develop integrated environmental improvement         PMG, MMDA,
programs for Madras, the MOM and the VETTTs.            CMC



-56-                           ANNEX 5
Page 2
Organization, management and financial studies:
6.  for implementing and coordinating agencies to         Municipalities,
improve management information systems, accounts       PMG, CMC, etc.
and performance.
Training: related to the above.
B. Shelter
LAND
Studies and technical assistance:
1.  to plan long-term land acquisition programs            MMDA, CMC
related to proposed major new infrastructure
projects--particularly ring roads, terminals,
ports, water and sanitation system extensions, etc.
2.  to prepare and further develop shelter                 PMG, MMDA,
strategies for UAs, particularly the VETTTs.           CMC
3.  to prepare management information systems for          Agencies,
civil works contract information.                      PMG, CMC
4.  regarding laws, regulations and other factors          PMG
to facilitate cooperative housing societies.
5.  of the indirect and direct employment arising          PMG
from land development and building construction
in LAND, SIP and TRAMP scheme.
Training in:
TNHB, TNSCB,
1.  Civil works contract analysis                          DHRW, etc.
2.  Management of civil works contracts                    TNHB, TNSCB,
implementation                                         DHRW, etc.
3.  Low cost sanitation technology                         TNHB, TNSCB
CUD and LASER
Studies and technical assistance:
1.  in each project city, surveys of the location,         MMDA, CMC
extent & characteristics of illegal subdivision.
Training for staff in methods and procedures for           CMC
managing guided development and landsharing/readjustment
schemes.



-57-                       ANNEX 5
Page 3
SIP
Studies and technical assistance:
1.  in each project city, surveys to identify slum          CMC, TNSCB
neighborhoods, socio-economic and health conditions
for scheme preparation
C. Transport
TRAMP
Studies and technical assistance:
1.  to develop traffic assignment models appropriate        CMC, DHRW
to the project cities and in each project city,         Municipalities
to prepare medium-term traffic management
strategies
2.  to identify and prepare long list of priority           CMC, DHRW
projects for the other five smaller UAs, the            Municipalities
VETTS
3.  of the capacity of various types of roads in            DHRW, CRC
Tamil Nadu city conditions.
Training of staff in traffic management planning            DURW
and design.                                                 Municipalities
PTC
Studies:
1.  of route rationalization, including further modeling       PTC
of the network and development of in-house capacity
for route modeling;
2.  of the wage contract system to explore possibilities       PTC
for links with productivity and merit, with the
Sept. 1989 wage contract in mind
3.  to prepare financial and operating models for other        PTC
13 TN bus companies;
4.  of bus life cycle replacement costs;                       PTC
5.  regional re-organization study (North & South);            PTC
6.  transport users' opinion and market surveys.               PTC
Training of staff regarding the above.



-58-
ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
TAMIL NADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Outline Checklist for Design of Engineering Inputs in Land and SIP Schemes I/
A. General Layout
1. Does the general layout make best use of the topography to minimize
earthworks, assist drainage, maximize water pressure and aid sewage
disposal.
2. Does the road layout enable water reticulation to be planned on the
basis of ring mains and the surface water drainage to avoid
excessive depth of excavation.
B. Roads
1. Is main road access to the site satisfactory.
2. Are road widths planned in the light of expected traffic.
3. Have pavement designs been carried out to the agreed standards.
4. Has future maintenance responsibility been agreed with the
appropriate authority.
C.  Water Supply
1. Has demand been assessed in accordance with agreed criteria.
2. If supply from off site is proposed will the supply be adequate.
3. If supply from on site is proposed, has a geological survey been
carried out to investigate availability and will the on site source
be safeguarded against contamination.
4. Is sufficient on site storage provided in the light of realistic
assumptions about the periodicity and quantity of supply.
5. Is distribution planned on a basis of ring mains without too many
blank ends..
1/ These points are inter alia to be specifically discussed in Design
Briefs for each site, submitted for IDA review prior to request for bids.



-59-                           ANNEX 6
Page 2
6. Has future maintenance responsibility been established.
D. Surface Drainage
1. Has run off been calculated and have drains, been sized in accordance
with agreed criteria.
2. Has offsite disposal been adequately investigated and safeguarded.
In particular, what are the down stream implications from the
discharge point.
3. Where low cost sanitation is to be used, what are the arrangements
for the disposal of household sullage.
4. Are arrangements for future maintenance and regular cleaning
satisfactory.
E. Sanitation and Sewage Disposal
1. Have the possibilities of low cost sanitation been properly
investigated including sitv soil surveys and permeability test.
2. If on site disposal is proposed are the arrangements satisfactory.
3. If sewers and off site disposal is proposed, have alternative
systems been thoroughly investigated (i.e., connection to main
municipal systems, oxidation ponds, etc.).
4. Are water supplies safe from contamination.
5. Are future maintenance arrangements satisfactory.
F.  Solid Waste Disposal
1. Are arrangements proposed satisfactory and have they been agreed with
the local authority.
G.  Electricity Supply and Street Lighting
1.  Are these provided in accordance with agreed standards for the
project.
H.  Estimates
1. Have they been prepared in accordance with the current PWD
schedule of rates.
2. Are there any circumstances which make PWD schedule rates
inappropriate and which would justify calculating special rates for
the project.



-60-                          ANNEX 6
Page 3
3. Do the quantities appear reasonable.
4. Have the correct provisions been made for supervision and
contingencies.
I. Construction Phase
1. Does the construction program seem reasonable.
2. Is the proposed rontract packaging satisfactory and are the
packages large enough to attract the more substantial and efficient
contractors.
3. Has the executing agency adequate experienced staff to plan and
supervise construction.
4. Will agreed bidding and award procedures be followed.
5. Have suitable arrangements been made for maintenance during the plot
development phase and afterwards.
6. Have other agencies' activities been coordinated and integrated
into the construction and marketing program.
NOTE: The appraisal process should not necessarily be confined to these
issues which are intended as a guideline.



-6i-
ANNEX 7
Page I
INDIA
TAMIL NADU URBAN DEVEWPMENT PROJECT
Sequence of Engineering and Planning Activities
to Prepare a LAND Design Brief to Contract A srd Stage
1. Establish land acquisition activities and schedules.
2. Carry out site topographic survey, decide if fill required and secure
source.
3. Carry out site soil survey including soil permeability tests.
4. Investigate off site facilities for:
a. access roads
b. water supply
c. surface drainage disposal
d. foul sewage disposal
e. power supply
and assess additional needs if any.
5. Prepare planning design brief based on affordability and cost recovery
criteria.
6. Liaise with planners and other authorities (statutory undertakings,
municipal authorities, etc.) to agree in principle:
a. site layout to gain maximum engineering advantage from the topography
b. sources of water and power supply
c. disposal systems for surface and foul drains
d. maintenance responsibility.
7. Prepare outline engineering designs, construction program and preliminary
estimate.
8. Finalize design brief including layout, affordability and cost recovery.
9. Seek administrative sanction and PHG/IDA clearance.
10. Prepare detailed designs.
11. Seek agreement from appropriate authorities for detailed designs of:



ANNEX 7
Page 2
a. road pavements
b. water supply
c. off site surface water discharge
d. off site sewage disposal
e. street lighting.
12. Prepare detailed cost estimate and construction program.
13. Seek technical sanction.
14. Prepare contract documents and obtain IDA clearance as necessary
and call bids.
15. Review bids and recommend award and obtain IDA clearance as necessary.
16. Let contract.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDIA
TAHIL NADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Scheme Standards and Specifications
1. Space Norms
a. Minimum Plot SizeS
30 sq.m. (where conventional sewerage is used)
40 sq.m. (where two pit low cost sanitation is used)
b. Schools:
Primary     High
Pre School    School      School
Pupil as X of site population         2             5          5
Plot area per pupil (sq.m.)           8             8         12
c. Parks and Open Spaces:
10. of total area of which above 5X of the total area as
playgrounds for schools and about 32 of the total area as
semi-private courtyards.
2. Roads:
Right of     Carriage   Pavement Specification (mm)
Way          Way
Type                Width (M)      Width (M)  Gravel  Metalling  Surface
Main Vehicular              20           7.0    ) Thickness of layers to be
Secondary Vehicular         15           7.0    ) determined by CBR values &
Tertiary Vehicular          12           7.0    ) traffic density at each site
Minor Vehicular             10           6.0    ) when fully developed.
Pedestrian Way with
emergency vehicle
access                 6 or 5          3.7        150        75       20
Pedestrian Way           4 or 3          3.0        150        75       20
Foot Path                   1.5          1.5       Brick on edge or similar
3. Severage:
(a) Sewage flows taken as 100% of water consumption.
(b) Salt glazed clay pipes generally adopted with cast iron for diameters
in excess of 300 mm and in pressure mains.
(c) Individual sewer connection to inspection chambers for all plots.



-64-
ANNEX 8
Page 2
(d) Low cost sanitation systems of pour flush twin pit or ventilated
improved pit (VIP) type to be considered where soil conditions and
distance from water sources permit in accordance with agreed algorithm.
Potential for shallow and small bore sewers to be reconsidered from
time to time.
4. Water supply:
(a) Supply initially from,wells on site if possible.
(b) Water demand per capita calculated at 45 Lpcd for EWS and 125 Lpcd for
others at 5.5 persons per plot.
(c) Individual connections metered for non EWS.
(d) Cast iron pipes for diameters in excess of 300 mm asbestos cement
pipes up to 300 mm.
(e) Service connections in galvanized steel or PVC.
5. Surface Water Drainage:
(a) Design based on 5-year storm.
(b) Roads with right of way of 6 N or more to be provided with open
masonry drains.
(c) Roads with right of way less than 6 N to have verges dished to carry
water, but kerbs will not be provided.
(d) Drains not to be covered except at pedestrian crossing and road
junctions.
(e) Where low cost sanitation system are used, all roads to be provided
with drains to carry sullage.
6. Electricity and Street Lighting:
(a) 11 KV feeders by underground cable to substation.
(b) LT distribution for electricity to LIG and MIG plots and street
lighting by underground cable.
(c) No electricity provision for EWS plots initially. Supply will be
extended when demand justifies by overhead cable cantilevered over
roadway.
(d) Street lights to all plots with poles at 30 M interval and one in
each courtyard.



vJJ
ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDIA
TAMIL NADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Guided Development (Draft Description and Guidelines)
(A joint venture of IMDA with Land owners/group of landowners/
holders of power of attorney within the limits of MMA)
A. Introduction
1.01    The land policy of the Madras Metropolitan Development Authority
(MMDA) for various projects it undertakes is to acquire lands compulsorily
under the Land Acquisition Act. Opposition by land owners to compulsory land
acquisition considerably delays the acquisition proceedings. The Tamil Nadu
Urban Land Ceiling and Regulation Act (1976) has not been particularly
successful. Guided Development (CUD) has been formulated to overcome land
acquisition difficulties. CUD schemes are formulated with a view to
ensuring:
(a) a fair return on investment to the private owner/developer and at the
same time;
(b) the availability of a relatively large proportion of serviced sites
for allotment to low income families at affordable prices.
1.02    Under this scheme the NMDA will formulate the CUD guidelines and lay
down standards (and prepare layouts for a fee, if desired by
landowners/developers) on the Sites and Services Pattern implemented by the
Tamil Nadu Housing Board. Selected private developers would be responsible
for land assembly and servicing, using low cost sites and services
engineering, and site planning standards. Middle and higher income plots and
plots for non-residential, commercial and service industry uses could be
included in the schemes and depending on the size of the site plots for
community facilities would also have to be provided in the layout. MMDA
would provi'.-- essential off-site infrastructure like access roads, water
supply and access to electricity.   Part of the expenditure towards on site
infrastructure could be financed by MMDA. MMDA would purchase from
developers lower income plots, while the Developers can dispose of the rest
at prices fixed by them.
Develonment Guidelines
1.03    The Development Guidelines prepared by MMDA shall be applicable.
1.04    Land owners willing to execute a guided development scheme shall have
the option of authorizing a developer through a power of attorney to imple-
ment the scheme.



ANhhZ 9
Page 2
1.05    The developer shall furnish all the following details with the
development proposal:
(a) A pover of attorney to implement the CUD scheme;
(b) Details of land ownership;
(c) Proposed layout;
(d) Proposed engineering standards and specifications;
(e) Implementation schedule;
(f) Financial analysis of the proposal; and
(g) Financial position of the developer along with
information on similar projects executed and
equipments, manpower details.
The Guidelines
1.06    The Guidelines contain:
(a) Space Norms. The objective of stipulating space norms would be to
promote efficient land use which maximise the proportion of
marketable areas subject to functional, social and environmental
considerations.
(b) Engineering Standards and Specifications. These shall also be func-
tional standards similar to those adopted in sites and services
schemes, which would minimize the cost of development, while preserv-
ing adequate service performance standards.
Both the above norms together should facilitate maximising the locational
values within the scheme which in turn allows differential pricing of land.
This is necessary to achieve affordable prices for the low income plots and
at the same time produce adequate rate of return on landowners'/developers'
investments.
(c) The performance target is specified in the form of a minimum number
of low income plots per gross ha.
Also, the proportion and size of plots for income groups having
household incomes below the currently assessed poverty level are
specifically stipulated. These income groups would be revised
annually and announced accordingly.
(d) The price at which MMDA will purchase the low income plots and core
houses is also specified for 1987-88 and would be revised annually.
Evaluation Criteria
1.07    The CUD application submitted by the Developer would be evaluated
with reference to development guidelines. There is a possibility that a
persistent demand by the developers for reducing the proportion of low income
plots on grounds of higher costs and lower market prices leading to unaccep-
tably low return on investment. NMDA would reserve the right to reject or
modify any CUD scheme proposal on account of assumptions about development
costs and land prices. MMDA would evaluate CUD proposals with respect to the
following parameters:



-67-
ANNEX 9
Page 3
(a)  Land use efficiency and distribution by type and location, including
proportion of plots for low income groups;
(b)  Plot prices;
(c)  Implementation Schedule; and
(d)  Overall financial feasibility of proposed development.
Finance for the Project
1.08    On site infrastructure cost would be incurred by the developer/owner
whereas the off site infrastructure cost, if any, would be borne by MMDA.
However, the lands identified within Madras Metropolitan Area may need on
site solutions to water supply and sanitation till large scale projects for
them are formulated and implemented. Non-conventional methods of water
supply and sanitation may have to be employed. The cost of such infrastruc-
ture could be borne by the developer owner, provided an adequate return on
investment is assured through provisions for land use in the scheme.
1.09    Tamil Nadu Urban Development Project (TNULY ) funds could be used by
MKDA for: (a) providing off-site infrastructure; and (b) purchase of low
income plots from the developers at prices stipulated in the guidelines.
Marketing and Estate Management
1.10    The marketing responsibility of MMDA will be confined to low income
plots, which would be marketed according to the standard practice followed by
the MMDA. According to current Madras Urban Development Project practice,
the price of low income plots would be recovered through monthly installments
over 20 year period.
Implementation procedure
1.11    Steps involved in the implementation of the Guided Development are as
follows:
(a)  GTN/MKDA announces that it is seeking applications to implement CUD
schemes (which may be restricted to a particular area or areas in the
KMA);
(b)  A land owner, or a developer on behalf of a group of land owners,
prepares and submits CUD proposals as per Guidelines prescribed by
GTN;
(c)  MMDA  evaluates the CUD proposal;
(d)  MMDA negotiates with developer any changes in the proposal that are
necessary, including the manner in which price of EWS plots and
advances are to be paid to the developer by the MMDA;
(e) MMDA enters into a formal agreement with the developer;
(f)  MMDA recommends exemption under Sec. 21 of ULC Act to GTN;



-68-                         ANNEX 9
Page 4
(g)  GTN exempts land under Sec. 21 of ULC Act;
(h) MKDA pays an advance on purchase of EWS plots;
(i) Developer commences development work (on-site infrastructure and on
plot development);
(j) TNEB/other service agencies commences off-site work, if any;
(k) Developer hands over EWS plots and plots for community facilities and
roads and other infrastructure to WIDA/GTN;
(1) Developer sells and transfers title of higher income and other com-
mercial and service industry plots (only after stop (k)); and
(m) MMDA allots EWS plots to the selected beneficiaries, takes standard
downpayments and makes long-term loans to beneficiaries.



-69-
ANNEX 10
INDIA
TAMIL NADU URBAN DmVLOPMJENT PROJECT
Slum Improvement Program - Planning and Service Standards
1. Local Circulation
All dwellings to be within 100 M of a road with 6 1 right of way.
2. Access
All dwellings to have paved access by foot path.
3. Water
By hand pump, on site bore wells or through off site linkage at 45 Lcd
with one stand pipe per 20 households.
4. Sanitation
One water closet and one bathing place with a well per 10 families as
public conveniences, or individual two pit pour flush latrines where
density and soil conditions permit.
5. Drainage
A storm water and sullage drain disposal point to all dwellings.
6. Street Lighting
One light per 40 M length of road or foot path.
7. Solid Waste
Collection bins, minimum of one per group of 15 families.
8. Social Facilities
One pre-school per 200 households.



-70-
ANNEX 1 .'
INDIA
TAMIL NADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Short List of TRAMP Schemes
R3 lakhs
1.    Madras (DHRW Implementation)
1.1.  Inner Ring Road:  Erukkancheri Rd to Minjur (8 km.)               638
1.2.  Inner Ring Road between Minjur Road and Ennore Expressway:
widening of 5.6 km. or route from two to four lanes             140
1.3.  Land acquisition to be clarified                                  330
Madras Corporation Implementation
1.4.  Development of Kilpauk Section of Inner Orbital Route             224
1.5.  Improvement to Cuoom Bridges                                      275
1.6.  Nungambakkam High Road Traffic Management Scheme.  No
land acquisition problems                                        54
Sub-Total   1661
2.      Coimbatore (DHRW Implementation)
2.1.  Improvement of Cross Cut Road. Largely involves burying
cables.  No land acquisition involved.                           82
2.2.  Sathy Road Intersection Improvement.  Options to be
examined.  No land acquisition involved.                        112
2.3.  Cross Cut Rd. West: Grade-separate Interchange and
overbridge.  Further examination of options required           800
2.4.  CBD Western Bypass: Pollachi Rd. to Thadagam Rd.  Some
and acquired; a small additional area to be acquired.            80
2.5.  Big Bazaar St. underbridge, widening.  Most land required
is railway land. Some land required belongs to
Headquarters Hospital. Some other is "shopping area".
Some other is "shopping area".                                  105
Sub-Total   1179
3.    Madurai (DHRW Implementation)
3.1.  Junction implementation at South Veli/Aruppukottai Rd.
No land acquisition involved.                                     5
3.2.  High Level Bridge: Anna Nagar to Kamaraj Rd.  Land
acquisition to be settled.                                     370
3.3.  Dindugal Bridge & Road improvement.  Involves land
acquisition from Railways.                                     470
3.4.  Causeway across Vaigai to serve Burial Ground.  River land
required from PWD; a little land acquisition involved.           50
3.5.  Western Bypass: cycle tracks & service roads.  No land
acquisition involved.                                           100
Sub-Total    995
4.    Salem (DHRW Implementation)
4.1.  Southern Bypass: Trichy Road to Attur Road.  No land
acquisition involved.                                            81
4.2.  Omallur Road bridge over railway.  Municipal land required.    200
5.    Trichy (DHRW Implementation)
5.1.  Salur Road to Karur Road.  Land acquisition involved.             305
5.2.  Pudukottai Road and 3 bridges improvement.  Railway land
is required.                                                   610
Sub-Total   1196
Grand Total   5031



-71-
ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDIA
TAMIL NADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Guidelines on Content of TRAMP and MUDF Traffic Management
and Transport Scheme Selection and Evaluation
1.     Objectives.  State the objectives of the scheme, which for all tran-
sport and traffic management schemes, whether financed under the project
through the TRAMP or MUDF, would be:
(a) to minimize capital investment in roads by promoting low- and least-
cost solutions to traffic and transport problems and through traffic
management;
(b) to improve transport efficiency and the standard of service of public
transport, particularly for the urban poor;
gc) to increase the capacity of the urban road network in close correla-
tion with priority road user needs;
(d) to improve the enforcement of traffic regulations;
(e)  to improve travel and safety conditions particularly for pedestrians
and slow moving vehicles; and
(f) to exploit the potential of road schemes to achieve city land use
environmental and urban development objectives.
2.      Site Appraisal and Problem Identification - the Need.  For the area
or corridor containing the proposed transport or traffic management scheme,
review current traffic conditions and problems for all types of road and
footpath users, including particularly pedestrians, slow moving vehicles and
public transport; note land uses and potential opportunities or constraints
on road widening, etc.
3.      Scheme Options.  Starting from the form and scale of projects iden-
tified earlier by consultants (if available), check scheme options both
singly and in combination. Where appropriate consider alternative scales of
development and whether service to selected modes (e.g. pedestrians and
cyclists alone) would be appropriate.
3.      Cost Appraisal.  Check or assess approximate costs of scheme options,
noting any particular uncertainties with respect to construction
difficulties, ground conditions, etc. A thorough statement on land acquisi-
tion requirements, problems and schedules must be included.



-72-                         ANNEX 12
Page 2
5.      Traffic and Economic Appraisal.  From Home Interview survey results
and, if required, supplementary roadside 0- D Surveys, establish traffic
patterns and assess the likely effect on traffic patterns of the scheme
options identified. Hence, identify the potential traffic benefits in terms
of journey time and accident savings of different scheme options. Hence, by
comparing costs and benefits, assess the economic worth of options.
6.      Social Appraisal.  Check or assess approximate costs of scheme
options, noting any particular uncertainties, problems and provisions to be
made with respect to construction difficulties, ground conditions, encroach-
ment and the need to relocate people and existing facilities, etc.
7.      Social Appraisal.  Consider which sections of the community are most
likely to gain or lose by the proposal and how the choice of option affects
the result. In particular identify the potential benefits to the low income
households.
8.      Town Planning and Environmental Appraisal.  Assess the advantages and
disadvantages of scheme options in Town planning and environmental terms
including, for example, the potential reduction or increase in traffic (and
noise in residential areas, the destruction or creation of open space or
other land used for recreational or any other purposes, any ecological
effects and the compatibility of options with Town plans. In particular, for
schemes which increase the accessibility of hitherto inaccessible areas (like
Ring Roads), specify what arrangements have been made with planning
authorities to ensure that the scheme's potential benefits and disbenefits
for land utilizAtion would be related to physical, financial, social and
economic development objectives.



P.*iSe AM AMoM  a. u MuAm                                                                                        &WAN Wof"                                                        Tom    Pf
ame CiNqI.. CAM. Off   TOWm  1118743 "114.89 100-o 1000-91 10"1-" 10024 *M.  It.041104  1090.96 f4174S fa48.0 II&"4 100-01 100142 10M-" $0-94 10114-0 100 046
~~bd  100.00  10t.00  Iff."0  123.00  130.00  130.00  1410   14100  164100
LaO                           0.00    0.00  0.12  .10:I    0.10   0.00   0.30   0.00                                       0.06    3.001   240   0OM    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0063   DA4
CMI WoOs                    620.34               12.34                                                                     0.00  11.0$  21.44  36.77  34.03  44.00   MS.1   10.00   0.00 2100.02  73.
so   I                     10.20    1.1   R.00  24.00          0.10   0.*0   0.20   0.2    0."0                          0.00   2.61   60*0    6.0"    024   0.36   0.00   0.00   0.00  20.0   0.0
an aft Mraftcw*f           4170    0.07  10.12  023.3          0.A0   0.20   4.20   0.2    0*0   0.00                    0.00  11.34  10.11  20.27  21A2   22.74   4.01   0.00   0.00 101.01  I.
OR04 $a O  020w            10.41    1."1  1.37  19A2           0.10   0.10   0.16   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10            0.00   2.00   3*0    3.411   3.77   4.00   4.23   2.00   0.00   "Al0  0*
CON bomm                    17.34    1.73  2.07  21.74          0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0."0   0.15   0.10            0.00   2.17   3.74   4.01   4.24   0.00   4.7$   3 37   0.00  ISAI  a
$0.11 pa0..                 0.70    0.07  1.34  10.01                 0.00   0.11   0.      0.2    0.20   0.20           0.00   0.00   0.00   2.01   2.41   3.01   3.10   4.23   0.0   IS U    4)
0.00                                                     0.00                                0.00   0.0        0.00   0.00 0 .00   0.00   0.00 000     00    041   0
0.00                000.00   000    0.00   000    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00 
Low                          210.01    0.00  0.13810.14                 0.10   0.10   0.10   O.20   0.2    0.20            0.00   0."0   3.03   402    0.10   7.21   7.03   $.10    000  3600   0
,aa  a 2qooivA               0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00                                                                    0.00   0.00   000    0.00   0.00   0800   000   0040   0"    0.400
Chow                 ~~0.00    0.00  000   O.00                                                                    0.00   0.00   0.00   000    0040   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   0.00 
0.00    0.00  000   0.00                                                                     0.00   000    000    0.00   000    000    0.00   0-00   0.00   0.0" 0
cowi 19=                     0.00    0.00  000   0.00                                                                     0.00   000    0.00   0.00   0.00   000    0.00   000    0006  0."0
TnbtM UkW   A  a~f    I0                  SA      04     0.16    .16   0.1     .       .1    0.1                    .16                  0.      0.3   0.    60    000    0.    a.0?
0.00   0.00   0.00   000    000o   0.00   0.00   000a   8000
Iomu      0yeno               .00    0.00  0.00   0.00                                                                     0.00   0.00   000    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   04 
CMw Wog22222                                                                                                               0.00   oil   *A       002    041    072   0042   0060   0.00   30 I
0416qFlm0.00    000   0.00   0.00                                                                                        0.00   0.00   0.00   000    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0040   0.00   0.
on of Urns 004e4            0.00    000   0.00   0.00                                                                    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   400    0.00   0
M o  obswa.o                1.67    0.17  020   2.10           0.t0   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.20   0.10   0.10            0.00   0.2    0.37   0.30   0.      0.00   0.4     Oil3  0040   2.7$   0
C" "Res                      0.00    000 00   0.00                                    0.00   0.0 0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00                                            000 0.00 0.00        0."
SONmFsWN.                   0.41    0.00  0.00   0.71          0.10   0.11   0.1o   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.11            0.00   0.07   0.12   0.13   0.14   0.10   0.10   0.17   0040   0.41   0
0.00                0.00                                                                     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   000    0.00   0.00   0.00   0
0.00                0.00                                                                     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000    0.00   000   0O."
LAWS                          7.I21   0.00  0.41   7201          0.10   0.1S   0.10   0.10   0.1    0.10   0.10            0.00   0.73   I11.20   1*0    1.42   1.4.    I.0    41*   000   S."
rn51    a & G*ONN             0.4 000   0.00   0 04 0                                  0.00 0.00 0.00   0.00 0. .00   000    0.00   0.00   0.00   S.41   0
CR3s                         0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00                                                                    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000    000   0.00   0.00   000   0.00   0.
boom                         0.00    00O   00..0                                  0.00   0.00                                    0.00   0.00           0.00 0.00 GA  AD 000   0040   000   0.210   0
OMo a In                     0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00                                                                    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0
0                          0~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~.203  0.10   0.10  .16    .1 6.   0   0 I              .              .04    .11   0.    0.      0.       00           0-
0.0  0231a  I*01030                                                                      0.02   1.41   11.7$ 10        .1    28     20     *0      00 1*          ,L
or                                                                                          9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.AS   000
LAWS                          G.AS    0.00  0.13   S.0"          0.1   0.20   0."   0.20   0.10                            0.00   0.00   I.I1    1.     2.14   0.06   0.00   0.00   0.007"          .
CPA Waf                      277                  2.77                                                                     0.00   3.7    0.6    7.32   7.74   0.30   4.02   0.00   0.00  37.44  I30
so F6mwooo                  0.37    0.41  0.0   0.47           0.10   0.20   0*0   0.20   0.10   0.06                    0.00   0.07   C.IS   0.1    0.12   0.13   0.00   0.00   0.00   0."   OIl
Oa24 G"     S41s            7.2    1.7$  2.4  21*47            0.1    0.20   0.20   0.20   0.20  0a0                     0.00   2.2    6.03   643   0.03   0."1   100   0.00   0040  2000   0.1
CONso V&IN0 .33    0."0  0.A2   S."                            0.00   0.1    0.20   0.2    0.2    0.20                   0.00    Oil   1.1    I.41   1.7$   1.84   1."1   0.00   0.00   0.41   I
Cwo                          0.41 *  0.00  0.00   0.00                                                                    0.00   0.0    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.
01111 rado                  C.0l    0.10  0.10   1.27          0.10   0.10   0.16   0.10  0G0   0*0                      0.00   0.13   0.22  0G"    0.120   0.3    0.41   0.00   0.00   1.44    .
0.00                0.00                                                                     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0A  .00   0.41  000   0.00   000."
0.00                0.00                                                                     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   O.0    000o   0.00   0.00   000oo
tam ~ ~     ~    ~    04 0.00   0.00 0.00                                      0.00                                    0.00 0. ."0 00 0.00              0.00A   G.00   000   0.00   000   0
MI"4 2WPI                 0.00    0.0004 0.00                                      0.00                                    0.00   0.00   0.00   0 .00 00 O.00   0."0   000    0A0   000"
chow                 am0.0    0.00  0.00   0.00                                                                    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0am    0.00   0040   000   0
INdin               ~~0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00                                                                    0.41   0.00   0.00   0.00   0A0   0.00   0.41   0.  00 04       O.41"
GOWSWOWAN            0.00    0.00  0.41   0.00                                                                     0.41   0.00   0.00   0."    0.00  0am    0.00   0.00   0.00   041"
Tadft  Ad  4 S             .O                   .       0.  0.1    6.1    dA    DAS.                                                          .      .1     .1     0.1*0A3
"I"  I.46 3.62 3072                                               *2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.                                      4.3
LBO                   8~~~~.37    0.00  0.00   0.47   0.20   C."0   0.20   0.10   0.20                              6.07   1.*7   1.04   2.00   3.18   0.00   0.40   0.0    0.41 02".
Ckg WO"               64~0.00    C.6   O.00  4147                                                                   0.00   7.00  12.17  1131   10.10  10.31  10.3    00I410.2              t0
ra  Waft                    "41.0    0.00  0.00  00.07          0.10   0.1$   0.20   0*0    0.20   0.10                   0.00   7.00  12.I7  17.21  10.10   ai I0.1 0.3    000    0.00  41120  10C
owsiWA omw                   0.00    0.00  0.00   0.0                                   0                                     0.00 0 .00   0.00 0.00       0.00 0.    ." 0 .00 000 00    000   0
cow ~ ~    ~    ~     00 0.00 0. .00   0.0000 0.00   0.00 0. ."0   0."0 04 0.00 O.                                                                                    00.   0040   000   0.
0.00.D                                                   0.00                                04    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   0.00   00.,1    0
0.00                0.00                                                                     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000   0.00   0.
LOW.                  G~~~.00" 0    0.00   000                                                                     0.00   0.00  0a0    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00 00"00 01 0
5h  4b  mof                   0.00                 0.00                                                                    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   00       00'.4"
Cow"                         0.00   @0 0.00      0.00                                                                     0.0 0.00   0.00   0.00      0.00 0.00 0. .00   000 00           000 0
mod                  O."~00  0."   0.00   0.00                                                                    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000    000   000   0OA
wxkw.                GP"00   0.00000    0.00                                                                      0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0000   00  000 O"       0    000.                    29 
Tom aum.m.                  000    0."   000 00                                      0.00                                    0.00       0.00 0.00   0.00     000C.  000 00         000"00  0.                    (bt
oe GoOm6000    4000   000   00000                                                                                    0 G.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   00    000 0 
~~ora                 0042~~~~~~G.  0.56  500  _7002                                                                1.0 0.2 143 1.6    00               07   10"    0 00  0O."      00   0



Lmd                      SI~~~.6  0.00  0.00   0.03   0.30    0.40    0.30                                              0.-    0*      0*0    0.00"    00    0.0.0   .0    :.00    :A      007 0
Ci                             :-s3                 6.3                                                                         0.0    0.7    1.0A 1J.0   IAt    0*          04e    0.ee  e40    706   *
N" Wu"                        0.00    0.00  o.00   0.00                                                                        000    0-      0.00    0.00e      0 .00      *.00   0.00   :0    *.00   0
IaIs  d 04o0                  6.30    0.04  0.03   6.76            0.40   0.36    0*0    0.6                                   0.00    0.70    I.Oll   I.0l0   IA    0.00   0.100   0.00   0.00    Y."    0
0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00                                                                        0.00    0."0   0.00    0.100   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    S.AO   0.06   0.
O.00                 0.00                                                                        0.0    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0*0    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.
0.00                 0.00                                                                        0.00       0.00 0.00      0.00   0.00 0       .00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.
Laewi                          O."     0.00  0.00   0.00                                                                        0.00   0.00    0.00    0.0    0.00   0.mI too       0.00   0.e   0.o 
6aef a wgw                38.04                 31.04                                                                       0.00   3.07    4*44   W4.0   ISA    It.0    0.10    0.00   0.00  40'3  10
CNN&                 2~~~1.761   0.IS   00  00.33          0.10   0.10    0.30   0*0    0.00                           0.00   0.06   3.06    0.70   Stay   TM    0.00    0.00   0.00  300    0.
ftso                 ~~~10.711   1.07   1.10  11.07        0.10   0.10    0.30   0.30    020                           0.00    1*0    S.00    070    S.00    3.100    O*0    0.00    0.00   1018 
Wmho                         0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00                                                                         0.00    0.00    0.0    0.00    .00   0.00    0.00    0.00   0*0    0."   0.
18f Mqmspm                   0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00                                                                        00      0.00    .00    00     0.00    .00    O."    0.00   0.00   0.0    0.
awsw,p_   w                  O.        .    0.04   0.4            0.10   0.10    03    0.0    0.16   0.16                      0.00    0.oe   0.0    0.1 *.  0.0o   0.0    0.00 oe              e  .s     o.1
mdc*g AdMft S  UM              0.40                 0.40    0.10   0. of6 01.16          0.1 1 .16  .1  60.11                   0.O0.0"00                      .0 00         .1      0       0      0     OIl1
"All.4                                to   4.4*.oe I                                                                                    .0 7.0       t0 1   10.4   11.03   e.t    000    0ee  00   II
tWaOcm*.I.ollR011                                    0.00                                                                       0.00   0.00    0.0    0.0    0.00   000    0.00    000D   000
a_U                         0t.700    t te  tZ   20a              O.tO   e.to    OJ 0.0t                                      0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    00     0       O.0    e.00    o.00,  0.0   0
G" Waft                        W       t0.0   0.4 10*                                                                           0.00   10.0  300.14    0.11  86.17   5.00   160ft O  0.00   0.00  130.6 * .1
n pqwgoo                   0.00                  0.00                                                                       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   00 
an z  10611100130           90.08    0.10  0.64 1041.30           0.10    0.00    0*    0*20   0.0    0.10                    0.00   80.04  26.14  86.0     MA 10 17  8.00   86.00   0.00   0.00  I3.00.
ofu      Ou .00                                   0.00                                                                        0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0*0    00  .00        0.00co    0
cm3 "NAll                     0.00                 0.00                                                                        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    000    000    000   0
o0EM F0MN                    0.00                  0.00                                                                       0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  to 0.00 0       .00    0 .00 00 a
000.0000.00                                                       0.00                                                0.00    0.0 0.00       0.00        .00 000   00     0
0.00            0~~~~.00                                                                   0.00   0.0    0*A0    0.00   0.00"  :0.00    0.00    0"    0.0 0.0 0
0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00O. 0.00 0.0                                                                            .00    0.00   0.00     " 0.00   0.00 000   0.0    0.00   0.
0 OV"                  17."     f.70  0.10  10.10                                                                        0.00     .08   4,44    4.70   4.07   00    J0.70    000    0.00  0400   40
0.00                 0.00                                                                        0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   0*0    0.00   0.
0.0                   .0 0.00                                                                    0.00           0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    000    0.00   0.
0oE04in0             ~~~~~~~~17.86    1.73  0.80  801.881C  0.8 0    0.3 0    0*0 0*0    0.80    0.10                  0.00    o.0    4,44    4.70    4.07   6G8    1.70   0.00    .00  00.00   4.
9.67  6.10   6.96          a-116   6.16   6.19                          G~~~   ~~~~~~~~~~.eo   e.eo   e.eo    127e  IAo-eJ  ego6   e.eo   ese  .9
FEt~~~~~~~~~~~10                        -dL   ¢otoee oe1.e1.o                                                                                          eg      g       .oo   o.ee   a.l      .t
Ctgtt                     Zt        .tO    +  tef21.tO   t.61. is.t cell                                                                                        ".0   117fts  e0.oe   aJ    t



ANNEX 14
-75-                                      Page 1
TABLE 4.2 LANO - Sites and Services
Prototype.AMOATTUR  - Tank land requiring deop fill,on s1tevoater supply
through deep wells, conventional sewerage
jTABLE 4.2.1-LAND ANO DEVELOPMENT COST
Gross Area (ha): 84.21                                   To be
lose  Physic. Design  Interst  Recov-
Cost  Conting. sup.Mg. Constr.  ered
/m2      X       P       Y      Ro/m22
Land     cost/gross m2         2.47   0.00    2.00      9.00   2.7S
Site prepar.    - m2          36.28  10.00   14.00      9.00 49.56
On-s:teinfr        m2         83.91   10.00   14.00     9.00 114.70
Water           33.01
Sewerage           21.10
Oroinage          10.23
Roads            6.06
Street Lights          6.70
Landscape            3.56
Maintenance           1.25
Ott-sileo nfr     m2          15.33  10.00   14.00      9.00  20.95
Water            0.00
Severage            5.19
Orainage & Culverts          4.29
Roads            5.85
Community Foe. -   m2          9.63  10.uO   i4.00      9.00  13.16
Schools           7.41
Comm. Centre            0.26
Med. Center           0.18
Police Stn          0.45
FIre Stn.          0.30
Shape            0.93                         Cost/
CONSTRUCT.         Area m2                                   Unit
Superst. unit *1       1.00 3250.00   10.00   14.00     9.00   4442
-  92         1.00 4750.00  10.00   14.00      9.00   6493
9 03          1.00    0.00  10.00   14.00      9.00  0.00
'Developed Land Cost/Gross m2 to recover to break even tO 1 . 12
[TABLE 4.2.2-LAND USE & PRICING OF NON-RESIDENTIAL LAND
IPERCEN1 Non-Residentfal
Total area (ha)       84.21  100.00 Devel.Land price
Non-Marketable
Circulation  m2      201430  23.92  per net m2
Open space  m2        S2294   6.21  --       -              Revenue
Oxidation Pond m2     58526   6.95                        (Rs Lokhs)
Sub-Total  312251   37.06
Marketable
Primary schools m2        0   0.00   0.00                      0.00
Second. schoolsm2         0   0.00   0.00       Sale of Shops 33.25
Other facilities m2   79663   9.46 400.00                    318.65
Commercial SI m2      50526    6.00 1000.00                  505.26
Commerc,al *2 m2          0   0.00 800.00                      0.00
Commercial *3 m2          0   0.00   0.00                      0.00
Small Industry m2      9600    1.14 600.00                    76.80
Total Residential m2  390061   46.32                        933.96
Sub-Total  529649   62.92
*TOTAL NUMB. PLOTS    6300       Hhld Size :S.00
OPOPULAT.OENS./HA    374.09  74.62 NH/ha
Total    On-site
*Oeveloaed Land Cost/Net m2 to recover to break even  434.20 360.56



ANNX 14
-76-                                      Page 2
TABLE 4.2.3: SUMMARY OF PROJCT COST AND REVENUES
Project Costs         Base   To1e1  Rs.;rm2    Project Revenues   Rs lakhs  Rs/m2
__            (Rs lokhs2 )  __              __ __          _ _
Land                 20.81   21.23    2.S2     Lond:nonresidentio   933.96  1tO.91
Site prepar.        305.36 382.92   4S.47      Land:restdenttal    780.05   92.63
On-site infrostructure  706.64 886.13  105.73  Community Fae        33.25    3.9S
Water 276.00
Severoge 177.70
Orainage  86.13
Roads  67.89
Street Lights  16.42
Londscape  30.00
Maintenance  10.50
Off-sate infroaructure  129.08 161.87   19.22  Core Houses         199.15   23.65
Water   0.00
Sewerage  43.73
Drainage & Culverts  36.09
Roads  49.26
Community Facilities    81.07  101.66   12.07  H E Loans           220.23   27.10
Schools  62.43
Comm. Centre   2.35
Med. Center   1.53
Police Stn   3.77
Fire Stn.   3.20
Shops   7.79
Core House Constructio  145.70 182.70   21.70
Superst. unit  t     40.95
0 02        104.74
- 03         0.00
Home Irmorovement Lao 217.36 228.23   27.10
TOTAL COST            16080    19BS  233.31    TOTAL REVENUE   2174.64 25s.24
excl com oc        1524.95 1863.07  221.24     sales S downpaymt:  1276.98  IS1.641
gcl mcorfao &oft site 1395.87 1701.2t  202.02  sales as %oftcost    65.00       J
Total Cost Incl. Interest                      SurptusBefticit
I.totol           1730.02 2121.02                                 53.62   2.53X
2. exci com foc   1641.65 2010.21                                 164.43   8.107
3.excl com foe &off a 1500.95 1833.77                            340.86 I6.591
4eh^c6wtgp0 /ttv /s bu" ci J. qeOw
TABLE 4.2.4 -PRICING 6 AFFORDABILITY OF RESIDENTIAL PLOTS          Apt.Plots
Resident. plot types   EWS-I  EWS-2  LIG-t  LIG-Z    MIS      HIG     HI6   Total/Mean I
Manth.income hohd    400.00  600.00 850.00 1250.00  2000.00 3500.00  3SO0.00     59.541
Plot site in m2       32.00   40.00  60.00  90.00   180.00 300.00    34.57
Plot type percent.    20.00   35.00  20.00   13.00      6.50   1.00     4.50    100.00
*NUMB. PLOTS/TYPE     1260   2205   1260    819         410      63     264       630
Oev.land Rst/net m2   30.00   40.00  100.00  175.00   450.00 650.00   750.00    780.05
Superst.cost/plot    4442.30 6492.59   0.00   0.00      0.00   0.00              199.15
Other cost per plot    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00        0.00   0.00
*TOT.CAPITAL/HSHO     S402   6093   6000  tS750    81000 19S006   25925    979.2(
Oownpayment X          0.00    0.00   0.00   25.00    40.00  60.00   100.00    312.15
lump sum    400.00  600.00 1000.00    0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00      30.87
Interest rota/year    12.00   12.00  12.00   12.00  1 12.00  12.00    12.00
Loan term (year       20.00  20.00  20.00   15.00    10.00   S.00       S.00
totsl
*MONTH.MORTG.PYM        55      62      SS    142       697   1735         0      6.32
Water0eleet. charq
Other month.charg
*TOT.MONTH.PYMT       55.06   82.50  55.05  141.77   697.27 1735.07     0.00      8.32
*bO1F MONTH. IUCOt  13.77  13.7S   6.46  11.34    34.66 49.S7    0.00            13.97
Home Expansion Loans 2000.00 3000.00  10000                                 total
MonthlyPayment        22.02   33.03 110.11        .                             217.36
%of Monthly Income     S.51   S.SI  12.95
Total 1 of Monthly I 1 9.26  19.26  19.43
eDeveloped Land Cost Recoverable per net m2          439.42
*0eveloped Land Cost/net m2 to recover to break even  360.SS
l*Surolus or Deficit in Rs Thousand and Percent        30761 21.67 X



-II-                         ANNMK 15
TAMNL NADU UR9BN DEVELOPMENT PR0JECT
Estimated Schedule of Dsburmens
(US$ millon)
Fbcal yer          Quarter           Quarterly    Cumulative     % of
India   IDA         Endin                                       Ln/Credi
1987188  1988  June 30,1988               0.00          0.00          0.0
1989  September 30.1986          0.00          0.00         0.0
December 31,1988          4.96          4.96          1.7
1988189        March 31,1989              9.20         14.16          4.7
June 30,1989              3.07         18.03          6.0
1990  September 30,1989         11.18        29.21          9.7
December 31,1989         13.80         43.01         14.3
1989/90        March 31,1990             13.80         56.81        18.9
June 30,1990              6.16         62.96         21.0
1991  Septembar 30,90           13.80        76.76         25.6
December 31,1990         16.90         93.66         31.2
1990/91        Marct' 31,1991            16.90       110.56         36.
June 30,1991              8.35        118.91         39.6
1992  Septamber 30,1991         16.90       135.81         48.2
Decnber 31,1991         17.52        163.33         61.1
1991192        Maroh 31,1992             17.52       170.85         66.9
June 30,1992              8.63        179.48         59.8
1993  September 30,1992         17.52       197.00         65.6
December 31,1992         17.66        214.66         71.5
1992193        March 31,1993             17.90       232.56         77.5
June 30,1993              8.47        241.03         80.3
1994  September 30,1993        17.90        258.93         86.3
December 31,1993          9.04        267.97         89.3
1993/94        March 31,1994              9.04       277.01         92.3
June 30,1994              4.16        281.17         93.7
1995  September 30,1994          9.04       290.21         98.7
December 31,1994          2.64        292.85         97.6
1994/95        March 31,1995              2.64       295.49         98.4
June 30,1995              1.66        297.15         99.0
1996  September 30.1995          3.05       300.20        100.0
5/6/88



- i8-
AMIMh 16
Page 1
INDIA
TAMIL NADU URBAN DBVEWPMENT PROJECT
Management Information System (MIS)
1.      TNUDP, which includes many implementing agencies and covers many
cites, would require an effective management information system for its
monitoring. Apart from the implementing agencies a two tier organization
structure comprising PMG at state level and CMCs at individual city level
would be used to monitor performance and coordinate the project. The func-
tions of the MIS would be to determine and ensure data flows between
implementing agencies, CMCs and the PMG, carry out certain analyses and
report them periodically to the SLCC and HPPC so that bottlenecks can be
removed and compliance with project objectives and covenants ensured. The
MIS records would be maintained in computerized systems operated in the P1G,
CMC and agencies.
Information Flows
2.      Information on following parameters should regularly flow from the
implementing agencies through CMCs to PMG:
- project implementation schedules, updated at least quarterly;
- physical progress - contract-wise monthly;
- financial progress, including necessary documentation for preparing
reimbursement claims - contract-wise monthly;
- procurement steps - copies of bid notices, bid documents and bid
evaluation reports, work orders, final agreements, etc.;
- design briefs of sites and services schemes and guided development
schemes;
- SIP schemes with their zonal locations, costs and cost recovery
estimates; and
- similar information on schemes in other components.
Analyses
3.      Based on the data flows following analytical reports should be
prepared by the PMG and CMC of:
- sectoral impacts of project components



ANNE=  16
Page 2
- annual revision of cost to completion of the project, revised yearly
budgets and revised disbursement schedule
- uonthly targets of activities and expenditure for the current fiscal
year
- contract-vise monthly expenditure vs. targets
Reports
4.      The above analyses should become a part of the periodical progress
reports?
- monthly status report
- quarterly progress report with consolidated accounts
- annual progress report, particularly covering sectoral impacts and
the policy issues.
manual
S.      To ensure data flows right from the beginning of the project it is
imperative to have the PUG prepare a formal manual for reporting by the
implementing agencies.



Annex 17
INDIA
TAMIL NADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT MRJECT
Urban Potvet lmoect (Uin millions)
Component  Cost        Spent on     Total UP  Cost/UP    Total   Average
Poo       Benefited B nefited Senefited Cost/cao
(US$ m)    MX  (US# m) (No. 000)   CS)   (No. 000)   (5)
LAND       167.3    35       56.5     263       223      350      476
GUD         9.1      90      8.1       45       161       60      151
SIP         31.7     75      23.6     400       60       470       67
TRAMP       66.3     n.e     ne       nae       n.a      n.a      n.a
PTC         40.4     40      16.2     565       26       1462      28
lMIf        127.0   n.e.    n.e        n.a      n.e      n.e       n.a



-5. -
INDIA
TAMIL NADU URBAN DIVEWPNIWT PROJECT
List of Documents on ProJect File
A. Sites and Services (LAND)
Ambattur Site:
1. Detailed Engineering and Cost Estimates
2. Design Brief *
3. Memo from Appraisal Mission (October 27, 1987)
re. environmental protection
Ganapathy Site:
4. Detailed Engineering and Cost Estimates
5. Design Brief *
6. Sketch of Low Cost Sanitation unit to be used in LAND
and SIP Schemes
7. Financial and Operating Model Outputs for TIB's Programs
B. Guided Development
8. Explanation and Guidelines (Draft)
C. Slum Improvement (SIP)
9. Pricing and Cost Recovery Estimates *
10. Designs for Pre-schools, P.C. Units, Roads and Drains
11.  Layouts for Prototype Improvement Neighborhoods
12. TNSCBs: Existing Organization and Expansion Program
13. Financial and Operating Model for TNSCB's Programs
D. Pallavan Transport Corporation (PTC)
14. Financial and Operating Model Outputs
15. PTC Note re. Revision of Fares for 1988/89
16. Economic Rate of Return Estimates for Additional and
Replacement Buses
E. Traffic and Transport (TRAMP)
17. Internal Rate of Return Calculation for Salai Road
to Karur Road Link
18. DHRW Traffic Engineering Cell: Note on Salient Activities



F. Municipal Urban Developm.nt Fund (RUDy)
19. Printouts of Sources and Applications of hunds, etc. *
20. Financial and Operating Model Outputs for:
(a) Madras Municipal corporation (bMC) *
(b) MASCOT Municipalities: *
Coimbatore Municipal Corporation
Salem Municipality
Trichy Municipality
Madurai Municipality
(c) Outer Madras Municipalities (MOMS) *
21. ORG Consultants Report for MOMS
22. Proposed Rules and Regulations for MUDP
C. Management and Implementation
23. Bus Fare Expert Comittee: C.O. establishing
24. High Powered Policy and State Level Coordinating
Committees: 0.0. establishing
25. Project Management Group: C.o. establishing
26. City Management Committeess C.O. establishing
27.  Guided Urban Development.  Letter authorizing MmD to explore
28. Municipal Urban Development Fund: C.O. establishing
29.  Empowered Committee: 0.O. establishing
30. 8lum Improvement: Letter of 12 April 1988 re. SIP
program for 1988/89, including statement on recovery of
Slum Improvement charges.
He Others
29. Detailed Project Cost Tables *
30. Urban Agglomeration - a note defining and describing
31. Procurement and Contract Sizes - Appraisal Mission Notes
32. CTN Interest Rates - 0.O. setting out for 1986/87
33. Employment Generation Estimates for Ambattur Tank LAND Site.
Note: Where computer models and estimates have been used, the computer
document is provided in the project file on diskettes as indicated
with an *



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-I
INDIA
TAML NADU U1BAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (TNJDP)
Low Cost Santion Selelon Algorithm
(It is assumed water Is suffilent for pour flush toilets)
START:
[Are plot azes lare  YE    Is water ablemwre #= one| YE       WIsulffldeMy|   YES  Iswtrgpy|                   Pou  Flush
wnough to acomodatb YE8 meter below ground surface        permbable?                from conaminatIon YES        ur
twin pits?                                                                                                    TW    Pi   --*y te
Can the larine       YES         Are veniated      YES    h water supply safe  YES  Ventilated
level be rdsod?                  l mpad pb               W ,1m conianisaton'  _    mproved                CID
socdylZ acoepbbole-                                   Pit               I
Latrlnes
Are ommnunity septc tanks possible  YES        bI wais Suppl $ae from    YES                      Pour Flush
In efm of space anid grund                  *c, oontakninon?                           -       * CommuneWith
conditions?                                                                                       Communal
Septic Tanks.
Pour Flush
Wlbth  Sewers.
i                                                                                          #~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



, Com   S &~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mammu
NM - TAML NADU URBAN DEVELOPMENr PROJECT
Engineeiln. Community Development & 06hw ActIvitie
Tvnl Xim Imanvnmat Sdm.
lilt      It"    EM    4 was,44$IW  0   400   4    wo   n     &W    1    1MIND 0    St  B  111 
~~~<    3 ~~~~~-
69wwm~~~~~~~~~
-."                        \    1-  141                                   V-~
§s"w ~~~~~*                           lvm   a 14\  * 4.       I    s     -|     -
a        a   T~~~w   1      14  .me ~~~CN a~ I                                    b
01*67    III         14iq d4S 9                                                         Uis
_ _ uBt _ W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m                                          _  1_1  ii *
ML*~~~L~
,~~~~ _
-D -
cJ o?:w .01



Ca4RT
INDIA
TAMNADUU UOIEVELCPM8ETPACT
Skim h_ymit P-o
LanA.Id lmiu si m not Awiv. IA3M
ml "BP   of * PdnbJ   ShoI Pn Cre*a  Pral"tW
by W rC                                   m W id O i
Relom  EarIe i'nd Sto 0m
NDI
_tol U S E Pi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n Trwe  mInI ad
Po"lbilib                         Pr_m DTro_ Wet OPt Dnd
CEcat0e Pos I I
P"W E4m* nd b Orw
;                   d~~~~~~, TWW  R -of i-.Zwd lb
.m 0          ,enr was r           DO  Thnu* a* t DSW
dnbkclbn of occupat
hotubolds to be elocated
_~~~~~~~~~~~~W~ Pi Conztota_t                    s
__~~~~~St                         b40   P   _F_ nw
bmd Over AMas t
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4P



TAMIL NADU URBAL _                               * PROJECT
Flow of Funds (Re cror.s)                                                           *              *     _  _  _
) F~~~D                                                                      6*dk    * mo  n  a_-_ __m
t <lF g : 16  i  4*- 6               *
eavErAmm 4op Taft           4KPID
|                                                         I
OlLIm    R~~~~~~S           ka Git                    Ti am
346            3       4         INSB
.I 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u                                               A  a



N
NA SECTION



ro Ne/l,,
INDIA                                                                                                     b
TAMIL NADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                       ANDIA PRADtSH
URBAN AGGLOMERATIONS                                                                                                       I           '
Urban Agglomeatbns under the project                                                               v vy              S - /   , >nR
a ond their populatiom* ns            K-1 p'                                                                                               Mo
O                           Unerth tNotiond highwag!lore                        )                                                                       c T Ch ,  S
Sehkbdtrailrocids <  >t   g\2\z}k
Rivers                 .                                                                                                          -ALP         T
-- -  Distrit boundaries                                                                           247000
State and Union Territory olaries
Intemational boundaries    it                                                                                                             4/28' 0P
'Circle sizes appoximate the relaive pogoulotian
s DKiHARg; AP)
of i e proettWu(1981)                 2                        .,    .,,# 
KARNArTAKA
12'~~ V                                                                                                                         '0 \"1ODcvIr            1? 
-120                                                      [                /                       F  -    \'t                       S/ jo>ocy                      lr
-z ,. 0 P .o, ....~AKITAN                                                   k-.      T,i~tCHINA
r\   3,  Fo 1 % f /L~~___                                                                                                                          A .; \-DiS, Hji 
Truvoadrum~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iukoi
The World Basic's staff .c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wre~~~ihuf
Icr ifi camvc  =19                                                               0        25       50       75i  r
rea;de,rs                 ,         ,          '.d     r esrAA' fo I.     p  TlUhhtp,d
kiana sao The  .l                                                                                                                         Pe B  u  a
an 93 klactts Fric                                                                             KILOMEE;  U  s9  \TERS\-£
.: / M~orwnodurc --
used<_ (n 93dunogstrax as Mo
or?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t 93 mapvi doulu.l not hepS. Io CSl                                                                           TAAU.
hc~~ftvnansFnc I rprat,j                                                                                                                StI LANKA
'f a/ |atw or any                                                       -                                                 nui
andorsemenl or acceptance of ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ Toucch                                                            Ngapain
much ~    ~ bomse  7?'                                    .8,                   .-,-                                     1U
KERA. I A2,0                                                                         
Copaabx ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~R LANKAna5_ I
ussd and ^e  _   rm  }    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hkd
of vxytctyorany ~~~~        ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~       ~        ~       I        D      5I tAN4i
Te _c map    c hubwpod by
r"d SW i,8 awi* fo m



.nd the thte,n.tc,a Feene                                          To                                                j 
.Sed end fte bn-Ulch1rncc... 
Ctctan thit,o                                                                             , 0**,                1%   
N"WonhsnCoo#prM To Nvllore X 
Da rt  Wi Tie wnId Sa,  and ftr.
h-teat. rndnre CoW.tn ~
an   opn,.nt on It.  e bat .Jtc.s  
otIny t Ltor       t la  
endcraente  or acCeptnce cifi                                                       
SheA boAa.dtne
.1 " W"w  X "'SI
MINJ O
t  \   MANAL1 I    4
pvJ '\ . W a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A- t,                                                 r  4,
f   X                                               v                                       I                                       De,,ga!  l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iv,
ec~~~~~~~~~~~~~ JAb r,   
%   ,-
A                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~In
To4_ ArIEKo Agbtu
TAMIL NADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT W-- I
Amm ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -
IV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
LAND (Sitos and Services) Arkas:  Nationalmhighways   /  ~  a^NGiDESH
TAMIL NADUl URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT nentSTAN J .                                                                                        PA         2
/TAMBARAM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANLhE1
FAYP (Si/es and Services) Area90                  -     -  Nrbationall 2igas                                                                                    I
FY 88/89 and FY ~~~~                    -     SIP (Slum Improvement Program) pricing zone boundaries
Inner Ring Road sections:                                     Urban Land Ceiling Act boundary
--  Madras Urban Developmtent Project I                  ,-      Madras Urban Development Fund study areas              -151V
-   Madras Urban Development Project 11'I                          and populations(l981)
Tamil Nadu Urban Development Project:               -----  Madras Metropolitan Area boundary - past 1978                                 J   
New                                               -*--  Madras Cityboundary                                                                        CHINA
Improvements                                               Municipal and township bOundaJ tes COM   ONENT
SANGLIWEA
FY 88*89 andFY890SIP(SlumImrovemenProgra)pricinzoneInternational boundaries 
0                                                                                                                                       _ 5e 5R   R



. I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IBRD 2O'
A
TAMIL NADU                        .EV                                PROJECT
URBAN AGGL-.  tkA _ IS: SA EM Al ) MADURAI
*  Proposed LAND (Sites and Services) for                   -®-National highways
SAL EM FY 88/89 und FY 89/90 Implementation                                                                                                                           Other main roads
-_ <(Standard Urban Area (Agglomerotion) boundaries                e-      Railroads
-Municipal town boundaries
Other town boundaries                                             Forest awea
----Village boundaries                                           .... 4Scrub areas
Urban Land Ceiling Act boundaries L Q
E       Forest/Scrub area
7                                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Built-up areas:  ~Wtrbde
ro~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F"   Moeate                                                                                                                                      River
(  '                                 ,                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SIP (Slum Improvement Program)            International boundaries
/  ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ IPricing Zone bounidaries
i f 'r     , t-.   '- 
L~~~A  ~~~  -.  Tfr'  WEVNXAtADPM~~~~~T D-wdTO e&
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
i -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.*e ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~S
s-S - ,*nS. Pet.~PAISAN/N1    CIN
.'P~~~~~~~*  - te  - -"    sl*                                            -      'J A
-- ~~~~~~~~~~~ 'POW ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    .5
a-a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~asPeimOS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     PP
2       4        6        8 KILOMETERS                  Se a        jMI,JU
MARCH 198



IBRD 2
2       4        6        8 KILOMETERS
I                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
2-          4             MLES                                                                                                                                                                A  -  S:CO CA _0                  A              _C  RA_ ALLI
a .a'r                                                                                                                                                                      *     Proposed LANDL1 pites and Sefvices) for               -3PL     National highways
mseasuc*_lev F _  rO Ceonoer                                                                                                           FY 88/89 and sy 89/90 Implementation                          Other main roads
.naw, t~r.                                                                                                                                                                             StSandrd Urban AreU (Agglomeration) boundaries        - r    Ai  Railroads
*r, -. y.o. o                                                                                                                                                                          Municipal town boundarim
>tttO'It.t                                       9-                                                                                                                                    Other town boundaries                                 -- 1  Scrub areas
a~                                    1   >                                                                                                                                   Village boundaries                                            Woter bodies
'*YAIerAEICAN  ~ ~ JCO     IMBATO RE                                                                                                    Urban Land Ceiling Act boundaries                    7 _   Rivers and tributaries
Built-up areas:
Het $                                                       iAWgt Built-up areos ---- International boundaries
Moderate
SIP (Slum Improvement Program) Pricing Zone boundaries
>  ,~~~~~~~~TR XUCHCHIRAPPALI  ; 
p  ~~~~~~~~~ACHINA
SANGO,
INDIA
detad                                                                                                                                                               8,a~~~oDdgd,    /1
/                    ji'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
To Polioo%i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
To Tndsw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
MARCH'



IBRD  02
_0    _LO                                    PAI sN/                   '       CHINA              
\B\_2 i<   ANGLADESH                            A           VA 
\AJ S ARING/ 'A   .                           ,
INDIA \   .. ^            .PROJEC7:                                                               EXISTING:
_  r\\                                  [ p       \                  -/      O ^    1 12-                Preect ore boundaries                               Huts: 
-~~~~ ~Publc convenience:area                                     tL      ro
Preschool area                                          Tiled roof
PubiX\   tr   '   s |   Vhlc open rpaces         [=ir   Future sites of huts relocoted from
-b.-               MA                                 *     Public opnwaee onts                                    orea allocated to private ijwwte
\X\Am4r -NADU  \         \        1        }      c c,.AM t NAt * Psb                              OeL   I    Oigin  sites of relocat  huts
I   ~ ~ ~~~~~   ,~~~~~~~ ~~0                              Deep bore well itetlgt
\SlI tANKA                       0     Street lights
-  -   S    water drains                    ~~~~~~~Storm water drains
55.  ~    ~        -        torm? wow_roi                                     Roads
____Roads:
\W h.. b- -  &   0                     _       Cut stone pavement                        -        Railroad
t  1 $  ' ,,.-. e_ _                              Water bound macdorn and blacktop            JJ  Unencrooched private lands
14W~M ~ f R. W.W 68M          '! -Z   Footpaths
Pd)$                                                                                                                       ------ Area to be returned vacant to owr                  Internafnonol Boundaries
-;i                                                                         PI     1 Th     Md G&   WV
-  -  - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~*Wfw  -cww
O,         50          ICO        130
PUBLIC OWNERSHIP:                                                                           FEET
TIRUCHCHIRAPPALU - Kamorai Nagar
RAMAKRISHNA    SCHOOL    PLAYGROUND
o°   ;fl                                                                  =oKRISHNA    SWAMY    STREET
S~~~~~L fl SjSS                                                                                                                                                                 Xz
C3~~~I                                                                                                                             0 
-~~~-:
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                     I~~~!"L 
ELi       ~~~                                             C         ___I AjIf
~~ ~W11uw BJIJ[] ~L [<]1[UI I IIU   ~
PRVAE WNRSIP
MADRAS - Rajuhilloi Thotto
000[]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MRH18



INDi 20.
MO,ap ,<, lms   prepadINDIA
." f4fln*l Ist SW c
Sco,S XCceb Vese^>d a"TAMIL NADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Wdttlv UrtStd0*V*ttto                                      \                                                               LAND  USE AND  INFRASTRUCTURE: MADRAS - Ambattur Sites and Services Scheme
at d' . boonyw \O
Th.wo Ad Sal* rwo   v. ttLAND USE                                                                                                                                                                                     COMUJUNITY FACILITIES
fo,t~ on ffti tega S^dalS                           'MARKETABLE:                                                                                                            AREA                                        EDUCATIONAL:
oo n reotaoe of                                                                                                                                                               afe.caros   PERCENTAGE            NS       Nursery schools
0.1d..-                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Residential
O. D.P. PLOTS  p   _    ¢         .   39.07        45-16                    PS       Prmaryshool
Inca"eton(.si    PNS ~ild                                                    High school
/ R / s \ 5 \  EZZ  E.W.S. A  Ax4  1259      400                                          S     RElGIOUS
E.W.S. B    10x4     2202   s                                                     OPEN SPACES:
~~~~ ~~   L.IG. I      12x5     1259     850                                          c       Children's play spaces
[ZIISIZ]   L.I.G. II  l5x6   118  1250r    tan
~~  ML 0.  iSslO  409  2000 ~~~~~~~~~~~PO                                 POST OFFICE
H.I.G.     22x14       63i    3500                                         "      PLC   TTO
tiZI~~~~   H.IG. APARTMENTS      283    3500      1.00        1.16                    FS     FIRE STATION
Total 6293
Eli nstitutional                               8.19        9.46                    PP     PUBLIC PURPOSEF
Industriol                               0.99        1.14                     5     SHOPS
P                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prime Commercial & Commercial  5.19    6.00                    cm     DAILY MARKET
NON-AkARKETABLE:                                           W~~~~~~~Ss  SEWAGE PUMPING STATION
Roads                        ~~~~~20.70   23.92
E--ZJ-   Open spoces                                11.38       13.16                           International Boundaries
TYP-CAL CIUSTFRS JILOC:k                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAKISTAN /. *         CIA
A~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B
INDIA
f.  NS                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TAMIL
SRI
LANKA
70'f    750      8WI 
Is M.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
-z~~~~~T
pp ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                                           o
Indvstiol
P~~~j~~5  5l~~~~*  EdO ~~~Area
~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Built-up areas                                         To    oeiT O
-   .~~~~~~~~~... ~~~~~~~Ambtomr
f2 o                                       Maj~~~~~~~~~~~~..,or roads                                     Industriol
Railroacds                                                 C3  EsiOS
statfions 
0  so  240 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tank                                                                                                           SITE
METERS                                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~shallow bed
of tank                                             inusilEstate
APRIL



PAKISTANCHN
('-N
SRI
LANKAUE4.5                                                   O.0COMNT  fCLE
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    Plo Sodipr  TehnIoy  To 1cucA
CBE~~~~~~~~~~~~C
RoUrood>                            men      b       hP                                                       piQy ho
re I ~     ~        Cet.lG        25      9      80H                                                       EIA
tBusStnd
TAMIl. NADU4 URBAN DEVOPMENT SPRECTS
Propos  LANDiUSE: COIMBATORE 2                      6.25 S      and Spie  Scheme
LAN /    dUSEra                          41.705      10.00                             COMUIT Negb AboccrkE
§                            NON-IZ~~~MAKEABLE:L                  128.03      70.00                              EDUCaTgrounA)L:
R Rocesanrpas                          2.46        51.80                       NS      NuEery school
_                   I ~~~~~~~~~~~~RIlrOoenspxs   rk,adpagons        309ao
- - - Bus linerhs)- flt..  PWS PbyTMnmad WyI sc -.ools,fh
LJ..I   2tc    ~9 ~         INMDICA
ZZ         TAMIL.NADU15URB44    12E0ECTPRECREATIONAL
N.I.G.    22x14 ~~~~~~                                                   OPEN SPACES:NTAO
NNMARKETABLE:                       28.02       30.00                        P      DPCATIrOuNAL
Roaidsntand pasage                      80.42       21.00                       NT       Nurerhey  tanool
F1    Op~~~EnWS sAcs park 68an   400runs    360         90



