Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1923 IN
              (Tamil Nadu Urban Development Project)
                              between
                               INDIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     Dated September 16, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1923 IN
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 1988, between INDIA, acting by
its  President  (the   Borrower)   and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Project will be  carried  out  by the State of Tamil
Nadu through the Implementing  Agencies with the Borrower's assis-
tance and, as  part  of  such  assistance,  the Borrower will make
available to the State of Tamil Nadu the proceeds of the Credit as
provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith between the Association
Page  2
and the State of Tamil Nadu, acting by its Governor;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in   the   General  Conditions  have  the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Tamil Nadu" means the  State  of  Tamil Nadu, acting by
its Governor, a State of India and includes any successor thereto;
     (b)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association and Tamil Nadu of even  date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (c)  "Implementing   Agencies"    means    the   departments,
corporations, municipalities and other agencies and authorities of
Tamil Nadu responsible for  implementing  the  Project or any part
thereof;
     (d)  "MMDA"  means   the   Madras   Metropolitan  Development
Authority;
     (e)  "GUD" means the  guided  urban development program being
administered by MMDA;
     (f)  "PTC" means the Pallavan  Transport Corporation of Tamil
Nadu;
     (g)  "MUDF" means the Tamil  Nadu Municipal Urban Development
Fund established by G.O.Ms No.  404  dated April 18, 1988 of Tamil
Nadu;
     (h)  "TNHB" means the Tamil Nadu Housing Board;
     (i)  "LAND"   means   the   land   servicing   program  being
administered by TNHB;
     (j)  "TNSCB" means the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board;
     (k)  "SIP"  means   the   slum   improvement   program  being
administered by TNSCB;
     (l)  "PMG" means the Project  Management Group established by
G.O.Ms. No. 1385 dated September 3, 1987 of Tamil Nadu;
     (m)  "CMC" means a City  Management  Committee referred to in
G.O.Ms. No. 1151 dated August 3, 1987 of Tamil Nadu; and
     (n)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set  forth or referred to in the Deve-
lopment Credit Agreement, an  amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to two hundred sixteen  million five hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 216,500,000).
Page  3
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Reserve Bank
of India on terms and  conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  3 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1995 or
such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.   The  rate  set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable  on  each  June  1  and December 1
commencing  December  1,  1998  and  ending  June  1,  2023.  Each
installment to and including  the  installment  payable on June 1,
2008  shall  be  one  and  one-fourth  percent  (1-1/4%)  of  such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and
one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Page  4
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above,  the  Association determines that the Bor-
rower's economic  condition  has  deteriorated  significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of  its  other  obligations  under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause Tamil  Nadu  to  perform in accordance with
the provisions of  the  Project  Agreement  all the obligations of
Tamil Nadu therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate  to enable Tamil Nadu to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  make  the  proceeds  of  the Credit
available to Tamil Nadu in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 1 to
the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports, maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried  out  by  Tamil  Nadu  through  the  Implementing Agencies
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the  Credit  Account  were  made  on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one year  after  the Association has received
               the audit report for  the  fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from  the  Credit Account was made;
Page  5
               and
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) (i) of this  Section for each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year the report of such audit
               by said auditors, of such  scope and in such detail
               as the Association shall have reasonably requested,
               including a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall have the Special Account for
each  financial  year  audited   in  accordance  with  appropriate
auditing principles, consistently  applied by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association  and  furnish  to the Association as
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each year the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope  and  in  such  detail  as  the  Association shall have
reasonably requested.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Tamil Nadu shall have failed to perform any of its obli-
gations under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall  make  it improbable that Tamil Nadu
will be able to perform  its  obligations under the Project Agree-
ment.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and  shall  continue  for  a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  is  specified  as an additional
matter, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02  (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in  the  opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association, namely,  that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or  ratified  by  Tamil  Nadu, and is legally
binding upon Tamil Nadu in accordance with its terms.
Page  6
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.03. The provisions  of  Section 5.02 of this Agree-
ment shall cease and determine  on  the date on which the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement  shall  terminate  or  on  the date 25 years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  7.01.  Any  Secretary,  Additional  Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy  Secretary  or  Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in  the  Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Secretary to the Government of India
          Ministry of Finance
          Department of Economic Affairs
          New Delhi, India
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               ECOFAIRS                          953-313546
               New Delhi
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INDIA
                    By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
Page  7
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
   Category                SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works            146,000,000         75%
(2)  Equipment and           27,700,000         100% of foreign
     materials                                  expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(3)  Home expansion          14,700,000         75%
     loans and GUD
(4)  Consultants'             1,400,000         100%
     services and
     training
(5)  PMG and CMC              4,800,000         100%
     recurrent
     costs
(6)  Unallocated             21,900,000
                            ___________
          TOTAL             216,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of  this  Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 7,250,000,
may be made on  account  of  payments made for expenditures before
that date but after November 1, 1987.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives  of  the  Project  are  to:  (i) improve Tamil
Nadu's capacity for  efficient  management  and financing of urban
development; (ii)  check  the  growth  of  and  improve the living
conditions in slums; and  (iii)  improve the management of finance
Page  8
and services   of  urban  public  transport,  with emphasis on the
needs of low income households.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Institutional Development
     MUDF
          (i)  Carrying out a  program  of  loans and grants under
               MUDF in Tamil Nadu.
     Technical Assistance
         (ii)  Utilization of  consultants'  services and training
               for coordination of the  Project and for the Imple-
               menting Agencies,  including  provision  of related
               equipment.
Part B:   Shelter
     LAND
          (i)  The construction of  serviced  plots, core housing,
               community   facilities    and    related   off-site
               infrastructure,  including   provision  of  shelter
               loans for  about  70,000  low-income  households in
               Tamil Nadu.
     GUD
         (ii)  The carrying out  of  a  program  for providing  of
               off-site  infrastructure  and  community facilities
               under  GUD  and  home  expansion  loans,  including
               acquisition of low-income serviced plots.
     SIP
        (iii)  The    construction    of    on-    and    off-site
               infrastructure, provision  of  tenure and community
               facilities for  about  94,000  households on public
               and private land.
Part C:   Transport
     Traffic Management and Transport
          (i)  The construction and improvement of roads, bridges,
               signals and pedestrian facilities.
     PTC
         (ii)  Provision of about 1,000 buses and the construction
               and  equipping  of   bus   depots,  bus  terminals,
               workshops and passenger  shelters  to support PTC's
               medium-term investment program.
                            *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means the Categories set
Page  9
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to SDR 10,500,000  to  be  withdrawn  from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion from the Credit  Account  under the respective eligible Cate-
gories, and in the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall have
been justified by  the  evidence  supporting  the request for such
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment  was made for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of paragraph  (a) of Section 2.02 of
               this Agreement and  Article  V  of the General Con-
               ditions; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn  amount  of  the Credit allo-
               cated to the eligible  Categories, minus the amount
               of any outstanding  special commitment entered into
               by the Association pursuant  to Section 5.02 of the
               General Conditions  with  respect  to  the Project,
               shall be  equal  to  the  equivalent  of  twice the
               amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
Page  10
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible  Categories   shall   follow   such   procedures  as  the
Association shall specify by notice  to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice  will  be   utilized   in   making  payments  for  eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii)  was  not justified by the evidence fur-
nished to  the  Association,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly upon
notice from the Association deposit  into the Special Account (or,
if the Association, shall  so  request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal  to  the  amount  of  such  payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible  or  justified.  No further deposit by the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
