Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1923 IN
              (Tamil Nadu Urban Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                        STATE OF TAMIL NADU
                     Dated September 16, 1988
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  September  16,  1988, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and STATE OF TAMIL NADU,
acting by its Governor (Tamil Nadu).
     WHEREAS by  the  Development  Credit  Agreement  of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association  has  agreed to make available to
the Borrower an  amount  in  various  currencies equivalent to two
hundred sixteen  million  five  hundred  thousand  Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 216,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Tamil
Nadu agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
are set forth in this Agreement;
     WHEREAS Tamil  Nadu,  in  consideration  of the Association's
entering into the Development  Credit  Agreement with the Borrower
has agreed to undertake the  obligations  set forth in this Agree-
ment;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  Development Credit Agreement and in
the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined)  have  the  respective
meanings therein set  forth,  and  the  term "Empowered Committee"
means the Committee established  by  Tamil  Nadu by its G.O.Ms No.
467 dated April 11, 1988.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) Tamil  Nadu  declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out or
cause to be  carried  out  through  the Implementing Agencies, the
Project with due diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial  and engineering practices,
and shall provide, or  cause  to  be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services  and  other resources required for
the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and Tamil Nadu shall
otherwise agree, Tamil Nadu shall  cause the Project to be carried
out in accordance with:  (i)  the Implementation Program set forth
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement;  and (ii) an operational action
plan agreed upon between the  Association  and Tamil Nadu, as such
plan may  be  reviewed  annually  and  amended,  as  necessary, by
agreement between the Association and Tamil Nadu.
     (c)  Tamil Nadu  shall  make  available  to  the Implementing
Agencies funds  equivalent  to  the  proceeds  of  the Credit made
available by the Borrower  to  Tamil  Nadu on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
     Section  2.03.  Tamil  Nadu   shall  cause  the  Implementing
Agencies to carry out the  obligations set forth in Sections 9.03,
9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07  and  9.08  of  the  General  Conditions
(relating to  insurance,  use  of  goods  and  services, plans and
schedules, records and reports,  maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
     Section 2.04. (a) Tamil  Nadu  shall,  at  the request of the
Association exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the  performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters  relating  to the purposes of the
Credit.
     (b)  Tamil Nadu shall promptly  inform the Association of any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by  Tamil Nadu of its obligations under
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
      Management and Operations of the Implementing Agencies
     Section  3.01.  Tamil  Nadu   shall  cause  the  Implementing
Agencies to:  (i)  carry  on  their  operations  and conduct their
affairs in  accordance  with  sound  administrative, financial and
Page  3
engineering  practices  under  the  supervision  of  qualified and
experienced management  assisted  by  competent  staff in adequate
numbers; (ii)  at  all  times  operate  and  maintain their plant,
machinery, equipment and other  property,  and  from time to time,
promptly  as  needed,  make  all  necessary  repairs  and renewals
thereof, all in  accordance  with  sound engineering and financial
practices;  and  (iii)  take  out  and  maintain  with responsible
insurers, or make other  provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and  in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  Tamil  Nadu  shall  cause the Implementing
Agencies to maintain records  and  accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound  accounting  practices  their operations and
financial condition, including  separate  records  and accounts in
respect of the Project.
     (b)  Tamil Nadu shall cause  TNHB,  TNSCB, PTC, the Municipal
Corporations of Madras and  Coimbatore,  and the municipalities of
Madurai, Salem and Trichy to:
          (i)  have their records,  accounts  and financial state-
               ments (balance  sheets,  statements  of  income and
               expenses and  related  statements)  for each fiscal
               year  audited,   in   accordance  with  appropriate
               auditing principles consistently  applied, by inde-
               pendent auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not  later  than nine  months after
               the end of each such  year, (A) certified copies of
               its  financial  statements  for  such  year  as  so
               audited, and (B) the  report  of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Association shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     Section 4.02. Except as  the Association may otherwise agree,
Tamil Nadu shall cause PTC to take all such action as is necessary
to  ensure  that  PTC's   operating  costs  (which  shall  include
depreciation but  exclude  interest  and  other  charges  on debt,
corporate taxes and subvention) do not exceed 98% of its operating
revenues, for the average of  the last, current and next following
financial year.
     Section 4.03. Tamil Nadu shall  reimburse  PTC at the rate of
70%  for  PTC's  losses  on   subsidized  student  riders  in  two
installments every year in accordance with a formula acceptable to
the Association.
     Section 4.04. (a)  Except  as  the  Association may otherwise
agree, Tamil Nadu shall cause PTC to take all such action as shall
be required to produce,  for  each  of  its financial years, funds
from internal sources  equivalent  to  not  less  than  20% of the
annual average of PTC's capital expenditures incurred, or expected
to be incurred, during  the  last,  current and the next following
financial years.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "funds  from  internal  sources" means the
               difference between:
Page  4
               (1)  The sum  of  gross  revenues  from all sources
                    related to  PTC  operations, net non-operating
                    income and any  reduction  in non-cash working
                    capital; and
               (2)  The sum  of  all  expenses  of PTC operations,
                    including   maintenance   and   administration
                    (excluding  depreciation  and  other  non-cash
                    operating charges), interest and other charges
                    on debt (excluding  interest  financed under a
                    loan contract), repayment  of loans (including
                    sinking fund payments,  if  any), all taxes or
                    payments in lieu of  taxes, all cash dividends
                    and  other  cash   distributions  of  surplus,
                    increase in  net  working  capital  other than
                    cash, and any  other  cash outflows other than
                    cash expenditures related to PTC operations.
         (ii)  The term "capital  expenditures" means all expendi-
               tures  incurred  on  account  of  fixed  or capital
               assets, including interest charged to construction,
               related to PTC operations.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of Tamil  Nadu  thereunder  shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall have terminated in accordance with its terms;
               or
         (ii)  the date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
Tamil Nadu of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
Page  5
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For Tamil Nadu:
          Chief Secretary to the Government of
            Tamil Nadu
          Fort St. George, Madras 600009
          India
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                CHIEFSEC                       41-238-7400
                Madras
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Tamil  Nadu  may  be taken or executed by a
Secretary to the Government of Tamil  Nadu or such other person or
persons as Tamil Nadu shall  designate  in writing, and Tamil Nadu
shall  furnish  to  the  Association  sufficient  evidence  of the
authority and the  authenticated  specimen  signature of each such
person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    STATE OF TAMIL NADU
                    By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                        Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
Page  6
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
          (i)  Contracts for civil  works  may  be  awarded on the
               basis of competitive  bidding advertised locally in
               accordance  with  procedures  satisfactory  to  the
               Association.
         (ii)  Contracts for equipment  and materials estimated to
               cost the equivalent of $200,000  each or less up to
               an aggregate amount  equivalent  of $10,000,000 may
               be procured  on  the  basis  of competitive bidding
               advertised locally  in  accordance  with procedures
               satisfactory to the Association.
        (iii)  Small  items  of   specialized   nature  up  to  an
               aggregate amount  of  $1,000,000  equivalent may be
               procured  through  normal  commercial  channels  by
               inviting quotations from at least three suppliers.
         (iv)  Bus bodies may be built by PTC in its own workshops
               through force account.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract  for (i) civil works esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of  $650,000 or more, and (ii) equip-
ment and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall  apply.  Where  payments for such contract
are to be made out  of  the Special Account, such procedures shall
be modified  to  ensure  that  the  two  conformed  copies  of the
contract required to be  furnished  to the Association pursuant to
said paragraph 2 (d) shall  be  furnished to the Association prior
to the making of the first  payment  out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract for civil works estimated
to cost  the  equivalent  of  more  than  $450,000  but  less than
$650,000, the procedures set forth  in sub-paragraphs (b), (c) and
(d)  of  paragraph  2,  and  paragraph  4  of  Appendix  1  to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two  conformed  copies of the contract together
with  the  other  information  required  to  be  furnished  to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (c)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraphs (a)  and  (b),  the  procedures  set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  together with the other informa-
tion required to be furnished  to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished  to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     (d)  The provisions of  the  preceding subparagraphs (a), (b)
and (c) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Asso-
ciation has authorized withdrawals from  the Credit Account on the
Page  7
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section   4.01  (a)  (ii)  of  the
Development Credit Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist Tamil Nadu  in carrying out Part A (ii) of
the Project, Tamil  Nadu  shall  employ  or  cause to be employed,
consultants whose qualifications, experience  and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be  selected  in  accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to  the  Association  on  the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
1.   The rules and procedures for  the  operation of MUDF, and the
terms and conditions under which loans/grants would be made avail-
able to the municipalities  shall  be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.
2.   LAND schemes shall  be  implemented  only  on sites which are
selected  in  accordance  with  a  criteria  satisfactory  to  the
Association.
3.   The plans, layouts,  engineering  designs  and standards, and
the development and building regulations,  in respect of LAND, GUD
and SIP schemes shall be satisfactory to the Association.
4.   In respect of LAND,  GUD  and  SIP  schemes, Tamil Nadu shall
recover all chargeable costs (as agreed between Tamil Nadu and the
Association) from the beneficiaries,  and the terms and conditions
of  leases  and  home   improvement  loans,  and  the  beneficiary
selection criteria and  procedures,  shall  be satisfactory to the
Association.
5.   In order to ensure adequate planning, coordination, implemen-
tation and management of  the  Project,  Tamil Nadu shall maintain
the Empowered Committee, PMG and CMCs.
