CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 625 ZR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Water Supply Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 18, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 18, 1976, between the REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to assist
in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project de-
scribed in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit
as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Borrower has contracted from the Arab Bank for
Economic Development in Africa a loan in the amount of ten million
dollars ($10,000,000) to assist in financing certain parts of the
same Project in the towns of Lubumbashi and Kamina;
WHEREAS the Borrower has contracted from the African Develop-
ment Bank a loan in the amount of five million units of account,
equivalent to about six million dollars, also to assist in financ-
ing parts of such Project in the town of Kananga; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements
of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "REGIDESO" means the authority for the distribution of
water and electricity of the Republic of Zaire, established and
operating pursuant to Law No. 73-026 of the Borrower dated July 20,
1973; and
(b) "Project Unit" means the unit referred to in Section 3.02
of this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty one million five hundred thousand dollars
($21,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods and services (other than consultants' services)
for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1979
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Absociation a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1986, and ending March 15,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable on
March 15, 1996, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause REGIDESO to carry
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and public utility prac-
tices, and shall provide or cause to be provided by REGIDESO,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) Pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower
shall relend to REGIDESO the proceeds of the Credit allocated to
Categories (1) through (5) of the table set forth in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 of this Agreement, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
providing for a term of 25 years including 5 years of grace, inter-
est at 8-1/2% per annum and containing such other terms and condi-
tions as shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.02. In order to assist REGIDESO in supervising the
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall cause REGIDESO to
employ engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Asociation, and who, together with at least nine senior tech-
nicians of REGIDESO including one engineer, shall comprise a Proj-
ect Unit responsible for the administration of the Project.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that REGIDESO
insures, or makes adequate provision for the insurance of, the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and that
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by REGIDESO to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that REGIDESO
furnish to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Associ-
ation shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to re-
cord the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Proj-
ect and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01,i (a) The Borrower shall cause REGIDESO to main-
tain records adeq,ate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of REGIDESO.
(b) The Borrower shall cause REGIDESO to: (i) have its ac-
counts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of in-
come and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) cer-
tified copies of its financial statements for such year as so au-
dited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other informa-
tion concerning the accounts and financial statements of REGIDESO
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) Pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower
shall cause REGIDESO (i) to adopt in its books the 1973 valuation
of its fixed assets and (ii) to allocate central and regional over-
heads properly to power and water accounts.


﻿-8-
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause REGIDESO to take out
and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate prac-
tice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause REGIDESO to complete
by June 30, 1977 a study of its tariffs for water and related ser-
vices. REGIDESO shall also determine whether it would be appropriate
to accord time-payment terms for charges for connections.
Section 4.04. Beginning in 1977, the Borrower shall cover
any operating losses of REGIDESO's power operations by subsidies
or general power tariff surcharges.
Section 4.05. The Borrower and REGIDESO shall maintain arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Association for collecting charges for
water supplied through standpipes.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall pay to REGIDESO promptly
when due all charges for water and power and shall continue to make
monthly payments against arrears so as to settle all outstanding
indebtedness to REGIDESO by the end of 1977.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall continue to allocate annually
through 1978 at least two million zaire for REGIDESO's capital
investments in new water-supply facilities and shall cover the full
cost of any such investment in electricity projects.


﻿-9-
Section 4.08. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall take or cause REGIDESO to take from
time to time beginning in 1978 all such steps (including, but
without limitation, adjustment of.the structure or overall level
of its water and electricity tariffs) as shall be required to
provide REGIDESO each year with funds from net internal cash
generation equivalent to not less than 7% of the total value of
its fixed assets related to its utility operations, including
work in progress;
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "funds from net internal cash gene-
ration" shall be calculated as the difference
between:
(A)  gross revenue from all sources related to
utility operations including installation
works, consumer deposits and net non-
operating income; and
(B)  the sum of all expenses of operations, main-
tenance and administration (excluding depre-
ciation), interest and other charges on debt
(excluding interest financed under any loan
agreement), repayment of loans (including
sinking fund payments, if any), all taxes or
payments in lieu of taxes, all cash distri-
butions of profit, increase (or decrease) in
net working capital other than cash, and any


﻿- 10 -
other cash outflows other than capital ex-
penditures related to utility operations;
(ii) the term "total value of its fixed assets re-
lated to utility operations, including work in
progress" means the value of utility plant in
operation after depreciation plus the value of
investment in plant not yet in service as es-
tablished at the end of the year, in accordance
with sound and consistently maintained methods
of valuation acceptable to the Association;
and
(iii) the term "increase (or decrease) in net work-
ing capital other than cash" means the differ-
ence between current assets excluding cash (or
its equivalent) less current liabilities at the
beginning and at the end of the year.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall cause REGIDESO (i) to ex-
change views with the Association during the first crimester of
each year on its program for capital investments in such year,
(ii) to furnish to the Association at the end of each year the
cash-flow projections of REGIDESO for the succeeding three years
and (iii) to borrow no more than two million zaire in any year
from 1976 through 1980, except for the Project, without the prior
approval of the Association.


﻿- 11 -
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall ensure that REGIDESO cond..
its operations at all times in accordance with appropriate finan-
cial, administrative, and public utility practices under qualified
and experienced management and personnel.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Law No. 73-026 of July 20, 1973 comprising the Statutes
of REGIDESO shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived in such a way as materially and adversely to affect the
ability of REGIDESO to carry out the Project or to conduct its
operations according to the provisions of Section 4.10 of this
Agreement.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower or of REGIDESO to
withdraw the proceeds of any grant or loan
made for the financing of the Project shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
the agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancel-


﻿- 13 -
lation, termination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower or of REGIDESO to
perform any of its obligations under such agreement,
and (B) adequate funds for the Project are avail-
able from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower un-
der this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following event is specified pursuant to paragraph
(d) thereof, amely, the event specified in paragraph (b) (i)B of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agree-
ment within the meaning of Section 12.01(b) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement referred to in Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement has been entered into between the Borrower
and REGIDESO; and
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
agreements between the Borrower and the Arab Bank for Economic
Development in Africa and the African Development Bank, for the
financing of the Project, except for the effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date September 15, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the De-
velopment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Commissaire d'Etat of the Borrower respon-
sible for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Departement des Finances
Boite Postale No. 12997
Kinshasa 1
Republic of Zaire
Cable address:                          Telex:
DENFIN                             298 KIN/GOMBE
Kinshasa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                          Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT),
Washington, D. C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, actinv through their
reoresentatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
By /s/ Asal B. Idzumbuir
Authorized ReDresentative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Stanley Please
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works
(a) Treatment              4,200,000         55%
plants; Pump-
ing stations*
(b) Pipe-laying**            400,000         13%
(c) Reservoirs**             600,000         50%
(d) Rehabilitation           700,000         50%
(Part C of the
Project)*
(2) Pipes**                     6,700,000         100% of foreign
expenditures or,
if awarded to a
local supplier
following inter-
national competi-
tion, 100% of ex-
factory price or,
if otherwise lo-
cally procured,
50%
*    Towns of Kisangani, Mbuji-Mayi, Mbandaka and Kananga only.
** Towns of Kisangani, Mbuji-Mayi and Mbandaka only.


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(3) Training                      100,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(4) Consultants' Ser-           3,800,000         100% of foreign
vices (except for                            expenditures
Part E of the Pro-
ject)
(5)  Consultants' Ser-            400,000         100% of foreign
vices (Part E of                             expenditures
the Project)
(6) Unallocated                 4,600,000
TOTAL      21,500,000


﻿- 19 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance
with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases
or increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, in-
crease or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $1,400,000 may be made in respect
of Category (4) on account of expenditures incurred prior to such
date but after August 1, 1975.


﻿- 20 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to an-
other Category and which in the opinion of the Association are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that fur-
ther withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expen-
ditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opin-
ion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would other-
wise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Credit.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a portion of the capital investment program of
REGIDESO for the period 1975-1980 and includes the following Parts:
Part A.   The construction of new production facilities and
expansion of existing facilities to provide continuous
piped purified water service in six major cities:
Lubumbashi, Kisangani, Kananga, Kbuji-Mayi, Mbandaka
and Kamina;
Part B.   The reinforcement and extension of the water distribution
systems in these cities to serve the entire urban areas,
the majority of new individual consumers being served by
public standpipes;
Part C.   The rehabilitation and modernization of the six cities'
existing water-distribution systems;
Part D.   The carrying out of a comprehensive training program for
the staff of REGIDESO; and
Part E.   The carrying out of preinvestment studies for the further
extension of the water supply in the cities of the Proj-
ect and in other towns, and for sewerage in critical ur-
ban areas.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1979.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B and E hereof, goods and works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for goods or works estimated to cost less than
50,000 zaire may be procured through local competition according
to the Borrower's own rules for procurement.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and simi-
lar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight :nd other expendi-
tures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use
or installation shall be included.


﻿- 23 -
2.   Goods manufactured in Zaire may be granted a margin of pre-
ference in accordance with, and subject to, the following provi-
sions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the informa-
tion required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such pre-
ference and the following methods and stages that will be followed
in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Zaire
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Zaire equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Zaire.
(3) Group C: bids offering aIy other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be


﻿- 24 -
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A
after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under
paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under
Category 1 of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domes-
tic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be required to submit together with
their bids, such information, including details of ownership, as
shall be required to determine whether, according to the classi-
fication established by the Borrower and accepted by the Association,


﻿- 25 -
a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic pre-
ference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the prefer-
ence and the method that will be followed in the evaluation and
comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by the Bor-
rower, responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)       bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
(ii)      bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
E.   Procurement Without Contracting
The laying of secondary distribution pipes and the installa-
tion of standpipes may be carried out by REGIDESO under force Ac-
count or under contracts procured through international competitive
bidding, as REGIDESO shall determine.
F.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts.


﻿- 26 -
With respect to all contracts for goods or works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall re-
quire the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants refer-
red to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendations
for award of the said consultants and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 27 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract to.be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph 1,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the con-
tract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.


