CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1516 JM
Loan Agreement
(Second Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
JAMAICA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY, LIMITED
Dated March 6, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1516 JM
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 6, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and JAMAICA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY, LIMITED (hereinafter called
the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) the term "Indenture" means the Indenture dated July 9,
1923, executed by the Borrower in favor of Montreal Trust Company,
as Trustee, and includes any indenture supplemental thereto
issued, executed and delivered in accordance with the provisions
of the Indenture;
(b) the term "Fifteenth Supplemental Indenture" means the
supplemental indenture which shall be executed by the Borrower
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 of this Agreement
providing for the issue, authentication and delivery of Debenture
Stock;
(c) the term "Debenture Stock" means first mortgage de-
benture stock issued pursuant to the Fifteenth Supplemental
Indenture and this Agreement;
(d) the term "subsidiary" means any corporation, firm or
association directly or indirectly controlled by the Borrower;
and
(e) the term "Licence" means the All Island Electric Licence
dated April 28, 1977, granted by the Guarantor to the Borrower and
shall include all amendments thereto.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million
dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and forty-five hundredths per cent (7.45%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate engineering, financial and public utility practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Parts A (i) and (ii), B (i), D and E of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, th2 imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall


﻿-4-
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrow-r and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out
the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times carry out its
operations, manage its affairs, plan its future expansion and
maintain its financial position in accordance with appropriate
engineering, financial and public utility practices under the
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
qualified and competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿- 5 -
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall:
(i) or)erate and maintain its plants, equipment and
property, and from time to time make all necessary
renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance
with appropriate engineering practices; and
(ii) take all steps necessary to maintain and renew all
rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are
necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall not sell, lease, transfer
or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets required for
the efficient conduct of its operations.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall no later than December 31,
1979 prepare with the assistance of consultants employed pursuant
to Section 3.02 of this Agreement a detailed program for training
its personnel particularly in maintenance and planning and shall
send to the Bank, for its review and comments, the said program
together with a schedule for carrying it out before the program is
put into effect.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall no later than March 31,
1979 establish an internal audit department directly responsible
to the Borrower's Executive Chairman. The organization and general
terms of reference of the department shall be determined by the
Borrower after prior consultation with the Bank.
Section 4.07. (a) The Borrower shall no later than June 30,
1978, or such other date as the Bank and the Borrower may agree,
appoint after prior consultation with the Bank a qualified
and experienced person as chief financial officer.
(b) The Borrower shall consult the Bank before it makes, or
agrees to make, any changes in the positions or in the persons
filling the positions of chief executive, chief financial officer
and chief technical officer of the Borrower.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall prepare and send to the Bank
for its review and comments a schedule construction for the 70 MW
oil-fired steam units proposed for Old Harbour and Hunts Bay under
the Borrower's five-year generation program and shall not under-
take any detailed engineering of the unit until after the Bank has
been afforded a reasonable opportunity for commenting on the said
schedule.


﻿-6-
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall cause each of its subsidi-
aries (if any) to observe and perform the obligations of the
Borrower under tiis Agreement to the extent to which the same may
be applicable thereto as though such obligations were binding upon
each of such subsidiaries.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audiLed,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) have
the results of the revaluation of its gross fixed assets in
operation required by Section 5.05 hereof (including the effect of
such revaluation on the Borrower's fin.ancial statements) reviewed
by the said auditors; (iii) furnish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited, (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested and (C) the review by said
auditors of the results of the said revaluation of the Borrower's
gross fixed assets in operation; and (iv) furnish to the Bank such
other information concerning (A) the accounts and financial
statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof and (B) the
revaluation and review of assets mentioned above, as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not create, incur, assume or
suffer to exist any lien upon any of its properties or assets,
whether now owned or hereafter acquired, unless such lien shall
rank after the lien constituted by the Indenture; provided,
however, that the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not
apply to:
(a) the mortgage and charge of the Indenture in respect
of the present and future issues of debenture stock or bonds;


﻿-7-
(b) any lien subsisting at the date of this Agreement
disclosed to the Bank;
(c) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property;
(d) any lien arising in the ordinary courne of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred; and
(e) any lien permitted in the Indenture on the date of
this Agreement securing an amount not exceeding fifty thousand
Pounds Sterling (L50,000) in the aggregate at any one time
outstanding.
Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, all necessary
action (including the adjustment of its electricity rates) to
provide revenues sufficient to produce on the Borrower's net fixed
assets in operation, as revalued in accordance with Section 5.05
of this Agreement as from fiscal year 1978 through fiscal year
1980, an annual rate of return of not less than 8% and thereafter
an annual rate of return of not less than 8.5%.
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) above:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated by
relating the Borrower's net income from operations
for that fiscal year to the average of the value of
its net fixed assets in operation at the beginning
and at the end of that year;
(ii) the term "net income from operations" means gross
operating revenues from the provision of electric
power, less all operating, administrative and
overhead expenses including adequate maintenance,
straight line depreciation computed in accordance
with the Licence and taxes (if any) other than
taxes on income but without deduction of interest
and other charges on debt;
(iii) the term "net fixed assets in operation" means
gross fixed assets in operation as revalued from
time to time in accordance with methods of


﻿-8-
valuation acceptable to the Bank, less accumulated
depreciation.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall in accordance with methods
of valuation acceptable to the Bank (i) revalue by the Effective
Date its gross fixed assets in operation on December 31, 1976
and (ii) thereafter revalue annually or at such other times
as the Bank and the Borrower determine its gross fixed assets in
operation.
Section 5.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt unless the Borrower's net
revenue for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such
incurrence or for any later twelve month period ending before the
date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be not
less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirement for any
succeeding fiscal year on all the Borrower's debt, including
the debt to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means all debt, including debt
assumed or guaranteed by the Borrower except debt
incurred in the ordinary course of business and
maturing by its terms on demand or less than one
year after its incurrence;
(ii) the term    "incur" with reference to any debt
includes any modification of the terms of payment
of such debt; and debt shall be deemed to have been
incurred on the date the loan or, as the case may
be, the guarantee agreement providing for such debt
is entered into;
(iii) the term "net revenue" means gross operating
revenue, adjusted to take account of rates for the
sale of electricity in effect at the time of
incurrence of debt even though they were not in
effect during the entire fiscal year or twelve
month period to which such revenue relates, less
all operating and administrative expenses, includ-
ing adequate maintenance and taxes (if any) other
than taxes on income but before provision for
depreciation, other non-cash provisions and debt
service requirements;


﻿-9-
(iv) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including
sinking fund payments, if any) interest and other
charges on debt of the Borrower; and
(v) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the
currency of the Guarantor debt payable in another
currency such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the rate of exchange at which such other cur-
rency is obtainable by the Borrower, at the time
such valuation is made, for the purposes of servic-
ing such debt, or, if such other currency is not so
obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will
reasonably be determined by the Bank.
Section 5.07. The Borrower shall not at any time incur any
overdraft or any debt maturing by its terms on demand or for a
period of less than one year if the total sum of any overdrafts
and such debts of the Borrower at the date of such incurrence
would exceed one-sixth of the Borrower's cash operating expenses
during the period of twelve months immediately preceding such
debt.
Section 5.08. The Borrower shall not: (i) undertake any major
works not included in the expansion program agreed by the Borrower
and the Bank; or (ii) acquire any new assets not included in the
said program, unless the Bank shall have been furnished with evi-
dence satisfactory to the Bank showing: (A) that the undertaking
of such major works or acquisition of such new assets is tech-
nically and economically justified; and (B) that the Borrower has
a sound financial plan for the undertaking of such major works or
the acquisition of such new assets. For the purposes of this
Section the term "major works" or "new assets" shall mean any
works or new fixed assets including expenditures exceeding the
equivalent of two per cent of the value of the Borrower's gross
fixed assets in operation as revalued in accordance with Section
5.05 of this Agreement.
Section 5.09. (a) The Borrower shall continue to strengthen
its billing and collection procedures and shall no later than
September 30, 1978 complete a study of the feasibility of billing
all customers on a monthly basis and shall discuss the results of
such a study with the Bank no later than December 31, 1978 and,
if found feasible, carry out a program to establish monthly
billings for some or all of its customers.


﻿- 10 -
(b) The Borrower shall reduce its outstanding accounts
receivable to such levels as the Borrower and the Bank shall
agree.
Section 5.10. The Borrower shall: (i) no later than June 30,
1978 but in any event before proceeding with the final designs and
preparation of bidding documents for the Duncans-Bellevue 138 kV
transmission line complete its studies of the least cost alterna-
tive between Tredegar-Bellevue and Duncans-Bellevue transmission
lines; (ii) furnish the results of the said studies to the Bank
for its review and comments; and (iii) construct the transmission
line resulting in the least cost alternative.
ARTICLE VI
Debenture Stock
Section 6.01. (a) The Borrower shall as soon as practicable
but in any event not later than three months after the Effective
Date execute, deliver and register a supplemental indenture (the
Fifteenth Supplemental Indenture), in form and substance satisfac-
tory to the Bank: (i) providing for the issue, authentication and
delivery of Debenture Stock ranking pari passu with the debenture
stock issued under the Indenture; and (ii) providing by way of
security for the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan:
(A) a first mortgage upon all the properties of the
Borrower expressed in the Indenture to be speci-
fically mortgaged premises thereunder or intended
so to be; and
(B) a first floating charge upon all the property and
assets expressed in the Indenture to be charged or
intended so to be by the first floating charge
created thereby.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an opinion or
opinions satisfactory to the Bank of legal counsel acceptable to
the Bank showing that the Fifteenth Supplemental Indenture has
been validly and effectively executed, delivered and registered,
and has created valid and effective mortgages, charges and prior-
ities in accordance with its terms.
(c) Except as the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Bank
shall not sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of the Debenture


﻿- 11 -
Stock other than for the purpose of protecting its interests, in
the event of a default or a threat thereof, in the payment of
principal, interest or any other charge required under the Loan
Agreement and in such event the Bank shall be subject to no
limitation of whatsoever kind or nature which may attempt to
restrict the form or method of disposition of the Debenture Stock
issued to it.
(d) Insofar as, and to the extent, that the obligation for
the repayment of principal on any Debenture Stock shall have been
so discharged, the Bank shall surrender to the Borrower such
Debenture Stock for cancellation.
Section 6.02. Subject to the exemptions conferred by Sections
3.04 and 3.05 of the Guarantee Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
or cause to be paid all taxes, if any, imposed under the laws of
the Guarantor or laws in effect in its territories on or in
connection with the execution, issue, delivery or registration of
the Fifteenth Supplemental Indenture and the Debenture Stock or
the payment of principal, interest and other charges thereunder;
provided, however, that the provisions of this Section shall not
apply to taxation of payments under any Debenture Stock to a
holder thereof other than the Bank when such Debenture Stock is
beneficially owned by an individual or corporate resident of the
Guarantor.
Section 6.03. The Borrower shall pay or cause to be paid all
taxes, if any, imposed under the laws of the country or countries
in whose currency the Debenture Stock is payable or laws in effect
in the territories of such country or countries on or in con-
nection with the execution, issue, delivery or registration of the
Indenture, the Fifteenth Supplemental Indenture or the Debenture
Stock.
Section 6.04. Except with the prior approval of the Bank,
the Borrower shall not redeem or prepay prior to the maturity
thereof any notes, bonds or debenture stock issued by it otherwise
than: (i) upon a refunding thereof by the issuance of notes, bonds
or debenture stock of the same or later maturity or maturities; or
(ii) for the purpose from time to time of meeting annual sinking
fund requirements near falling due.
Section 6.05. The Borrower shall duly perform all covenants,
agreements and obligations to be performed by it under the Inden-
ture and the Licence.


﻿- 12 -
Section 6.06. Except with the approval of the Bank, the
Borrower shall not consent to any action taken at any meeting of
bond or debenture stock holders which would or might change the
terms of the Indenture or of the Debenture Stock.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 7.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The Memorandum and Articles of Association of the
Borrower as at the date of this Agreement shall have been amended
so as to affect adversely and materially the management and
operations and financial condition of the Borrower;
(b) The Guarantor shall have enacted legislation which
materially and adversely affects the management and operations and
financial condition of the Borrower;
(c) A subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial condition or
the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel or the
carrying out of the Project;
(d) The Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Borrower or for the suspension of its operations;
(e) The Licence shall have been amended, abrogated, waived,
assigned, suspended or revoked without the prior consent of the
Bank; and
(f) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor, or


﻿- 13 -
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes that: (A) such
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematur-
ing is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
to perform any of its obligations under such
agreement, and (B) adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower from other sources
on terms and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to para-
graph (h) thereof: the events specified in paragraphs (a), (b)
and (c) of Section 7.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, revaluation of the Borrower's assets as of December 31,
1976 in accordance with methods of valuation acceptable to the
Bank.
Section 8.02. The date June 5, 1978, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Addresses
Section 9.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 14 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Jamaica Public Service Company, Limited
6, Knutsford Boulevard,
P.O. Box 54
Kingston, Jamaica
Cable address:                     Telex:
JAMSERVICE                         2180
Kingston
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S.M.L. van der Meer
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
JAMAICA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY, LIMITED
By /s/ Marshall Hall
Authorized Representative


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentge of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Transmission lines           5,100,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(2) Substations                  4,600,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(3) Distribution program         4,300,000         100% of foreign
expenditures for
items directly
imported and
100% of the ex-
factory price
for domestically
manufactured
items
(4) Consultants' services        1,300,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(5) Personnel training             600,000         100% of foreign
program                                      expenditures
(6) Unallocated                  4,100,000
TOTAL       20,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other


﻿- 16 -
than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $200,000,
may be made in respect of consultants' services under Category (4)
on account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after August 31, 1977.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph I above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project forms a part of the Borrower's 1978 to 1982
construction program and consists of the following:
(A) construction of the following transmission lines:
(i) about 40 miles of 138 kV transmission line between
Duncans and Bogue;
(ii) about 43 miles of 138 kV transmission line between
Duncans and Bellevue or about 25 miles of 138 kV
transmission line between Tredegar and Bellevue,
whichever is the least cost alternative;
(iii) about 12 miles of 69 kV transmission line between
Greenwich Road and Cane River;
(iv) about 22 miles of 69 kV transmission line between
Oracabessa and Annotto Bay; and
(v) about 24 miles of 69 kV transmission line between
Annotto Bay and Port Antonio.
(B) (1) Expansion of substations at Cane River, Bogue
and Duncans (or Tredegar) to accommodate the
transmission lines proposed under Part A above.
(2) Provision of adequate capacity for expected load
growth at Kingston through installation of 90 NVA
of 69-24 kV transformer capacity at Hunts Bay.
(3) Provision of adequate capacity for expected load
growth through the installation of:
(i) 25 MVA, 138-69 kV at Bogue and Bellevue;
(ii) 12.5 MVA, 69-24kV at Parnassus, Duhaney,
Annotto Bay, Bogue, Duncans, Bellevue and Spur
Tree; and
(iii) 6.25 MVA, 69-24 kV at Port Antonio.


﻿- 18 -
(C) The carrying out of about two years of the Borrower's
distribution program involving the installation of:
(i) 45 MVA of distribution transformers, 5 to 50 kVA
each;
(ii) 300 circuit-miles of 24 and 12 kV lines and 220/110
volt lines;
(iii) 20,000 KWh meters; and
(iv) 140 MVAR of capacitors.
(D) (1) Strengthening of the Borrower's operating and
maintenance practices in transmission and distri-
bution, utilizing about 80 man-months of consul-
tants' services.
(2) Strengthening of the Borrower's operating and
maintenance practices in generating stations,
utilizing about 70 man-months of consultants'
services.
(3) Studies of the Borrower's tariff structure,
uLilizing about 10 man-months of consultants'
services.
(4) Design and preparation of contract documents and
supervision of construction of 138 kV lines and
substations included in the Project, utilizing
about 60 man-months of consultants' services.
(E) Training of Borrower's personnel.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1982.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 1982
through   August 15, 1994                    770,000
On February 15, 1995                              750,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 20 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.30%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              2.65%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                              4.80%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen years
before maturity                              6.55%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                              7.45%


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding under the Project, the Borrower shall
prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to
the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case v:ay be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Specialized equipment for substations not exceeding in the
aggregate the equivalent of $75,000 shall be purchased directly
from the manufacturers under contracts satisfactory to the Bank.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall


﻿- 22 -
Ne axcluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Jamaica may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Jamaica if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Jamaica equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Jamaica.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 23 -
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the pro-
cedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in
said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of
prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifi-
cations and of the reasons for -he exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank
for its comments before the applicants are notified of the
Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions
to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report, on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines


﻿- 24 -
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Accc .nt in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


