Report No. PIC4439
Project Name                        Colombia-El Vino-Pto. Salgar Toll...
Road Project
Region                              Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                              Highways
Project ID                          COPA39082
Borrower                            Instituto Nacional de Vias (INVIAS)
Guarantor                           Republic of Colombia
Implementing Agency                 Instituto Nacional de Vias (INVIAS)
Av. El Dorado - CAN
Bogota, Colombia
Contact: Mr. Juan Manuel Leano
(Project Coordinator)
Phone No.
Fax.:
Date initial PID prepared           August 21, 1996
Project Appraisal Date              end April 1997
Projected Board Date                September 1997
Background. In the past five years the Colombian transport sector has
witnessed major changes with regard to its institutional structure and
the role of the private sector in the construction and operation of
major transport infrastructure facilities. These changes have brought
about substantial reductions in transport costs for Colombia's
externally traded goods and commerce. Nevertheless, critical weaknesses
in the transportation system, particularly in road infrastructure (which
serves more than 90% of freight transport excluding pipelines),
undermine the competitiveness of the Colombian economy and introduce
higher than normal levels of transport costs in all phases of the
economy.
The main problem of Colombia's road system is the poor operating
conditions of the highways that serve the largest consumption and
production centers located on rugged mountain ranges (a factor that
notably add to the cost of expanding and modernizing the road
infrastructure). Years of chronic deficit in public funding, untimely
implementation of investments as a result of mismanagement, and poor
quality of maintenance of primary highways have compounded those
conditions.
The main tenets of Government's strategy to overcome these constraints
have been to: (1) strengthen sector management by splitting
responsibility for planning and policy making from execution, and
establishing a road agency --INVIAS-- to manage a well-defined network
of export/import corridors and trunk roads; (3) decentralize the
provision and management of road infrastructure by passing on to
departments and local governments responsibility over secondary and
tertiary roads; (4) increase the level of investments from less than 1%



of GDP before 1994 to more than 2.09 for 1995-1998 to clear the existing
road infrastructure backlog and accommodate the transport system to
present needs; (5) reformulate the system of road user charges to
eliminate distortions in coverage among different vehicle classes and
across the national, departmental and municipal levels of
administration; and (6) expand the role of the private sector by
contracting out all road operations and bringing the private sector to
finance and manage road projects under long-term concessions.
Government has committed itself to an ambitious program of private
sector participation in road infrastructure. As presently defined, the
road concession program calls for a total private investment for the
period 1995-1998 of about US$1.2 billion. Since 1994, 12 concession
contracts have been awarded for rehabilitation of about 1,080 km and
construction of about 0 km. The final targets, including concessions to
be granted beyond 1998, aim at modernizing about 4,900 km or about 30t
of the national highway system entrusted to INVIAS. The private sector
has responded with interest, though the program targets have been
recently downsized to reflect the progress made to date in procuring the
projects and more realistic assumptions with regard to engineering the
projects and mobilizing the financing needed to support them.
As opposed to other infrastructure sectors, most of the financing for
the road projects in Colombia has come from local banks, with conditions
in terms of maturities and interest rates that are costly and unsecure
for developing projects. These arrangements were made possible by the
fact that the financing requirements have been relatively modest in
size. In contrast, projects of the size of El Vino-Pto. Salgar Toll
Road will have to rely on foreign capital markets to raise the needed
amounts and maturities of debt financing.
Project Objectives. The overall purpose of the project is to improve
transport conditions along a strategic road corridor linking Bogot with
MedellAn and the ports on the north coast through an effective and
sustainable private-public partnership. The specific objectives are to:
(a) reduce transport costs by building key links and upgrading existing
sections along the highway corridor; (b) attract a competent private
project company to mobilize equity and debt through more secure and
favorable financing structures to finance road improvements and manage
operations; and (c) strengthen INVIAS' capacity to prepare future road
concession projects and put into effect key policies for sustainable
development of road corridors. Selected indicators of success include:
By year 2002 ...
vehicle operating costs on the upgraded corridor reduced by
40t for cars and buses and by 65t for trucks from those in
1996;
travel time between Bogot and Pto. Salgar reduced to 2.5 hours for
cars and buses from an average of 4 hours in 1996;
the level of service (expressed by the volume/capacity ratio)
on existing road from Villeta to La Dorada increased as a
result of deviating truck traffic onto the new highway;
By year 2007 ...
incidence of injuries and fatalities on the corridor reduced
- 2 -



(expressed by average rate per million vehicle kilometers);
project established a track record of good performance,
allowing similar projects to tap financing on international
scale without need of a Bank guarantee.
Government exposure to minimum revenue contingent obligations
released after seven years of operation (as opposed to
previous road concessions in which it remains throughout the
concession period);
social disturbances and misallocation of traffic along the corridor
avoided as a result of setting toll rates that are commensurate
with user's willingness to pay and the increased level of service
along the corridor;
about 2,000 Ha. of endangered Subandean forest in the region
preserved through a compensation reserve established through the
project;
a competent private operator continues effectively operating
the corridor, providing road users with modern security and
emergency services under a long-term concession.
Project Description. As currently envisaged, the project will comprise
operating about 560 km of one of the most strategic road corridors in
Colombia, improving transport conditions between Bogot and Medellin
and, via the Troncal del Magdalena, the Atlantic ports. The project
entails (1) building about 74 km of a high-standard two-lane highway
between Tobiagrande and Pto. Salgar, (2) improving critical sections of
about xxx km of existing highways between El Vino-Tobiagrande and La
Dorada-San Alberto, (3) maintaining the existing alternative route
between Tobiagrande and La Dorada, and (4) collecting tolls and
providing modern safety and emergency services along the 560 km corridor
throughout a long-term concession.
INVIAS will select through a competitive process the private project
company that will undertake and partially finance the project. Laws 80
(Public Procurement Law) and 105 (Transport Law), both of 1995, form
together the legal basis for the concession.   The concession grants the
selected project company the right to operate and collect tolls on the
project for a specified period of time, in return of undertaking the
road works mentioned above and fulfilling minimum service and
performance standards as defined in the Concession Agreement (CA).
The project has high cost but high revenue growth, with the early years
being the most financially precarious.   Government will make an up-front
capital contribution for the project to be capable of defraying
construction costs and covering debt service and a reasonable return on
equity based on (1) expected cash flows during a concession period (say
20 years) that is shorter than the economic life of the project assets,
and (2) reasonable toll rates that would avoid excessive traffic
diversions and erode the benefits to be accrued to the transportation
system as a result of building the project. The proposed public-private
partnership is sought as the best means to channel additional resources
to supply the necessary services in a shorter time, and to increase the
efficiency in construction and operation of the project. Operating the
project through a concession will also allow putting in place modern
security and emergency services which in this case are deemed essential
for the safe operation of the various tunnels considered under the
- 3 -



project. The project composition and costs is as follows:
Component                                     US$million
Turnkey contract for road construction and improvements       396
Eligible contingencies in tunnel construction                 40
Operation of the highway corridor (including equipment
for toll collection and safety services)                     15
Stand-by Liquidity Facility                                   60
Project development and supervision, and other financial
consultancies; interest during construction                  31
Total                                         542
Project Financing. The project would be funded jointly by Government
and the private sector. The proposed Bank instruments were chosen to
provide credit enhancement to the project. They include a stand-by loan
to finance eligible contingencies in tunnel construction, and support a
liquidity facility for the revenue support structure that will be
available during the first years of operation of the concession, and a
partial risk guarantee to protect lenders against debt service default
due to lack of compliance by GOC with its payment obligations as defined
in the CA. The obligations covered under the guarantee will include
non-insurable force majeure or other calamities, and sovereign risks
(ie., expropriation, termination, toll adjustments, convertibility).
Subject to caps to be specified in the bidding documents, the amount of
the government contribution and the size and availability period of the
revenue support structure will be determined by bidders. The use of the
Bank guarantee will also be optional and it will be available for
amortizing loans and capital markets instruments with maturities of 10
years or longer. The financing during construction is estimated as
follows:
Source                                        US$million
Government capital contribution                               235
Private sector (equity and debt)/1                            147
Revenue from existing tolls during construction               60
IBRD stand-by loans for (1) contingencies in tunnel
construction, and (2) liquidity facility                     100
Total                                         542
1/ At the option of bidders, up to US$80 million of debt may be covered
under the Bank partial risk guarantee
Project Implementation. INVIAS will have responsibility for (1)
defining the project standards and acquiring the right-of-way for
project execution, (2) granting the concession to the selected
concessionaire, (3) channeling the government's capital contribution to
the project and fulfilling its obligations under the CA, (3) auditing
through designated experts the concessionaire's compliance with the
performance standards set in the CA, (4) authorizing tariff adjustments
and enforcing traffic regulations throughout the concession period , and
(5) maintaining in good condition the roads connecting with the project
corridor.
The special purpose private Project Company, will be responsible
-4 -



throughout the duration of the concession for (1) mobilizing the funds
(equity and debt) and resources needed to undertake the project, (2)
setting a Trustee acceptable to INVIAS to administer project funds,
expenditures and operation revenues, (3) refining the engineering
designs and undertaking the highway improvements defined in the CA, (4)
operating the facility in compliance with minimum service and
performance standards set in the CA, (5) collecting tolls on the
project, and (6) returning the facility to INVIAS upon completing the
concession period (or reaching the maximum return requested at the
bidding stage, whichever is earlier).
Other governmental agencies involved are (1) the Ministry of the
Environment (MOE), responsible for granting the environmental license
for the project, and (2) the Corporacion AutAnoma Regional (CAR),
responsible for the permits (location of campsites, protection of water
sources and use of quarries).
Project Sustainability. The sustainability of the project benefits
derives from (1) the ability of the concessionaire to complete the
project and comply with the long-term performance standards set in the
CA, and (2) the acceptance of the proposed toll rates by road users.
Choosing a competent project sponsor, with sufficient qualifications as
an operator of long-term concessions minimizes this risk. The initial
toll rates will be fixed by INVIAS taking into account the user's
willingness to pay and possible impact on traffic diversions.
Government contribution is intended to make the project financially
viable with affordable toll rates. In turn, the project must generate
enough revenues to enable the concessionaire service the debt and cover
operation and maintenance expenditures. A critical factor is to
mobilize long-term debt to avoid excessive exposure during the first
five to seven years of operation of the concession.
Lessons learned from past operations in the Country. Both, the
project's design and the choice of Bank instruments build on the
experience available internationally and, in particular, the results
obtained so far in Colombia with the on-going plan for infrastructure
development through private sector participation. Most of the
implementation issues experienced with the road concession program so
far can be addressed emphasizing quality-at-entry in project
preparation, by (1) retaining financial advisors with international
experience to structure the project, prepare the legal documentation and
advise INVIAS throughout the procurement process, (2) re-designing the
bidding process to attract high quality international investors
(including a well-targeted promotion campaign and a simpler bid
evaluation criteria to prompt bidders' attention on the few parameters
upon which strong competition is critical for achieving long-term
efficiency), (3) making available to prospective bidders detailed
engineering data but allowing them the time needed to quote their own
estimates, (4) using state-of-the-art technology to produce traffic
forecasts, and (5) addressing in advance environmental and social issues
that may arise from the proposed route location, the toll rate
structure, and location of toll collection facilities.
Financial sustainability of a BOT project of the size of the El Vino-
Pto. Salgar project requires mobilizing more secure and favorable
- 5 -



financing structures than those prevailing in current road concessions
in Colombia. This necessitates ensuring access to international markets
by (1) improving the allocation of risks among the parties in the
current concession contracts (in particular termination clauses); (2)
redefining government support through fewer obligations but directly
aimed at helping the concessionaire meet is debtor obligations,
particularly at the beginning of the concession; (3) giving liquidity to
these obligations through clear and credible compensation mechanisms;
and (4) minimizing the impact of the foreign exchange risk (in view
that all project revenues are in local currency).
Poverty Category. Not applicable.
Environmental Aspects. The project has been rated 'A' since entails new
road construction through sensitive areas: (1) some patches of primary
Andean forest on steep hillsides affected, (2) areas of unstable
geological formations, which may accelerate erosions, (3) relocation of
about 20 families dispersed along the new road alignment, and (4) some
areas of suspected archaeological importance. The Ministry of the
Environment issued the environmental license for the project in 1994.
Subsequent changes in about 40t of the initial road alignment during
project preparation have further reduced potential environmental impacts
(most rural communities have been avoided, the need for relocation of
families has been lowered, and unstable areas either have been avoided
or will be crossed by tunnels). The selection of the route location was
subject to intense consultation with the affected communities. The
updated EA report will be presented to local communities, NGOs and
municipalities. Relocation plans will be consulted with affected
population.
Program Objective Category. EA
Contact Point:            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending November 22, 1996.
- 6 -



