Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17986
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$137.1 MILLION
TO
COLOMBIA
FORA
TOLL ROAD CONCESSION PROJECT
JUNE 11 1998
Finance, Private Sector, and hIfrastructure (LCSFP)
Country Management Unit for Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela (LCC4C)
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 16, 1998)
Currency Unit = Colombian Peso (Col$)
Col$= US$0.00074
US$1 = Col$1360
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPPI                                   Committee for Private Participation in Infrastructure
CC                                     Concession Contract between INVIAS and the Project Company
CONFIS                                 National Council for Fiscal Policy
CONPES                                 National Council for Economic and Social Policy
DNP                                    National Department of Planning
ERR                                    Economic Rate of Return
GOC                                    Government of Colombia
FRR                                    Financial Rate of Return
FVN                                    National Highway Fund (eliminated by Decree of December 1992)
IDB                                    Inter-American Development Bank
INVIAS                                 National Institute of Highways (established by Decree of December 1992)
MOPT                                   Ministry of Public Works and Transport (eliminated by Decree of December 1992)
MOT                                    Ministry of Transport (established by Decree of December 1992)
MOE                                    Ministry of the Environment (since December 1993)
PRG                                    IBRD's Partial Risk Guarantee
SENA                                   National Apprenticeship Service Agency (Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje)
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager/Director: Andres Solirnano
Sector Manager/Director: Danny Leipziger
Task Tearn Leader/Task Manager: Jose Luis Irigoyen



Colombia
Toll Road Concession Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                                                                              Page No.
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators .....................................                         ...................2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project. ............................................................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ............................................................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .3
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components ........................................................6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ......................................                       ...................7
3. Benefits and target population 7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .........................................................8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection  ..........................                        .............................. 11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies  ....................                            ................. 13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ......................................................... 13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ........................................................                                   14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ........................................................ 15
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic .......................................................                                                                           15
2. Financial .......................................................                                                                           15
3. Technical.. 17
4. histitutional.18
5. Social .......................................................                                                                              18
6. Environmental assessment .......................................................                                                            19
7. Participatory approach .......................................................                                                             20
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability ....................................................... 20
2. Critical risks .......................................................                                                                     21
3. Possible controversial aspects .......................................................                                                     22
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions ....................................................... 23
2. Other .......................................................                                                                               23



-iv-
H. Readiness for Implementation ...............................................                                 25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .............................................. 26
Annexes
Annex 1. Project Design Summary .............................................. 27
Annex 2. Detailed Project Description ..............................................                            29
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs .............................................. 37
Annex 4. Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary .............................................. 39
Annex 5. Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities ..............        ................................ 53
Annex 6. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ..............................................               55
Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ..............................................             55
Table B. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ...............        ............................... 56
Table C. Allocation of Loan Proceeds .............................................. 56
Annex 7. Project Processing Budget and Schedule ..............................................                  57
Annex 8. Documents in Project File .............................................. 58
Annex 9. Statement of Loans and Credits ..............................................                          60
Annex 10. Country at a Glance .............................................. 62
Annek 11. Environmental Assessment Summary ................................ :    64
Map No. 28785



Page 1
Colombia
Toll Road Concession Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Country Department 4 (LCC4C)
Date: June 11, 1998                               Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Jos6 Luis Irigoyen
Country Manager/Director. Andres Solimano         Sector Manager/Director: Danny Leipziger
Project ID: CO-PE-39082  Sector: Transportation   Program Objective Category: Economic Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Program of Targeted Intervention:   f I Yes  [/] No
Project Financing Data               [/] Loan        [H  Credit       [I Guarantee      [] Other
Amount:                  US$137.1 million
Proposed terms:                         [ ] Multicurrency       [a/] Single currency, specify
Standard Variable  [/] Fixed           [ ] LIBOR-
based
Grace period and
Years to matunty: Standard amortization terms, grace period and interest rate for fixed-rate U.S. dollar
single currency loans with an expected disbursement period of 0-3 years.
Commitment fee: Standard
Service charge: 0%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                  Local    Foreign    Total
Private Project Sponsors (equity and debt committed to initial investment)  212.7  182.4    395.1
IBRD loan to the Republic of Colombia for government capital contribution  75.4   61.7     137.1
Net revenue generation from operation of roads under Project           22.1       18.0     40.1
Total:   310.2        262.1   572.3
Borrower                 Republic of Colombia
Responsible agency(ies)   INVIAS, Colombia's National Institute of Roads
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M):   1998      1999        2000      2001       2002
Annual:      -     77.1        60.0         -
Cumulative:     -      77,1      137.1       137.1     137.1
Project implementation period: "  Expected effectiveness date        Expected loan closing date:1'
4 years                     September 30, 1998                 June 30, 2000
ISee Implementation Period on page 9.



Page 2                                                    A
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
* Overall Objective. The overall purpose of the project is to improve transport conditions along a
strategic road corridor linking BogotA with Medellin and the ports on the north coast through an
effective and sustainable private-public partnership.
*  Specific Objectives. The project specific objectives are to: (a) reduce transport costs and improve the
level of service by building and upgrading key sections along the highway corridor; (b) attract and
maintain adequate private services to mobilize equity and debt through more favorable financing
structures than those attained in previous road concessions in Colombia, to finance road improvements
and manage operations; and (c) strengthen INVIAS' capacity to prepare future road concession
projects and put into effect key policies for sustainable development of highway corridors.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 17107-CO   Date of latest CAS discussion: November 6, 1997
* The project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy dated October 15, 1997, which
supports the objectives of (i) promoting peace and development, (ii) promoting rural development, (iii)
developing human capital, (iv) attaining public sector responsiveness and efficiency, (v) improving
infrastructure services, and (vi) ensuring sustainable development. A key element of the government's
strategy to improve the quantity and quality of infrastructure has been to encourage and facilitate
private sector participation. This policy aims at increasing efficiency in project execution, mobilizing
additional resources, reducing the risks assumed by the public sector, obtaining the benefits of
competition, and reallocating public resources into the social sectors. Although Colombia enjoys an
important advantage over its neighbors in accessing international capital due to its investment grade
credit rating, the results so fhr have been a limited number of projects which could attract private
investments.
* The proposed project is part of the base-case lending program for FY98. The proposed project
addresses one of the three areas highlighted in the CAS regarding private sector infrastructure deals:
where government plays a key role in mitigating risks, it should assume those risks that can not be
covered by the private sector, in a way that minimizes the potential distortions and at a reasonable cost.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
*  Road Sector Issues. In the past five years the Colombian transport sector has witnessed major changes
with regard to its institutional structure and the role of the private sector in the construction and
operation of major transport infrastructure facilities. These changes have brought about substantial
reductions in transport costs for Colombia's externally traded goods and commerce. Nevertheless,
critical weaknesses in the transportation system, particularly in road infrastructure (which serves more
than 90% of freight transport, excluding pipelines) undermine the competitiveness of the Colombian
economy and introduce higher than nonnal transport costs in all phases of the economy. A recent
analysis conducted by DNP estimates that in the 30-year period between 1960-1993, the low levels of
investment in infrastructure (below 1% of the GDP in the case of transport), resulted in additional costs
to the economy of about 5.3% of the GDP (about 2.7% if only the road sub-sector is counted).
* The main problem of Colombia's road system is the poor operating condition of the highways that
serve the largest consumption and production centers located on rugged mountain ranges (a factor that



Page 3
notably adds to the cost of expanding and modernizing the road infrastructure). Years of chronic
deficit in public funding, untimely implementation of investments as a result of mismanagement, and
poor quality of maintenance of primary highways have compounded those conditions.
*  Government Strategy. The main tenets of the Government's strategy to overcome these constraints
have been to: (i) strengthen sector management by splitting responsibility for planning and policy
making from execution, and establishing a road agency, INVIAS, to manage a well-defined network of
export/import corridors and trunk roads; (ii) decentralize the provision and management of road
infrastructure passing on to departments and local governments responsibility over secondary and
tertiary roads; (iii) increase the level of investments from the historical average of about 0.7% of GDP
before 1994 to about 2.6% for 1995-1998, to clear the existing road investment backlog and
accommodate the transport system to present needs; (iv) revise the system of road user charges to
eliminate distortions in contributions by different vehicle classes and allocations to the national,
departmental and municipal levels of administration; and (v) expand the role of the private sector by
contracting out all road operations under INVIAS and bringing the private sector to finance and
manage road projects under long-term concessions.
*  Government has committed itself to an ambitious program of private sector participation in road
infrastructure. As presently defined, the road concession program calls for a total private investment
for the period 1995-1998 of about US$1.2 billion. Since 1994, 12 concession contracts have been
awarded for rehabilitation of about 1,080 km and construction of about 250 km. The final targets,
including concessions to be granted beyond 1998, aim at modernizing about 4,900 km of highways, or
about 30% of the national network entrusted to INVIAS. The private sector has responded with
interest, though the original program targets were downsized to reflect the progress made to date in
procuring the projects and more realistic assumptions with regard to engineering projects and
mobilizing the financing needed to support them.
*  Bank Strategy. The proposed project builds on the conclusions of the sector work performed by the
Bank between 1994-95. This work pointed out the need to further the institutional reform of the road
sector, the main stumbling block to enhanced efficiency, and the rehabilitation and expansion of critical
national road links. The main challenges highlighted in the report are both financial and institutional:
(a) although road users pay substantial amounts of user charges and taxes, the system of reallocating
these funds through the budgetary process has left substantial funding gaps. The manner of ensuring
adequate flow of funds to the roads sector is one priority addressed by the Third National Roads Sector
Project; and (b) substantial reform of institutional structures is needed to ensure that adequate funding
is also matched by greater managerial autonomy and accountability and road management is organized
along commercial lines to ensure greater efficiency and effectiveness in service delivery.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
* Current Barriers for Private Financing of Toll Roads. The proposed project would address
implementation and financing issues that arose in the execution of the road concession program in
Colombia, which pose a challenge for the sustainability and expansion of the program. As opposed to
other infrastructure sectors, most of the financing for the privately-funded road projects in Colombia
has come from local banks, with maturities and interest rates that are costly and unsecure for
undertaking road projects. These arrangements were made possible by the fact that the financing
requirements have been relatively modest in size. In contrast, projects the size of El Vino-San Alberto
will have to rely on both local and foreign capital markets to obtain the needed amounts and maturities
of debt financing. The proposed public-private partnership will allow INVIAS to expand the
concession program to larger projects, not fully financeable by the private sector under the prevailing
terms.



Page 4
* Toll road projects generally pose more risks to private investors than other infrastructure projects. The
predictability of expected traffic is subject to regional development growth and competition from
alternative routes, which may significantly alter the traffic patterns on the road network. The
willingness of users to pay tolls is largely a function of the wealth of potential users, the value assigned
to time savings and other toil road benefits, and the cost of competing routes. These are critical factors
in demonstrating revenue streams of sufficient magnitude and predictability to obtain financing,
especially for greenfield and intercity roads. Typically, this uncertainty is mitigated in power projects
through take-or-pay arrangements which are very similar to the minimum traffic/revenue undertakings
used in most of greenfield road projects. Furthermore, demand risk in greenfield projects is
compounded by the fact that the investments needed are relatively large to the size of the market,
indivisible and tied to a particular location (service to distant markets is not possible), constraining the
flexibility of private project sponsors to adapt to low demand scenarios. Without appropriate levels of
Government support (in the form of contributions in cash or kind, minimum revenue and other risk-
sharing undertakings), commercial lenders are reluctant to consider financing new road projects,
irrespective of the project's commercial fundamentals, political environment, or macro conditions.
While the specific nature and need of these undertakings may vary from project to project (even within
the road sector), their main purpose is to improve the financial viability of the project by allocating
certain risks partially or entirely to government, in line with the principles of diversifying risks and
allocating them to the party that is in better relative position to manage them.
* Addressing Government Support and RiskAllocation Issues through competitive bidding. The
proposed project would remove those barriers by providing the level of government support needed
under well-structured incentives to minimize government exposure, and by improving risk allocation to
the parties in line with the principles presented above. This improved allocation of risks builds on the
experience gained from a review of other BOT road projects in Colombia and elsewhere (see Table 1 to
Annex 2). Private investors have, however, different attitudes towards country risk, project risks, and
revenue potential associated with a project in a particular setting. Thus, the actual level of government
support needed for the project was subject to market testing through competitive bidding. Key
elements of the support offered during the bidding process, and the rationale for offering them, are
described below:
a) Government up-front capital contribution. The amount of government capital contribution
required would be decided through competitive bidding, so as to make the project sufficiently
attractive to private investors and compensate them for the externalities associated with the project.
GOC will partially finance the construction costs through a cash contribution, reimbursed in kind
when the facility is returned to Government at the end of the concession term or as soon as
cumulative project revenues reach the revenue target set in the concessionaire's bid, whichever is
earlier. Without this initial contribution, the project would be unfinanceable by the private sector'.
The experience gained in several international road concessions demonstrates that it is good policy
to base project revenues on affordable toll rates. The toll rates determined by GOC exceed short-
run marginal pricing but are deemed affordable to users and adequate to avoid excessive traffic
diversion and consequent erosion of benefits accrued to the transportation system as a result of
building the project. iNVIAS has also included in the concession the operation of an existing
contiguous tolled road section to allow economies of scale in project operation, reduce its financial
support, and enhance project revenues. This road opened to traffic in 1995 and will generate net
revenues from the very beginning of the concession;
The extnalities associated with the project lead to positive net social benefits while private net benefits are negative
without a govermnent capital contribution to the project. Such contribution is necessary for the project to be capable of
defraying high construction costs, covering debt service, and providing a reasonable return on equity based on (i) expected
cash flows during a concession period (about 24 years) that is shorter than the economic life of project assets, and (ii)
affordable toll rates that would avoid inefficient traffic diversions and erode the benefits accrued to the transportation
system. As noted in Section 13, GOC's contribution is commensurate with what the users of the 570-km road network will
contribute in road user charges aside from tolls in net present value terms during the planned concession period.



Page 5
b) GovernmentMinimum Revenue Support. Even with affordable toll rates, the uncertainty of traffic
revenue has been one of the biggest issues hindering private financing of new roads. In order to
address this issue, GOC designed a revenue support mechanism, limited in duration and size, to
improve the bankability of the project and reduce financial costs. Bidders were asked to bid on the
minimum level of comfort, if any. This support would only be available during the first nine years
(including a four-year construction period and the first five years of operation of the new link) out
of the proposed 24-year concession. These first nine years are considered to be the most critical in
terms of traffic build-up. The actual level of GOC's support is expected to represent what the
successful bidder assesses in its bid as the minimum revenue that such bidder requires for each
semester to convince lenders that project revenues would cover estimated debt service and
operation and maintenance expenses during the first nine-year period. Revenues in excess of the
minimum revenue support would be applied to cover any shortfall during unfavorable years. Thus,
GOC's funds will only be used when there is still a shortfall to be filled. Any GOC compensation
under this limited revenue obligation would be counted against the revenue target set in the
concessionaire's bid. Bidders were also asked to bid on the portion of the minimum revenue
obligation that they consider essential to cover likely fluctuations in project revenue during the
same availability period. In the event of a revenue shortfall, such portion would have become
available to the concessionaire through a Liquidity Mechanism to be funded by a Bank loan to
ensure rapid payment.
c) Government Support to Tunnel Contingencies. INVIAS would share with the concessionaire or
builder contingency costs in tunnel construction, resulting from additional works which could not
be foreseen at the design stage (such as changes in geologic or hydrologic conditions), through an
incentive structure appropriately designed to contain cost overruns. Under this arrangement, the
concessionaire would have absorbed the first 20% of such contingencies, while INVIAS would
cover the additional works above that level. The arrangement was intended to lower the final cost
of the tunnels to GOC and allow the private project sponsors to manage the risk in a cost effective
manner, thus improving the bankability of the project.
d) BankPartial Risk Guarantee. Bidders were given the option to use a Bank Partial Risk Guarantee
(PRG) to improve project borrowings. The PRG would protect project lenders or bond holders
against debt service default due to INVIAS' inability to comply with its payment obligations in the
Concession Contract (CC) in respect of: (i) MOT not authorizing the toll adjustments agreed in the
CC; (ii) compensation for events of political force majeure ("Extraordinary Excusable Events");
and (iii) compensation for possible changes in the law (such as changes to environrmental
standards, imposition of taxes on the collection of tolls, or laws restricting contractual
arrangements for toll collection) that would adversely affect the project's ability to service its debt
and lead to a default of the debt covered under the PRG.
Overall, compared with previous road concessions in Colombia, the structure offered would allocate
risks to the various parties in a more cost effective manner, reduce GOC's exposure to contingent
obligations throughout the concession period, and promote a more secure financing structure compared
to the existing concessions, capable of tapping the international markets, since neither the capacity nor
the conditions of the financing available in the local market are commensurate with the size of this
project. In particular, the minimum traffic/revenue obligations granted in previous concessions would
be reduced to a "start-up minimum revenue support" designed to cover only the initial years of
operation. The risks to be covered under the proposed PRG were restricted to political and regulatory
risks over which GOC has direct control. Thus, the level of support subject to competitive bidding
aims at restricting residual risk-bearing by GOC1.
hnfastructure privatization has frequently been accompanied by extensive residual risk-bearing by governments, which
threatens to vitiate its efficiency benefits and confront future govermments with large financial liabilities. This issue was



Page 6
* Role antictpated by the Bank. However, to limit GOC's undertakings to what was strictly needed to
enhance the viabi}ity of the project, such arrangements must have enough credibility for potential
investors to commit funds to the project at an early stage (i.e., at bidding). Thus, the role anticipated
for the Bank to support the project and the concession scheme during the bidding stage was designed to
both provide enhancement to the project for increased competition at the bidding stage and more
secured private financing; and ease Government cash management constraints through Bank
backstopping of lNVIAS contingent undertakings (as the budgetary arrangements that otherwise would
support government payments may lack the credibility needed). The Bank package consisted of two
instruments, namely: (i) one or two loans to lNVIAS to backstop its contingent obligations in respect of
eligible cost increases in tunnel construction and a Liquidity Mechanism to support revenue shortfhll
during the early years of the concession, and (ii) a Partial Risk Guarantee to improve project private
borrowings..
*  Bidding outcome. The proposed enhancement instruments and the bid evaluation criteria provided the
incentives to minimize the level of enhancement requested from government to what each bidder
considered strictly necessary, and led to a more robust competition for the project among bidders. In
turn, this yielded significant economic savings to Colombia. The bidding process enabled INVIAS to
award successfully this concession with much less exposure than initially envisaged and shift more
financing risk to the private sector, as the successful bidder declined the undertakings offered and asked
for the lowest government capital contribution. The successful bidder also did not request the use of
the Bank's Partial Risk Guarantee in its bid. The fact that two bidders out of the four who submitted
bids, requested all of the instruments supported by the Bank (including the Partial Risk Guarantee) in
their bids, and the third bidder requested one of the instruments backstopped by the Bank, reinforces
the conclusion that the support offered was deemed necessary and critical to attracting competition for
the project.
- The role anticipated by the Bank has changed since the bidding process. In view of the deterioration of
its fiscal position, GOC has requested that the Bank provide a loan to finance its capital contribution to
the project. The loan would be made to the Republic of Colombia to finance the budgetary transfers
made or to be made for iNVIAS to deposit in the applicable project Trust Account(s), the three capital
contributions requested in the successful bid as stipulated in the CC.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
* The project consists of: (a) the operation and maintenance of the existing road from El Vino to Villeta
(51 kIn); (b) the rehabilitation, operation and maintenance of the existing, winding road from Villeta to
Honda (72 kIn); (c) the construction, operation and maintenance of a new 68.4-lkn highway from
Tobiagrande to Puerto Salgar, including about 15 tunnels and about 37 bridges and viaducts; and (d)
the operation and maintenance of the existing road from Honda to San Alberto (380 kIn). The project
also includes the transfer of the management of about 200 ha. of a sub-Andean land as a natural forest
reserve, in order to preserve the environment along the right-of-way of the new road. The execution
and management of the project, and the mobilization of part of the financing required, would be done
by a private concessionaire selected on the basis of Intemational Competitive Bidding.
extensively discussed at an international conference organized by the Bank. The conference on "Dealing with Public Risk in
Private Ifrastucture" was held in Colombia in May 1997.



Page 7
Component                Category      Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-        % of
Contingencies   Total  financing    Bank-
___________________   ____   (US$M)  ____   (US$M')  financing
Road construction, rehabilitation,  Physical         496.6       87       137.1        28
and other project works to be
undertaken by the concessionaire's
Technical Assistant under a fixed-
price, fixed-term contract.
Project development, management    Project            22.5        4         0.0         0
and government supervision        Management
Financing fees/expenses, and         Other             53.2        9         0.0        0
interest during construction
Total       572.3      100       137.1        24
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
e Bringing private sector participation in managing and financing road projects to (i) mobilize additional
resources to provide, in less time, services that users are willing to pay for, and (ii) improve efficiency
in project execution.
- Structuring a public-private partnership to (i) expand the use of concessions to projects with robust
economic justification but not financially viable by the private sector alone, (ii) limit government
support to what is strictly necessary to mobilize private financing, and (iii) compensate for externalities
in the most cost-effective manner.
3. Benefits and target population:
*  Benefits. The project would remove physical constraints in transport and reduce transport costs for
goods and passengers. This would enable a higher level of economic activity and stimulate trade,
exports, and the mobility of people. By reducing travel distances and improving road alignments
through construction of the Tobiagrande-Puerto Salgar link, the proposed project would upgrade
transport links between Bogota and Medellin--the two most populous and industrialized cities of
Colombia-and between BogotA and the Atlantic Ports of Cartagena, Barranquilla and Santa Marta, the
origin and destination of over 50 percent of Colombian exports and imports (in tons, 1994). If the
improvements proposed along the corridor are not undertaken, congestion and traffic safety will
become increasingly serious on the existing Villeta-Honda road, and transport service levels will
substantially decrease. Compared to the existing road, the construction of the new road link, with its
tunnels, will bring substantial benefits, as follows: (i) the travel distance would be about 25 percent
shorter, (ii) average travel time would be reduced by more than 50 percent, and (iii) costs per vehicle-
kilometer for the vehicles diverted to the new road would be reduced by around 50 percent.
*  Implementing the project through a private-public partnership will bring important fiscal and efficiency
benefits. First, private sector financing will bring additional resources to Colombia's aggressive
infastructure modernization program, which would allow GOC to address the existing infrastructure
shortage more rapidly while freeing scarce public funds. With only public funding Colombia could not
sustain the increased levels of investment required in all sectors without a further deterioration of its
fiscal position or hard investment trade-offs. Secondly, private sector financing and management of
project construction and operation, and the limited recourse structure of the project finance, should help
improve efficiency. The private sector will bring the latest technologies available and the discipline



Page a
needed to avoid cost overruns and delays in project completion that have plagued implementation of
public sector road projects in Colombia. The concession contract ensures adequate maintenance of one
of the most strategic road corridors in Colombia and the timely provision of traffic services. Through
the concession the project will realize substantial benefits to the functioning of transport, reducing
transport costs and increasing the reliability, safety and quality of freight and passenger transport
services along the corridor.
TargetPopulation. The project intended benefits would accrue to two main groups. First, the direct
road users would benefit from traveling over about 570 km of high-quality highways, well-maintained
through a competent operator who will provide proper safety and emergency services (in 20 years of
operation more than 120 million vehicles are expected to travel on the new road link). Traffic on the
new highway would come from two main sources: traffic diverted from the existing road, and traffic
induced by the shorter travel times and the reduced transport costs which come from shorter distances
and better road alignment and gradients. It is estimated that by the end of 2007, with the project,
traffic along the corridor would increase by about 100 percent above the present levels on the existing
road. The new, generated traffic is estimated to be 45 percent of the traffic diverted from the existing
road in the first year after construction, increasing to about 78 percent by year 2025. Second, the
population at large would benefit from the increased economic activity and trade between the main
centers served by the corridor. The structure and composition of the road transport industry in
Colombia is largely unregulated (aside from safety regulations) and highly competitive. Thus, the net
reduction in transport costs brought about by the construction project should effectively reduce freight
rates, ultimately reducing the price of the transported goods. Passenger transport services between
Bogota and Medellin are expected to increase substantially (about 70 percent additional bus departures
over the 1996 levels by year 2007) as a result of the project, benefiting the low and middle income
population of Medellin and Bogota who primarily use the inter-urban passenger services.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
*  Sector Responsibility. The Ministry of Transport (MOT) has overall responsibility for the transport
sector and the policy framework within which the project will be implemented as a private toll road
concession. MOT annually approves the toll tariff proposed by INVIAS for collection on the national
road network during the incoming year. For privately operated concessions, MOT approves the initial
and subsequent tariffs, as well as the formulae for future adjustments stipulated in the respective
concession contract.
*  lNVIAS, the national road agency under the Ministry of Transport is charged with managing the
Colombian national road network. As such, INVIAS owns the road facility and is responsible for: (i)
defining the project design and performance standards, (ii) recommending and obtaining MOT's
approval of the initial toll rate structure; (iii) granting the concession to a private Project Company,
that was selected through International Competitive Bidding; (iv) purchasing within six-months of
signing the CC the land for the right-of-way and for a forest reserve; (v) channeling the government's
annual capital contribution to the project during the construction period as stipulated in the winning bid
and in the CC; (vi) auditing through designated experts the concessionaire's compliance with the design
and construction specifications and with operational performance standards and contractual obligations
set forth in the CC; (vii) seeking MOT's authorization for tariff adjustments specified in the CC, (viii)
enforcing traffic regulations throughout the concession period; and (ix) undertaking unforeseen repairs
on selected bridges existing along the Villeta-Honda and Honda-La Dorada road links, if needed,
during the concession term.
*  Franchise Holder - Concessionaire. The concessionaire, a special purpose project company, was
selected through a competitive process to build the new road and operate the project throughout the
concession term. As such, it is responsible for: (i) mobilizing part of the funds (equity and debt) and



Page 9
the resources needed to undertake the project; (ii) setting a Trustee acceptable to INVIAS to administer
project funds, expenditures and operational revenues; (iii) refining the engineering designs and
undertaking the project works within the time frame stipulated in the CC through Technical
Agreements with qualified Technical Assistants; (iv) obtaining environmental permits for construction
activities and funding the operation of the forest reserve; (v) collecting tolls at the specified toll gates
and operating the facility in compliance with minimum service and performance standards set in the
CC; (vi) returning the facility to INVIAS upon completing the concession period or reaching the
expected revenue set at the bidding stage, whichever is earlier. The concession to develop the project
was awarded in late November 1997 to Sociedad ConcesionariaMagdalenaMedio, who submitted
the lowest bid. This group is formed by Spanish (53%) and Colombian (47%) companies. Detailed
information on the composition of the concessionaire is given in Annex 2.
*  Other GovernmentAgencies. The National Department of Planning, through the Committee for
Private Participation in Infrastructure (CPPI)1 is responsible for coordinating private sector
participation in the various infrastructure sectors, and monitoring adherence to the National
Development Plan. The Ministry of the Environment (MOE) is responsible for issuing and monitoring
compliance with the environmental license for the project (MOE has already approved the
environmental license and the Environmental Management Plan; both were part of the bidding
documents). The Regional Autonomous Corporations are responsible for issuing the environmental
permits (location of campsites, protection of water sources and use of quarries) needed during
construction.
*  Concession Structure and RiskAllocation. Annex 2 provides a detailed description ofthe concession
structure, the allocation of risks among the various parties, and tariff and regulatory systems as
stipulated in the CC. Annex 2 also contains a brief description of the bidding arrangements for
procurement of the project sponsors/concessionaire through international competitive bidding. The bid
evaluation criteria was designed to mininiize the costs to GOC and its exposure to contingent
obligations. This allowed INVIAS to award the concession to the bid that represented the least
expected cost to GOC, and pass to the selected concessionaire all construction and traffic/demand risk.
- Implementation Period - Concession Term. The CC establishes a long-term concession encompassing
three phases: (i) a seven-month pre-construction period, whose implementation started on December
15, 1997 with the signing of the CC; (ii) a 48-month period for construction of the Tobiagrande-Pto.
Salgar road link, rehabilitation of the Villeta-Honda road link, and operation of the existing El Vino-
Villeta, Villeta-Honda, and Honda-San Alberto road sections. Thus, the Project is expected to be
completed during the second semester of calendar year 2002 with the opening to road traffic of the
Tobiagrande-Pto. Salgar link; and (iii) a 20-year period for operation of the four links that compose the
road corridor, or upon reaching the Total Expected Revenue bid by the successful bidder, whichever is
earlier. If the Total Expected Revenue is not achieved by the end of the 20-year term, INVIAS would
have the option of either extending the concession annually for up to five additional years, or partially
compensating the concessionaire for the non-realized portion of the Total Expected Revenue; the
concession will expire at the end of the fifth extension without any further compensation to the
concessionaire (even if it has not obtained the intended Total Expected Revenue).
*  The Bank loan will remain available for disbursements from the effective date (see Section G), which
arnong other conditions is subject to achieving conditions defined in the CC for commencement of the
construction of the Tobiagrande - Pto. Salgar road link, until June 30, 2000 or 15 months after the last
government contribution to the project is due to be paid in accordance with the CC. For the purpose of
preparing the Implementation Completion Report and future operational plan, project completion is
defined as the date on which the minutes of commencement of the operation stage are signed in
The committee is composed of top representatives from the Ministries of Finance and Public Credit, Transportation, Energy
and Mines, Environment, and the National Department of Planning.



Page 1 0
accordance with the provisions of the CC (i.e., the constmction of the Tobiagrande - Pto. Salgar road
link is completed to the satisfaction of INVIAS). Project completion is expected by December 31,
2002.
Accounting andAuditingArrangements. In accordance withthe CC, all project funds, revenues and
expenditures will be administered by a project Trustee acceptable to lNVIAS and paid by the
Concessionaire. The CC requires the concessionaire to submit to lNVIAS monthly reports on the
financial statements of the Trust Accounts, within 20 days after the end of each month. In line with the
provisions of the CC, independent auditors with international reputation will conduct the following
audits: (a) annual audits of the financial statements of the concessionaire, within three months after the
end of each fiscal year; (b) bi-annual audits of the financial statements of the project Trust Accounts,
including certification that both INVIAS' capital contribution and toll revenues from operation of the
existing road links are either available in the Trust Account or have been used to finance expenditures
in respect of (i) construction of the Tobiagrande-Pto. Salgar road link, (ii) rehabilitation of the Villeta-
Honda road link, and/or (iii) maintenance and operation of the three existing road links (El Vino-
Villeta, Villeta-Honda and Honda-La Dorada); and (c) annual audits of lNVlAS records in respect of
the project for each year. INVIAS' financial statements are not required because its financial
involvement in the project is limited to the three capital contributions stipulated in Clause 18.2 of the
CC. The audit report(s) would be furnished to the Bank within four months after the close of the fiscal
year.
* Monitoring. The monitoring of project implementation encompasses two levels. One level consists of
the reports that the concessionaire and the independent supervisor appointed by lNVIAS will produce
throughout the different phases of the concession in accordance with the CC and the Colombian
Regulations for Operation of Road Concessions. These reviews include biannual evaluations of the
condition and level of service of the facility, monthly reports on maintenance activities, operation and
safety performance of the facility, and weekly reports on traffic volumes by category, toll revenues and
axle-weight controls generated by the systems operating at tollgates and axle-weight control stations.
These reports will be available for consultation from the Sub-directorate of Road Concessions, the unit
within INVIAS charged with overseeing the road concession program. INVIAS will appoint
independent experts to supervise construction activities and monitor the safe and efficient operation of
the facility, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. Their fees and expenses would be paid
by the project Trustee from project revenues. A second level of monitoring consists of performance
reviews undertaken periodically by INVIAS on (i) the progress made by the project toward
accomplishing its development objectives, as measured by the outcome of the performance indicators in
the Project Design Summary, and (ii) the implementation of the Resettlement Plan and Social
Assistance Program that are part of the project's Environmental Management Plan.
* Reporting. INVIAS, through the Office of Concessions, will prepare and furnish to the Bank by
August 31 in each year a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed to determine the progress during the previous year towards implementation and achievement
of the objectives of the project based on agreed performance indicators (see Project Design Summary).
The reports would also contain other relevant information such as: (i) up-to-date traffic and revenue
data for the tollgates in operation; (ii) an assessment of the validity of the critical assumptions stated in
the Project Design Summary, and of the problems directly or indirectly associated with the
implementation of the project: (iii) status of compliance of the various parties with their obligations
under the CC, (iv) status of compliance by GOC and INVTAS with the covenants in the Loan and
Project Agreements, respectively; and (v) the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying
out of the project and the achievement of its objectives.
* Bank Supervision - Annual Reviews. Overall it is estimated that the Bank supervision effort would
entail about 40 staff-weeks. This would result in an annual average often staff-weeks during the



Page 1 1
project implementation period (construction period for the Tobiagrande-Pto. Salgar road link). The
core team would involve a highway engineer, an environmental specialist, and a financial analyst. The
team would draw other skills as needed, including a transport economist to perform an evaluation of
the project outcome upon construction of the new link, and tunnel, bridge and project finance
specialists. During the third quarter each year, the Bank, INVIAS and the CPPI will conduct a formal
annual review of the progress made in reaching the project objectives. The annual reviews will also
provide an opportunity to (i) exchange views about the project technical, financial and economic
performance, (ii) if relevant, the adequacy of the budgetary allocations to support NVIAS' payment
obligations under the CC, and (iii) policy and implementation issues related to the execution of the road
concession program. The last formal review, which will take place upon completion of the
Tobiagrande-Pto. Salgar road link, will also include a retrospective review of the project and an
assessment of its development impact, to be incorporated into the Implementation Completion Report.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
* Other Project Design Options. Two alternatives have been considered to improve transport conditions
along the corridor: (i) improvements along the existing highway to allow enough capacity for the
expected increases in traffic, and (ii) the construction of a new highway from Tobiagrande to Puerto
Salgar (the project). Both alternatives were compared to the base alternative of maintaining the
existing road in acceptable condition, but without any major improvements to its capacity. The
economic worth of the construction alternative is higher than the alternative of improving the existing
road because of the higher level of induced traffic and the larger reduction in both vehicle operating
costs and travel times of the construction alternative. The incremental approach of improving the
existing highway is also expensive due to the difficult topographic conditions and extensive
development of the area (the improvement cost is estimated at about US$125 million). This alternative
would have an overall economic rate of return of about 15% and would generate about US$40 million
of net benefits in present value terms. Therefore, this alternative, though economically feasible, does
not compare favorably against the construction of the Tobiagrande-Pto. Salgar road (see Section 13).
Consideration has been given to another array of alternatives, including the rehabilitation of a parallel
railway line, but have not been deemed worthwhile of further analysis due to their much higher costs
and limited capacity (and, consequently, expected benefits).
* Public Funding Options. The alternatives of funding the project entirely in the public sector or of
undertaking part of the road improvements outside the concession were rejected in favor of the
proposed private-public partnership. Private sector financing and management is expected to: (i) bring
additional resources to undertake the project in a shorter time, freeing scarce government funds for
investments in social sectors; and (ii) increase the efficiency in construction and operation of the project
through increased market discipline, ensuring the project is completed on time and within budget.
These advantages offset the higher cost of mobilizing private financing as determined under a financial
assessment undertaken by the Bank during project preparation'.
l The assessment of the financial costs to GOC derived from various possible options for financing the project and
structuring GOC's subsidy demonstrates that, under ideal conditions, GOC could finance this project at a lower cost than
the private sector. But GOC could not sustain these levels of investments in all sectors indefinitely without reducing its
creditworthiness. Moreover, after accounting for actual experience with cost overruns and completion delays in public
sector road projects, the analysis shows that the proposed private-public partnership approach would be less cosdy. The
outcome of the assessment can be summarized as follows: (a) in principle, the public ownership/financing option would
yield the highest NPV for GOC due to GOC's good credit standing and access to capital markets. This public funding
alternative, however, entails using up a susbstantially larger amount of extemal public borrowing for the project (a larger
capital diversion from other sectors) and is highly sensitive to delays in project completion or cost overruns; (b) an overall
cost increase of 47% in the value of the turnkey contract (no delays in construction), or a combination of a two-year delay in
commissioning the new road with 43% cost increase, or a four-year with a 32% cost increase would be sufficient to render
the project as costly as the proposed private-public partnership. Past experience in the road sector in Colombia suggests



Page 12
Other options that may in theory attain comparable levels of efficiency, still in the domain of public
financing, were also rejected. Govermnent could auction the building of the project to a private
contractor against a lump-sum determined by the lowest bidder that satisfies certain technical
requirements, awarding a "turnkey contract". Government could then set up a second auction to
concession the operation of the facility. This scheme faces some disadvantages: (i) no market-based
incentives to screen the viability of the project; (ii) it has yet to be demonstrated that the same
efficiency gains would be achieved in the absence of the discipline that the limited recourse of the
proposed project financing arrangements is expected to bring about; and (iii) a greater danger that
social or political opposition may prevent charging efficient user-fees, since govemments usually lack
the strength to resist such pressures.
* Government Subsidy Options. An up-front capital contribution, determined at the bidding stage, was
preferred over an operational subsidy because it reduces govermment exposure throughout project
operation, enhances bid responsiveness, and reduces the financing risks to be bome by the private
sponsors. In addition, an up-front subsidy is subject to budget approval when the project competes
with other items in the Govermnent agenda, thus faces serious scrutiny. In comparison, subsidies
during project operation --and the minimum revenue undertakings necessarily associated with them-- do
not face such a screening and often imply higher liabilities for future administrations. Although the
private sponsors' investment at risk would be smaller than if they had to finance the whole project in
the absence of GOC's subsidy, the incentives to screen the project for financial viability remain
because such investment is still substantial. The option to treat GOC's capital contribution as
subordinated debt was rejected because calculations based on the financial analysis demonstrated that
the concessionaire would not be able to pay back to INVIAS such amount of debt without extending
substantially the proposed concession term (presently 24 years). This could result in having to
postpone needed capacity expansions as the concessionaire would remain operating the facility but
would not be able to undertake such costly investments, or in having to negotiate the execution of such
investments through less cost-effective arrangements with the concessionaire. In this project, the
expansion of the tunnels would be too costly to finance with the excess revenue or to contemplate its
implementation under the concession contract. A new concession would have to be awarded.
G Government Revenue Recapture Mechanism. A revenue recapture mechanism that would require the
concessionaire to physically surrender to INVIAS all or a portion of the excess revenue during or after
the expiration of the minimum revenue protection period, was rejected as not suitable in this project.
Diverting the project's excess revenues to INVIAS would: (i) prevent bidders from taking a position on
the project's future potential upside revenue. Bidders would tend to set the Minimum Revenue Support
at a higher level than they otherwise would under the current arrangement, to protect their equity return
from being transferred to NVIAS. Bidders would also tend to seek a larger up-front contribution from
Government, if the recapture mechanism is set at a level that would not allow them to realize the
expected return on their investment within the concession term; (ii) deprive the concessionaire from the
flexibility and incentive of using its excess revenue to enhance future project performance and income
through better service, maintenance, promotion, etc. (as it would have no incentives to improve
performance once the "recapture lever' is achieved or exceeded); and (iii) result, in the event that the
traffic levels exceed the projections, in having to postpone needed capacity expansions with the
drawbacks noted above.
that such delays and cost increases are likely to occur if the project is implemented as a purely public project, due to the
weaker incentives to contain costs and avoid delays; (c) the proposed structure -with GOC making an up-front contribution-
- is more cost effective than a cash-flow deficiency support throughout the concession period; and (d) the fact that GOC has
to make a capital contribution to the project does not change the validity of the above conclusions. (The public funding
option would also in principle yield the highest NPV, in the event that the project revenues were capable of defraying the
costs without GOC's capital contribution).



Page 13
Bank Instrument Options. The initial Bank package proposed to support the bidding process consisted
of (i) a Partial Risk Guarantee related to a limited number of contractual obligations of INVIAS; and
(ii) one or two loans to lNVIAS to finance partially its contingent obligations in respect of eligible
additional works incurred by the concessionaire in the construction of tunnels, and a revenue support
mechanism, limited in size and duration. These instruments were chosen to provide enhancement to the
project, after considering other possible sources for similar instruments. The market was to determine
whether these instruments were needed, as bidders would bid on the size and availability period of the
proposed Liquidity Mechanism -subject to caps specified in the bidding documents, and choose
whether to use the partial risk guarantee. Bank backstopping of the Liquidity Mechanism through a
revolving loan was perceived as the most cost-effective enhancement mechanism compared to other
alternatives explored as none of the alternatives considered met all the project requirements within the
current legal and budgetary framework in Colombia, or provided the same level of comfort to project
investors during bidding as the proposed revolving feature. Although, the successful bidder declined
to use these instruments, they had significant impact in increasing competition for the project.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
Sector Issue                              Project         Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                                      Progress        Objective
Improving national roads and strengthening MOPT and its    Third National              S               S
successor INVIAS. Major institutional reform between 1993-  Roads Sector Proj.
4 turned INVIAS into agency more capable than predecessor.  Ln 3453-CO.
~~~~~~~..................I............."Il,.............- --...........', ",...................,....    ......l",......................................... .....    ......................................   ..................................................................... ..... .................
Developing institutional, regulatory and enforcement      Regulatory Reform            S               S
capacity within Government to design infrastructure projects   Techn. Assistance.
.A.r.Pprivate financing. (cofinanced with IDB).           Ln. 4138-CO.
................................  . ..............................................................   .............................................. .. ......................................  .....................
Establishing an Infrastructure Finance Facility under an  Private Sector
experienced public sector bank to provide refinancing     Infrastructure
commitments to improve terms of local debt financing.      acilit (FY99)
C^onsolidating INVIAS as a high-performance road agency,    National Roads
and improving two strategic highway corridors.           JY0
Other development agencies:  IDB                          Transport Corridors.                        n/a
Improving highway corridors and department's capacity.    Departmental Roads.         n/a             n/a
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
*  Both the project's design and the choice of Bank instruments build on the experience available
internationally, and in particular the results obtained so far in Colombia with the on-going plan for
infrastructure development through private sector participation. A precondition is to have a credible,
enabling regulatory framework in place, supported by tangible evidence of Government's commitment
to private sector participation in infrastructure.
*  Project Design and implementation Lessons. Most of the implementation issues experienced with the
road concession program can be addressed by emphasizing quality-at-entry in project preparation, by:
(i) retaining financial advisors with international experience to structure the project, prepare the legal
documentation and advise TIVIAS throughout the procurement process; (ii) designing the bidding
process to attract high quality international investors (including a well-targeted promotion campaign
and a clear bid evaluation criteria to prompt bidders' attention on the few parameters upon which
strong competition is critical for achieving long-term efficiency); (iii) making available to prospective
bidders detailed engineering data but allowing them the time needed to quote their own estimates; (iv)
using state-of-the-art technology to produce traffic forecasts and undertake risk analysis; (v) addressing
in advance environmental and social issues that may arise from the proposed route location, the toll



Page 14
rate structure, and the location of toll collection facilities; (vi) having the right-of-way purchased before
the concessionaire reaches financial close; and (vii) in view of the long duration of the concession term,
designing a robust contract with built-in incentives to improve performance and with flexibility to
manage uncertainties but avoiding opportunistic negotiations.
Project Finance Lessons. Selecting the appropriate projects is essential, as financial engineering will
not turn a bad project into a successful one; the project should have a robust justification for the
transportation system, and its design standards and the tariffs commensurate with its functional
justification and the ability of users to pay the tolls. Financial sustainability of a BOT project of the
size of the El Vino-Pto. Salgar project requires mobilizing more secure and favorable financing
structures than those prevailing in current road concessions in Colombia. This requirement
necessitates ensuring access to both international and domestic markets by (i) improving the allocation
of risks among the parties in the current concession contracts (in particular termination clauses); (ii)
redefining government support through fewer obligations but directly aimed at helping the
concessionaire meet its debtor obligations, particularly at the beginning of the concession; (iii) giving
liquidity to these obligations through clear and credible compensation mechanisms; and (iv) minimizing
the impact of the foreign exchange risk (in view that all project revenues are in local currency).
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
* Commitment. GOC is strongly committed to bringing private sector participation in infrastructure. As
stated in the CONPES document of May 30, 1995, the objectives of this policy decision are to: (i)
increase efficiency in project construction; (ii) mobilize additional resources to supply necessary
services in shorter time; (iii) reduce public sector risks; (iv) obtain the benefits of competition; and (v)
channel government resources into social sectors. The document also set the policy guidelines for
private sector involvement, and created a permanent group within DNP to support the CPPI. The unit
assists in the promotion of projects and ensures consistency in the application of Government policy,
definition of risk-sharing arrangements, and approval of Government-backed contingent undertakings.
For 1996-1998 the National Development Plan envisions about US$30.2 billion in infrastructure
expansion, of which about US$13.5 billion would come from the private sector. GOC has requested
IDB and the Bank to support through a technical assistance project the development of appropriate
regulatory frameworks and institutional capacity for project design and regulation enforcement (see
Section 9 above). Monopolies in shipping, railways and ports have been dismantled by allowing
private entry and by liquidating existing public monopolies.
*  Ownership. GOC's ownership of the project is demonstrated by: (i) the priority given to the project in
the National Development Plan; (ii) the approval by the CPPI in August 1996 of the project scope, the
Government's capital contribution to the project, the proposed allocation of risks, and the Bank's
enhancement to the project; (iii) the approval by CONFIS in December 1996 of the budgetary
allocations for GOC's support to the project, including the future budgetary commitments to support
INVIAS capital contribution and contingent payment obligations under the CC; and (iv) the interest
shown in Bank support through enhancement instruments.
* Prior to Board presentation, INVIAS will have undertaken the following actions: (i) procuring the
concessionaire and entering into a long-term concession contract, following prequalification and
bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank, (ii) starting the acquisition of land for the right-of-way in
accordance with the Environmental License and the engineering designs submitted by the
concessionaire, and (iii) depositing into the project Trust Account the first (advance) capital
contribution to the project.



Page 15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
*  Bank participation in the phases of project design and procurement of private sponsors provided
enhancement for increased competition and more secured private financing. The proposed project is
the first operation in LAC that contemplated Bank support to a privately funded project through credit
enhancement instrunents offered at the bidding stage. Bank involvement helped GOC to remove some
of the concession design and financing constraints that have slowed down implementation of the road
concession program: attract more qualified bidders to compete for the project; design concessions with
less risk-bearing by government than the previous ones (especially in the case of public-private
partnerships); and help establish a track record that would ultimately attract private investors with less
government involvement. INVIAS is using the experience gained so far in structuring the proposed
project to improve the design of new concessions contemplated under its road program. Further Bank
involvement during project implementation will bring worldwide knowledge on best practices to help
strengthen INYIAS' capacity to oversee and enforce road concession contracts.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[/] Cost-Benefit Analysis : NPV= US$290.0 million equivalent; ERR= 19.5%
[ ] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[ O Other (Specify)
* Economic Analysis. The economic analysis encompasses the comparison of the incremental economic
costs and benefits that the construction of a new road would bring to the transportation system of
Colombia and, consequently to the country's economic wealth. Both costs and benefits are calculated,
in economic values, for the situation with and without the project to generate the annual incremental
costs and benefits during the project's life. It required simulating the deterioration of conditions of the
road caused by climate and the expected traffic, given the topographic and geometric specifications of
the existing and proposed roads, and the calculation of the savings in operating costs to the traffic
diverted to the new highway, the traffic induced by the existence of a faster and better facility, and the
traffic that will remain on the existing road. The analysis also included the evaluation of the alternative
of expanding the capacity of the existing highway to better service the expected traffic volumes. Both
the construction and the expansion alternatives were compared to the base alternative of maintaining
the existing road, without any major improvements to its capacity.
* The economic rate of return, estimated at around 19.5 percent provides an indication of the economic
robustness of the project and its benefits to advance the economic development of Colombia.
Quantifiable project benefits include (see Annex 4): (i) changes in consumer surplus for the current
traffic as a consequence of reduced vehicle operating costs; (ii) savings in time for current traffic; (iii)
consumer surplus for the generated traffic; (iv) the generated traffic times the respective toll on the new
highway, to fully account the value of the willingness-to-pay of the generated traffic; and (v) reduction
in accidents and vehicle damage
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
Pre-bid.financial assessment        Sponsors base case
Project FRR %                           7.7                             8.3
EquityIRR%                              18.0                            12.0
Net Present Value' (US$M)               104.5                          25.3
(1) In calculating the NPV, cash flows discounted at 5.5% and 7.7% for pre-bid finanial assessment, and sponsor's base case, respectively.
* Pre-bid financial assessment. Initial project design incorporated various incentive mechanisms within



Page 16
the financial parameters to attract sufficient and competitive interest from private sponsors and lenders.
The initial financial assessment developed the framework for setting the maximum government
contribution and contingent undertakings offered, and eventually reduced through competitive bidding.
The key parameters in which the initial assessment was based include a real return on private equity of
18 percent, average debt service coverage of 2.0x, and minimum debt service coverage of 1.4x. From
this assessment, the project framework estimated a maximum Government contribution of US$250.0
million, total private financing of about $208.0 million, and use of the Bank's Partial Risk Guarantee.
Revenue forecasts were very conservative as the traffic assumptions prepared by GOC's consultants in
1996 were based on somewhat average annual population and GDP growth rates for the concession
period of around 1.2 and 2.5 percent, respectively. During the ramp up period upon completion of the
new road link, annual traffic growth was estimated at around 8.3 percent, dropping to around 3.3
percent in the later years of the concession.
* Post-bidfinancial assessment. Although the concessionaire is in the process of finalizing its financial
plan and lining up the necessary debt financing, the Bank has reviewed the basic parameters of the
project, which appear to be feasible. Using these similar traffic assumptions except for more robust
increases in the later years of the concession, the winning bidder estimated a higher upside revenue
generation for the project and structured its bid, accordingly. The concessionaire, which based its bid
on the greater upside potential of the project, predicted annual growth rates of around 8.4 percent
during construction and 5.1 percent for the later years of the concession. The concessionaire's bid is
based on a lower Government contribution of US$137.1 million, and without the enhancement
mechanisms offered in the bidding package. In its indicative financial plan, the concessionaire
estimated that it will mobilize approximately $390.0 million (debt/equity ratio of 75:25), financed in
both local and foreign currency, but with a larger percentage of the former. In addition, the
concessionaire estimated that construction costs would be about 12% higher than in the pre-bid
assessment, but with all the contingencies included (e.g. geologic risk). Based on the Bank's review of
these parameters, it estimated that the concessionaire real rate of return on equity would be around 12.0
percent, project NPV of about US$25.3 million, and an average debt coverage ratio is 1.7x.
* Considering that the financial plan has not yet been finalized, the following sensitivity analysis
summarizes the possible outcomes under three scenarios:
a) Local debt financing only. If the project is financed by using solely local debt, interest costs would
increase, and the real rate of return on equity would drop slightly to 11.0 percent, average debt
service coverage would decrease to 1.4x and the NPV for the would become slightly negative. The
concessionaire may experience a cash shortfall for 3 to 4 years during the operational period,
which would be made up through either equity or short-term borrowings. This scenario is unlikely
to occur given that the concessionaire already indicated in its bid that its had obtained a
commitment of approximately US$90.0 million in foreign-currency denominated debt.
b) Lower Equity Contribution. If the concessionaire reduces its equity contribution to minimum debt
to equity ratio stipulated in the CC (80:20), then the real rate of return on equity would drop to
about 10.5 percent, the net present value would be around $20.8 million, and average debt service
ratio would be 1.5x.
c) Lower traffic levels. If average annual traffic growti for the later years of the concessions falls to
the 3.3 percent estimated by the government consultants in early 1996, then the real rate return on
equity would be around 8.6 percent, the net present value would become negative, and average debt
service coverage would be around 1.3x. Under this scenario, the concession term would be
extended for an additional five years, the maximum extension possible under the CC.
* The concessionaire is expected to finalize the security arrangements and reach financial closure within



Page 17
three months. Both items are conditions for commencing project works, and Bank loan effectiveness.
The CC has adequate safeguards to mitigate against potential delays in reaching financial closure. To
prevent against construction delays and cost increases, the concessionaire will enter into a fixed-term,
fixed-price construction contract.
* Fiscal impact. Project costs were compared to current budget levels of INVIAS and of the national
government, as well as to their recovery from users (in the form of tolls and other charges) to assess the
fiscal impact of the project. With no participation of the private sector in the financing of the road, the
project would represent, during the construction period, between 12 and 18 percent of the road sector
investment program for the national network, taking at the peak a sizable percentage of the budgetary
resources of lNVlAS. However, with partial private financing the Government contribution would be
reduced to between 4 and 6 percent, and hence the project's fiscal impact from the perspective INVIAS
would be manageable. As a measure of fiscal prudence, lNVIAS had accounted in its budget the
expected losses that could result from eligible cost increases in tunnel construction and revenue
shortfall during the availability of the Minimum Revenue Support; however, the outcome of the bidding
process has eliminated the need for such budgetary contingencies.
*  The tolls established for the various links of the project, though higher than the short-run marginal
costs of maintaining, operating and rehabilitating the road, are compatible with those currently existing
in the rest of the Colombian road network. These tolls attempt to balance the level of revenues with the
levels of service and maintenance requirements for each link of the network. The tolls would cover
operating and maintenance costs and provide the concessionaire with a reasonable return on the
investment, net of the government contribution.
* A calculation of the charges currently paid by road users aside from tolls (in the form of import,
registration, fuel and sales taxes and other fees above the general levels applied to most goods in the
economy) reveals that the users of the project's 570-km network would contribute in present value
ternms and during the planned concession period, with about US$290 nillion. This value compares
favorably with the expected cost to Government which, based on the amount requested in the
successful bid for its up-front contribution (no exposure to other contingent obligations) is estimated at
about US$130 million in net present value terms. As such, GOC's capital contribution would be
covered from taxes and fees allocated to the road sector and, although embedded in the overall budget,
it would actually come from the road users.
3. Technical:
*  The project would remove one of the main transportation bottlenecks in Colombia's trunk road system.
The completion in 1995 of the Troncal del Magdalena highway' brought significant improvements to
the transportation system, as its good technical specifications attracted the long-distance traffic from
the slow, competing routes. The project would provide a high quality connection between the Bogota
area and the Troncal, at the expense of costly tunnels needed to overcome the rugged terrain without
compromising the design standards. The technical specifications proposed for the road are well-suited
to the project objectives and commensurate with traffic projections. lNVIAS retained specialized
international consultants to carry out the traffic study. The resulting traffic forecasts are based on
state-of-the-art methodologies and reasonable assumptions for regional population and economic
growth.
* Although the project's reliance on tunnels is a rather new approach in Colombia, ample experience
exists internationally of its efficient use (most notably in Europe). International experts in tunnels have
The Troncal delMagdalena highway has been a major investment partially funded by previous Bank loans. Its construction
took ten years to complete between 1985 and 1995. Since the aligmnent goes along the Magdalena River basin, it avoids the
mountain ranges that substantially reduce operating conditions on alternative routes.



Page 18
supervised the feasibility of the designs and its application to the conditions in Colombia. The
proposed project structure will allow GOC to best tap the international experience available. The first
project in Colombia's road modernization program to make use of tunnels is the Bogota-VilDavicencio
highway. Two tunnels (about 2.5 km and 4.1 km long respectively) are currently under construction
under that project.
Project preparation gave priority to surveying geologic, hydrologic and soils conditions along the
proposed alignment and in particular the tunnels. Borings and soil core investigations were conducted
along the tunnel alignments and for each tunnel portal. The surveys provide a detailed description of
the rock class that would be encountered in the tunnels (about 90% is hard rock). Because of their high
costs, bidders may not be inclined to undertake such detailed surveys during the bidding process.
However, making available this information to bidders allowed them to submit more accurate
quotations and reduce uncertainties during construction.
4. Institutional:
* Executing agencies: The concessionaire, a private Project Company formed specifically for the
purpose of undertaking the project, would be responsible for mobilizing aDl the resources needed.
Details on the composition and implementation arrangements are given in Annex 2. The incentives
provided by the limited recourse structure of the project together with the qualifications required under
the competitive selection of the concessionaire, give reasonable assurance that the project company will
look after a timely and efficient implementation of the project. Structuring the project as a BOT has
forced INVIAS to address carefully the potential project risks. INVIAS has demonstrated its
commitment to implementing the road concession program and solving the issues that arose in the on-
going concessions. The lessons learned in this process were taken into account for project design (see
Section 10).
- Project management: The concessionaire will manage the execution of the project through various
contracts specifically designed to diversify the risks and allocate them in the most efficient manner,
such as a fixed-price, fixed-term contract for construction of the new road, and other contracts
(Technical Agreements) for the design, operation and maintenance of the facilities. Specialized
consultants will monitor the execution of the project on behalf of INVIAS. The Sub-directorate of
Concessions within INVIAS will oversee project implementation and the concessionaire's compliance
with the performance standards. The capacity to enforce such performance standards derives from
INVIAS' reliance on specialized consulta'nts, who will be retained to perform periodic evaluations of
the condition of the road network.
5. Social:
* The proposed project would benefit long-distance traffic traveling between BogotA and Medellin, and
Bogota and the ports on Colombia's northern ports. For the new road link, road users will enjoy
substantial savings in vehicle operating and travel time costs, ranging between Col$21,000 per vehicle
for cars and Col$82,000 per vehicle for articulated trucks. The proposed tolls represent contributions
from users varying between 9 and 36 percent of users' savings (the lowest value corresponding to
buses and the highest to medium trucks). Given that the structure and composition of the road
transport industry in Colombia is largely unregulated (the main exception being safety regulations) and
highly competitive, the net reduction in transport costs brought about by the construction project
should effectively reduce freight rates, ultimately reducing the price of the transported goods and bus
passenger tariffs, facilitating the mobilization of population and the integration of the country.
* In addition, the construction of the new link would benefit the currently largely-isolated areas in the
municipios of Nimaima, Quebradanegra, Utica, Guaduas, Caparrapi and Puerto Salgar (a combined
population of about 70,000 inhabitants). The prevalence of poverty in these municipios is higher than
the average for the country. About 70% of the population is rural, and devoted to low-income



Page 19
activities. Through the Social Assistance Plan agreed under the project, these local communities would
realize the potential development that the construction and operation of the Tobiagrande-Pto. Salgar
road section would bring about (see Section 18). By reducing congestion on the existing road, the
towns of Villeta, Guaduas and Honda would improve their prospects as tourist destinations for the
population of Bogota, although certain commercial activities (such as gas stations, mechanic services,
and food stores) may see their business reduced by the diversion of traffic to the new link.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category [ v A [ ] B   [ ] C
*  Project Enironmental Impacts. The main environmental issues related to the proposed concession
concern to the construction of the El Vino-Puerto Salgar road link. Direct and indirect impacts on
soils, vegetation, archaeological sites, and population have been analyzed extensively, and appropriate
mitigation and compensation measures have been identified and incorporated into the project design
and the financing arrangements. The environmental and social management measures, and the detailed
definition of institutional responsibilities among the different actors (INVTAS, concessionaire,
municipalities), discussed below, have set benchmarks for private sector participation in infrastructure
projects in Colombia. The Environmental Impact Assessment Study is available for consultation in the
Public Information Center. The study includes a detailed Environmental Management Plan, with a
plan for resettlement of about 12 vulnerable families and a program for Social Assistance for the
people and municipalities affected by the construction ofthe Tobiagrande-Pto. Salgar road link.
*  Direct Impacts. Main direct environmental impacts include: (i) increased erosion and landslides along
unstable geological formations; (ii) clearing of very small patches of Andean forest and protective
vegetative cover; (iii) crossing of areas with yet unknown but with some potential for archaeological
remains; (iv) displacement of small number of dispersed rural population; (v) passing through rural
communities; and (vi) disposal of earth cuts. The selection ofthe alignment and the technical
specifications of the road has been an important environmental management planning tool. This
evaluation was done through an iterative process that entailed the analysis of various route locations,
the assessment of their environmental impacts, and consultations with affected communities. As a
result, the final road alignment and the conceptual design avoids the need for the resettlement of
population (about 40 families will be displaced), the passing through rural communities and small
towns, and the crossing of unstable areas through the construction of about 15 tunnels minimizes the
need of clearing of sensitive vegetation covers.
*  Mitigation and compensatory measures for possible direct impacts include: (i) the design of a disposal
plan for management of construction disposal. The plan identifies possible disposal sites and specifies
drainage and vegetation recovery plans for their proper management; (ii) the establishment of a small,
yet ecologically significant Andean forest conservation area in the Rio Negro canyon. The reserve will
help preserve 200 ha. of sub-Andean forest and protect the most critical part of the canyon. The river
is also a natural hazard for the villages of Tobia and Utica. INVIAS will purchase the land, and the
concessionaire will finance through the project the infrastructure needed to operate the reserve (e.g.
demarcation, paths, etc.); (iii) the implementation of the relocation plan for displaced rural families.
Although displacement of families has been kept to a minimum, about 40 households will need to be
relocated. The socioeconomic studies have identified the most vulnerable families (about 12 families
without land tittles, elderly inhabitants, single mother families, below poverty line or in peril of
impoverishment), which in addition to housing will receive social and economic assistance during the
relocation process; (iv) establishment of chance-finding procedures for management of archaeological
sites and remains during construction; and (v) the use of a specialized environmental supervision to
monitor the construction process and the concessionaire's compliance with the environmental
requirements and plans.
* Indirect Impacts. Socioeconomic conditions in the area of influence of the road are precarious, with



Page 20
high urban and rural unemployment, low coverage of water, sanitation and health services, and weak
institutional capacity within the municipalities. Indirect impacts on land use and land speculation, and
the potential for disorderly development of rural towns and villages, have also been identified as
important issues along the new road. INVIAS has designed technical and social assistance programs
for all municipalities in the area of influence of the road. The programs, which are already under
implementation, will: (i) provide technical assistance to municipalities to review, prepare or strengthen
municipal land use programs and strengthen their enforcement capacity; (ii) finance through an
agreement with the National Apprenticeship Service Agency (SENA) a training program aimed at
developing the basic skills needed for more than 500 local workers to perform intermediate road
construction jobs (such topographic surveys, equipment operation and maintenance), thereby allowing
them to have access to employment opportunities generated by the construction of the road; (iii)
implement a community information and consultation program. These programs include
implementation schedules, institutional responsibilities, and sources of funds.
*  INV4AS' Environmental Responsibilities. INVIAS' Sub-directorate of the Environment, with the
assistance of consultants, prepared a full Environmental Assessment and conducted public audiences
and consultations with the affected municipalities. The report has been reviewed by the Bank and
found satisfactory. INVIAS' environmental unit was initially established under MOPT and
strengthened with the support of the Third National Road Sector Project. Now it houses a
multidisciplinary group of about 50 engineers, biologists, socials scientists, geographers, social
workers, and lawyers. In its five years of existence, it has developed into a skilled unit capable of
addressing environmental and social issues in road projects, with recognized impact on the decision
making processes of INVIAS. This capacity gives further assurance for the successful implementation
of all environmental and social plans for the project. INVIAS specific environmental responsibilities in
respect of the project include (i) purchasing the land needed for both the right-of-way and the forest
reserve, (ii) supervising project implementation and compliance with the environmental standards and
requirements set forth in the CC, and (iii) monitoring the social assistance program outlined above.
* Concessionaire 's Environmental Responsibilities. All of the environmental responsibilities assigned
to the concessionaire in the Environmental Tmpact Assessment Study were clearly identified and
incorporated into an Annex to the CC. The environmental guidelines for road construction developed
by INVIAS under the Third National Road Sector Project also form part of the CC.
7. Participatory approach:
*  Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups. INVIAS consulted with the affected communities
and the five municipios in the project area (Tobiagrande-Pto. Salgar link) during project preparation.
These consultations resulted in changes to the initial route location to avoid passing through or too
close to some villages and other sensitive areas. The location of tollgates was also determined by
lNVIAS based on consultations with the affected municipios along the project corridor CC.
*  Other key stakeholders. Through the project's Social Assistance Program community groups along the
Tobiagrande - Pto. Salgar area will receive training to participate directly or indirectly in project
activities; local government will receive technical assistance in land- use planning and development of
enforcement capacity. Local community groups will participate in the implementation of these
programs. The concessionaire is required to establish a Community Information and Consultation Unit.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
* The sustainability of the project benefits derives from: (i) the ability of the concessionaire to complete
the project and comply with the performance standards set in the CC; and (ii) the acceptance of the



Page 21
proposed toll rates by road users. Choosing a competent project sponsor, with sufficient qualifications
as an operator of long-term concessions, strengthens the project's sustainability. Initial toll rates were
set by INVIAS taking into account the user's willingness to pay and possible impact on traffic
diversion. The Government's contribution is intended to make the project financially viable with
affordable toil rates. In turn, the project must generate enough revenues to enable the concessionaire
service the debt and cover operation and maintenance expenditures. A critical factor is to mobilize
long-term debt to avoid excessive exposure during the first years of operation of the concession.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                      Risk Rating              Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell 'from Outputs to
Objective"
Overall project economic and financial             S        The uncertainty of traffic forecasts has been a major
perfonnance hampered by traffic volumes                     issue in greenfield projects. The inclusion of
significantly below forecasts. Traffic                      existing sections with an established traffic pattem
growth along the corridor may be                            reduces, albeit partially, this risk. The project was
restrained by deterioration of economic                     design on the basis of conservative traffic
activity, or changes in traffic patterns on                 projections prepared by an independent consultant
national road network induced by other                      with ample experience in toll roads. Base-case
government investments.                                     scenario shows a robust traffic-growth potential,
with the early years of the concession the most
critical. Concessionaire's revenue expectations are
slightly higher than base case scenario towards the
................. ..............................................................................  .............................. .14 i y R g~ ..........o A
Public opposition to toils, resulting from         S        Historically, toll rates on national highways have
rates that after the inflation adjustments                  kept pace with inflation, and the expansion of the
stipulated in the CC, exceed users'                         road concession program reassures this policy will
willingness or ability to pay (which largely                continue. Initial toll rates are deemed affordable in
depends on how country economic                            this context.
conditions evolve).
...................................................................................................... . . . . . . . ...................................................................................................
Poor project performance due to(i)                M         Risks minimization measures include: (i) the
concessionaire's inability to comply with                   concessionaire's potential to realize an accelerated
the standards stipulated in the CC, (ii)                    return on the investment in the event that the
constraints imposed by the project design                   facility outperforms the traffic projections, or a loss
(e.g., deficient level of service in tunnels),              of revenue in the event traffic falls because of poor
or (iii) interference with the operation of                 performance; (ii) the operator liability to
the facility or the development of traffic                  performance penalties set forth in the CC for non-
resulting from the deterioration of security                compliance with stipulated standards; (iii) the
conditions in the project area (exposure to                 discipline brought by the lenders' scrutiny of
current areas of guerrilla activity is low but              financial covenants; (iv) stringent qualifications
northern sections on the Honda-San                          requirements met by the concessionaire, which
Alberto link are close to the Magdalena                     minimize the risk of unskilled operator; and (v)
Medio region, one of the most violent in                    availability of insurance for the concessionaire to
the country).                                               protect its investment from guerrilla interference.
~~~~~~....   i r        exa. .................................... ............... ................... .................. .............................. ...... ................................................................................
Fluctuations of foreign exchange and              M         The use of the Minimum Revenue Support, which
interest rates (where project revenues are in               being denominated in US currency would protect
currency different to debt) may result in a                 (albeit partially) against normal variations in
debt-service burden beyond the capacity of                  exchange and interest rates during construction and
the project.                                                ramp-up period, was declined by the successful
bidder. Other measures available include the use of
a mix of local and foreign financing and hedging
arrangements.... floating debt and stand-by



Page 22
............................................................... . ...............................................  ............... . .... .. -".............................. ...... .... .............. . ..  . ..
funding..
Annex 1, cell 'from Components to
uQ  ts"f                 ... .........   ................. .... ............... ...... ............................ .......... 
Delays in project start-up due to (i) the          S        The initial bid structure attracted strong
inability of the concessionaire to reach                    competition for the project. The successful bidder,
financial close, (ii) international financial               however, declined to use the enhancement
markets not eager to invest in the project,                 instruments offered and requested the lowest capital
and (iii) inability of INVIAS to purchase                   contribution, thus increasing the project and
95 percent of the right-of-way.                            financial risk assumed. Although the project risks
to be borne by the concessionaire are still
reasonable (as otherwise they would have not been
subject to market testing), the financial risk is
larger than envisaged at project design. The CC
contains safeguards to reduce the risk of long
delays in reaching financial closure. The Bank
loan will not become effective until conditions for
commencement of construction are met Most of
.................................... ........................t  l..............................  ......... t h e.land    has 0alead   . .been  p
Delays in project completion due to (i) the       M         The combination of the following factors minimizes
inability of the concessionaire to control                 this risk: (i) the stringent prequalification
cost overruns, (ii) shortages of funds during               requirements that bidders have to meet in respect of
construction resulting from unforeseen                      financial strength, technical capacity and
increases in financing costs or delays in                   construction experience; (ii) the limited recourse
placing bonds, (iii) security unrest in                     nature of the project provides strong incentives for
project area or other force majeure events.                 controlling costs and imposes use of start-up
arrangements for stand-by funding and other
financial instruments (swaps, hedging) required by
lenders; and (iii) construction activities are located
in areas not exposed to political violence. The
tunnels impose substantial construction and
operation risks, but successfil bidder declined the
limited coverage offered in this respect during the
...............................................................................................  ..............................   ........ .... .............................................................................
Overall Risk Rating         S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
High visibility ofaprojectfailure.  The project entails the operation of about 570 km of a neuralgic
portion of the trunk road network, while previous concessions did not extend beyond 100 km.
Although the net economic benefits of the project appear robust, the project's high investment cost and
its reliance on the successful operation of the tunnels in the Tobiagrande-Pto. Salgar link, make it more
vulnerable and visible in the event of failure. The inclusion of the competitive route for the
construction section, where most of the investment is concentrated in, mitigates the risk of bail out by
Government. With the opening up of the economy, Colombia's economic players have increasingly
become convinced that the current infrastructure bottlenecks hinder economic growth, and are also
convinced that the removal of the main bottlenecks in the transportation system implies solutions
different from, and in many cases more costly than, those considered in the past. A first example in
this regard is the on-going Bogota - Villavicencio road improvement project, which uses costly viaducts
and tunnels to overcome the topographic difficulties that have for years severely reduced service levels
along the road.



Page 23
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
* Special conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and
the Bank are:
a)  (i) the minutes of commencement of the construction stage, as defined in Clause 1.1 of the CC
have been executed and delivered on behalf of INVIAS and the Concessionaire'; (ii) INVIAS shall
have submitted to the Bank a report, showing to the satisfaction of the Bank, that lNVIAS, the
Concessionaire, and each of the Technical Assistants are in compliance with all their respective
obligations under Clause 2.1 of the CC, and each of the Technical Agreements; and (iii) the list of
amicable settlers required under Clause 35.1 of the CC has been agreed upon between INVIAS
and the Concessionaire;
b)  (i) INVIAS has hired the services of an Interventor required for the purpose of Clause 39 of the
CC; (ii) the Concessionaire has made the payments required under Clause 39.5 of the CC; and
(iii) the terms of reference of the Interventor are in compliance with the CC2; and
c) all of the Technical Agreements have been executed and delivered in term and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
*  Prior to disbursement of Bank loan proceeds in respect of the second and third contribution the
Interventor, through INVIAS, shall have furnished to the Bank certifications that (i) INVIAS, the
Concessionaire and each of the Technical Assistants are in compliance with their respective obligations
under the CC or under the Technical Agreement; (ii) the biannual audit of the applicable Trust Account
performed in compliance with Clauses 5.9 and 5.22 of the CC, for the applicable six-month period next
preceding the date of the corresponding withdrawal application, provides an unqualified opinion on the
use of the Borrower's or INVIAS' finds deposited in the applicable Trust Account; and (iii) there are
no reasons to qua]lif said opinion for accounting variations or adjustments, if any, since the end of the
period covered by such audit and a date preceding by five working days the date of the withdrawal
application.
2. Other conditions (Loan Agreement between Republic of Colombia and the Bank)
* Procurement. To the extent that the Project shall be constructed and operated by a concessionaire who
has been awarded the CC on the basis of international competitive bidding procedures in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits, the goods, works and services required for the construction of the Project shall be procured in
accordance with the applicable procedures of the said concessionaire.
The CC stipulates that prior to signing the Commencement of Construction Stage Minutes, the Concessionaire must (i)
submit the required performance guarantees, (ii) sign all of the implementation agreements (Technical Assistant Agreements)
stipulated in the CC, (iii) establish the Trust, (iv) reach financial closure, and (v) submit the final designs. On the side of
INVLAS, it must (i) transfer to the concessionaire 95% of the right-of-way needed for construcfion of the Tobiagrande - Pto.
Salgar road link (including all of the land already required by the Concessionaire for the first year of construction), (ii) transfer
to the concessionaire for operation the existing road sections which are part of the Project (with the exception of the Pto.
BoyacA - San Alberto section that will be transferred on January 1, 1999); and (iii) deposit the initial capital contribution into
the Trust Account.
2 The terms of reference cover, inter alia, to the satisfaction of the Bank the supervision and control of (i) execution of the
construction of the Tobiagrande - Puerto Salgar road link and other project works in accordance with the CC, (ii)
Concessionaire's compliance with the technical specifications and performance standards set forth in the CC for construction,
maintenance and operation of the Project road network, (iii) compliance by the parties to the CC with the requirements of the
project's Environmental Mlanagement Plan (comprising also the Resettlement Plan and the Social Assistance Program), (iv)
uses of project funds and audits both according to requirements stipulated in the CC, and (v) verification of Project revenues as
stipulated in the CC for the purpose of determining the progress made towards meeting the Total Expected Revenue target



Page 24
* Flow of Funds. The Borrower shall not submit withdrawal applications in respect of Loan proceeds
allocated to Categories 2 or 3 of the Loan Agreement, before each of the Second and Third
Contribution, respectively, has been deposited in the Trust Account(s) or without attaching thereto the
evidence required under the conditions of disbursement above.
Other conditions in the Project Agreement between INVIAS and the Bank:
* Implementation. INVIAS: (a) shall take all such action on its part as shall be required to caffy out the
Project and to cause the Concessionaire to caffy out the Project, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project as stipulated in the
CC; (b) (i) shall comply with all its obligations under the Environmental Management Plan, the
Resettlement Plan and the Social Assistance Program in respect of the Project, and (ii) shall exercise its
right under the CC to cause the Concessionaire and each of the Technical Assistants to comply with
their respective obligations under the CC, the applicable Technical Agreement, and under the aforesaid
Plans and Program; (c) except as otherwise agreed with the Bank, (i) shall not assign, amend, revoke,
abrogate or fail to enforce the CC or any of the aforesaid Plans and Program or any provision thereof;
and (ii) shall cause the concessionaire not to assign, amend, revoke, abrogate or permit the assignment
or fail to enforce any Technical Agreement.
* Monitoring, Review and Reporting. INVIAS: (i) shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon
(Annex 1), the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of its objectives; (ii) prepare under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank on or about August 31 in each
year, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities during the twelve-month
period preceding the date of said report, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of its objectives during the period following
such date; and (iii) review with the Bank by September 30, the report and thereafter take all measures
agreed upon based on the conclusions and recommendations of the report and the Bank's views on the
matter;
* lNVIAS shall prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not
later than six months after the Project completion date (December 31, 2002) or the date on which the
minutes of commencement of the operation stage are signed in accordance with Clause 2.2 of the CC,
whichever is earlier, a plan for the future operation of the project.
*  INVIAS shall, (i) at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under the Project Agreement, the performance of the
Concessionaire's obligation under the CC and of each Technical Assistant's obligations under the
applicable Technical Agreement, and (ii) promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project.
*  Resettlement. If during the life of the CC, an unforeseen population resettlement is required from any
site where Project works will be carried out (other than the resettlement(s) specifically foreseen under
the Resettlement Plan of the Environmental Impact Assessment Study): (i) INVIAS shall submit to the
Bank an ad-hoc resettlement plan for the population in question, prepared following the principles and
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank contained in the documents titled "INVIAS Resettlement Policy"
and "Methodology for the Assessment of Properties Affected by Road Construction" applied to the
Resettlement Plan under the Environmental Management Plan; and (ii) after receiving Bank
confinnation that the ad-hoc plan submitted is consistent with such principles and guidelines, INVIAS
shall execute, and cause the Concessionaire and each of the applicable Technical Assistants to execute
the resettlement in question in accordance with the corresponding ad-hoc plan, and shall cause the
Concessionaire and each such Technical Assistant not to commence any work unless INVIAS has



Page 25
given the corresponding authorization after being satisfied, and having satisfied the Bank, that all the
corresponding steps under the ad-hoc plan in question have been taken.
* Financial. JNVIAS shall: (i) maintain and cause the Concessionaire to maintain records and,
exclusively in the case of the Concessionaire, separate accounts adequate to reflect their respective
operations and financial condition in respect of the Project; and (ii) cause the Trustee to maintain
similar records and separate accounts adequate to reflect the transactions and other entries in each
Trust Account.
* INVIAS shall: (i) have its records in respect of the Project, for each fiscal year audited in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; and (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available but in any case not later than four months after
the end of such year the report of such audit.
* INVIAS shall: (i) exercise its right under the CC to ensure that the Concessionaire and the Trustee
have the Concessionaire's accounts and each Trust Account, respectively, audited for each fiscal year
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, certified copies of all information on accounting matters to be
furnished to INVlAS under Clauses 5.9 and 5.22 of the CC; and (iii) take all such action as shall be
necessary or convenient to ensure that the services of the Interventor shall be available until the
termination of the CC.
* INVIAS (a) shall exercise its rights under Clause 2.1.1(v) and 6.2 of the CC, or under the laws of the
Borrower, in respect of (i) the Concessionaire, or (ii) the performance by a Trustee, both in regard to
each Trust Account, and especially INVIAS' ability to recover any amount unduly paid by the Trustee
to the Concessionaire; and (ii) if any amount is recovered, INVIAS shall promptly inform the Bank, so
as to enable the Bank to deternine whether the amount in question shall be refunded to the Bank and, in
such case, whether said amount shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Loan Agreement.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[/] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [] Not applicable.
[v/] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. The Concession Contract (CC) was awarded in November 1997 and signed in
December 1997.
[v/] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[l/] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
INVIAS and the Concessionaire have yet to meet the conditions stipulated in the CC for signing of the
minutes for commencement of construction stage. Among these obligations, the concessionaire must reach
financial close and enter into Technical Agreements with some of its shareholders for the undertaking of
certain joint and several obligations with the concessionaire.



P4e 26
L Compliance with Bank Policies
V] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:
Jos6 Luis Irigoyen             Danny Leipziger (ndr6s So lim
Task Manager              Director SMU (LCS P)        Country Director CMU (LCC4C)



Page 27
Annex 1
Toll Road Concession Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Sunmmary         Key Performance Indicators'         Monitoring and          Critical Risks and
Supervision             Assumptions
CAS Objective             By year 2007...                                            (CAS Objective to Bank
Integrate the country,    * freight tariffs for transportation of key  * Statistics DANE  Mission)
facilitate trade, and support    products cost 15% less in real tenns  and Transport  * Colombia's macro-economic
private-sector-led growth by  than the average Col$48,000 and     Master Plan          conditions remain favorable;
expanding and improving      Col$46,200 per ton between Bogota-   * Periodic tariff  * Govermnent continues
infiastncture services       Santa Marta and Bogota Medellin,     surveys published    committed to opening up
respectively, in 1997;              by COLFECAR           the economy and increasing
* the number of bus departures from  * Statistics Bogota    private sector participation
Bogota to main destinations (Atlantic  Bus Transport      in infrastructure.
Coast, Medellin, Bucaramanga and    Terminal            * Infrastructure projects
Manizales) through La Dorada /Pto.    * Audited traffic   support economic growth
Salgar increased by 70% over the    counts El Vino-Pto.    and provide equitable
730,000 annual departures in 1996;  Salgar-SanAlberto     access to the
* traffic volumes on corridor increased  Road Concession;   poorer/disadvantages groups
by 100% above the average 5,200   * Network statistics,   * Resources released from
daily vehicles using the existing road  lNVIAS            public provision of
between Villeta and Honda in 1996;                        infrastrcture are effectively
* share of private sector participation in                  used in social sectors and
financing and managing roads                              other activities in GOC's
increased from 10% in 1997 to about                       strategy for poverty
35% of national network,                                  reduction
Project Development       By end- 2002 ...                                          (Development Objectives to
Objectives                * vehicle operating costs on the     * HDM analyses        CAS Objective)
Improve transport conditions    upgraded corridor from Tobiagrande  performed by     * Current trend in
along a strategic highway    to Puerto Salgar reduced by 50% for  lNVIAS Planning      international trade to/from
corridor linking Bogota with    trucks from those in 1996;        Office;              the ports on the Caribbean
Medellin and the ports on  * travel time between Bogota and Pto.   * Road usage surveys    sea continues;
the north coast, through an  Salgar reduced to an average of 2.5  performed by       * Traffic growth along the
effective and sustainable    hours for cars and buses from an    INVIAS road           corridor not restrained by
private-public partnership.  average of 4 hours in 1996;          administrators;      (1) deterioration of
* the level of service (expressed by the   * Audit of concession  economic activity, (2)
volume/capacity ratio) on existing  records on traffic    changes in traffic patterns
road from Villeta to La Dorada       volumes.             on trunk road network, or
increased as a result of deviating                        (3) INVlAS' untimely
truck traffic onto the new highway,                       completion or poor
* a competent private operator                              maintenance of road links
continues effectively operating the                       connecting with project
corridor, providing road users with
modern security and emergency
services under a viable concession;
* about 200 Ha. of endangered sub-
Andean forest out of the 270 Ha. in
the region preserved.
Project Outputs           By end-2002 ...                                            (Outputs to Development
* Key links built or      * 68 km of a high-standard two-lane  * Road usage surveys  Objectives)
upgraded along the        highway between Tobiagrande and      performed by       * Ramp-up traffic
selected corridor to      Pto. Salgar built;                   INVlAS road           development during early
reduce transport costs;  * 380 km of existing highways         administrators        years of concession not
* A competent private       rehabilitated and maintained in    * iNVlAS' approval      restrained by reasons stated
project company set to    compliance with high performance     of the Construction    above;
mobilize private equity   standards;                           Completion Report  * Users do not oppose to
and debt through more   * a (first) reserve of sub-Andean forest  prepared by the    inflation adjustments to toll
favorable financing       established under private            concessionaire       rates, even if increases are
structures to finance     administration in support of policy to   * Audit of Project  higher than those on the
'Baseline and targeted values should be showni, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-term, end of project and full impact



Page 28
Narrative Summary          Key Performance 1ndicators'         Monitoring and          Critical Risks and
Supervision             Assumptions
improvements and          compensate for enviromnental         Entity Financial      national highway system
manage operations;        impacts of road projects;            Statements and     * Security conditions in
Strengthened institutional                                     Project Accounts      project area do not severely
capacity for INVIAS to                                       * Signing of Minutes    interfere with project
prepare future road                                            for Commencement    construction and operation.
concession projects and                                        of Operation Stage.  * The concessionaire's ability
put into effect key                                                                  to comply with the
policies for sustainable                                                             standards stipulated in the
development of road                                                                  CC, and the project design
corridors;                                                                           (e.g., the tunnels), do not
constrain the operation or
performance of the project,
* Fluctuations of foreign
exchange and interest rates
do not exceed debt service
rcapacity.
Project Components        Project Inputs:                                            (Components to Outputs)
Private Project Company   * Turnkey contract for project works  * Signing of         * Project start-up not delayed
selected through             (US$496.6m);                         Concession           by the inability of the
international competitive  * Development, project management      Contract between     concessionaire to reach
bidding to:                  and government supervision           INVLAS and           financial close, international
* undertake civil works to  (US$22.5m)                            selected Project     financial markets not eager
build a new road and    * Financing fees/expenses, and interest  Company.            to invest m the project, or
improve existing road     during construction (US$53.2m);    * Trustee and           the inability of INVAS to
sections along the      Financial Plan:                        independent           purchase the right-of- way.
selected corridor,      * Government capital contribution      experts/advisors   * Project completion not
* provide services to       supported by the Bank loan           appointed by the      hampered or significantly
maintain and operate the  (US$137.1m)                          concessionaire and    delayed by (i) security
road corridor under a   * Private Equity and Debt (US$395.lm)    INVIAS              unrest in project area or
long-term concession.   * Net project revenue generation from  respectively,         other force majeure events,
* mobilize financing         operations (US$40.1m)             * Signing of Minutes    (ii) concessionaire
(including all reserves,                                       for Commencement    incapable of managing cost
liquidity requirements                                         of Constuction        increases, or (iii) shortages
and considering                                                Stage.                of funds during construction
government financial                                                                 period resulting from
support) for the above                                                               increases in financing costs
works and services and                                                               or delays in placing bonds.
for independent experts
and advisors required by
INVIAS to monitor/audit
the project's company
perfornance under the
concession.



Page 29
Annex 2
Toll Road Concession Project
Project Description
The project consists of the following: (a) operation and maintenance of the existing two-lane road from El Vino to
Villeta (about 51 1m). The section connects with Bogota through a two- and four-lane highway operated under a
separate concession; (b) rehabilitation, operation and maintenance of the existing road from Villeta to Honda (about
72 km); (c) construction, operation and maintenance of a new highway from Tobiagrande to Puerto Salgar (about
68.4 kIn); (d) operation and maintenance of the existing road from Honda to San Alberto (about 380 km); and (e)
establishment and management of a natural reserve of sub-Andean forest in support of a policy to compensate for
the environmental impact of the project. INVIAS will purchase about 200 ha. of land along the Rio Negro Canyon
for this purpose. The project includes the basic infrastructure needed to operate the reserve through private
administration. The project's components have been given in concession for a specified period of time (24 years,
including four for construction) and under the terms of a concession contract (CC).
Project Component 1 - US$496.6 million (Project Works)
This component comprises the project works to be undertaken during the construction phase of the concession. The
works entail: (i) rehabilitation of the Villeta-Honda road within 24 months, including an asphalt concrete overlay
and improvements to sections in critical condition due to recurring landslides and drainage deficiencies; (ii)
construction of a new two-lane highway from Tobiagrande to Puerto Salgar, with a total length of 68.4 km,
including about 15 tunnels and about 37 bridges and viaducts; and (iii) miscellaneous repaving works needed to
maintain the level of service along the road network assigned to the concessionaire and build the infrastructure
needed to collect tolls and operate the natural reserve along the Rio Negro.
The works will be undertaken by the concessionaire's Technical Assistant --a construction consortium formed by
some of the shareholders of the concessionaire-- under a fixed-term, fixed-price contract (Technical Agreement).
INVIAS will contribute the equivalent of US$137. 1 million to defray, in part, the costs of the works under this
component. INVIAS will deposit the above amount in the applicable Trust Accounts; the three annual
contributions requested by the successful bidder and stipulated in the CC, are as follows: US$37.1 million during
pre-construction stage, US$40 million in 1998 upon commencement of construction of the Tobiagrande-Pto. Salgar
road link, and US$60 million in 1999. According to the CC, government funds and toll revenues collected on
existing road sections can only be used to finance expenditures in respect of: (i) construction of the Tobiagrande-
Pto. Salgar road, (ii) rehabilitation of the Villeta-Honda road, and (iii) maintenance and operation of the existing
project road sections. The project Trustee will make payments to the Technical Assistant on the basis of monthly
certification of completed work, subject to the conditions and payment retentions of the turnkey contract.
Project Component 2 - US$22.5 million (Project Development, Management and Government Supervision)
This component comprises (i) all the studies and services needed to develop and manage the project, finalize the
engineering designs, and assure quality control of construction and operation activities undertaken under the
concession during the pre-construction and construction phases (about US$18.5 million); and (ii) external
supervision services to be hired by INVIAS to oversee the execution of the concession contract. The terms of
reference of the Interventor cover, inter alia, supervising the execution of the construction of the Tobiagrande -
Puerto Salgar road link and other project works in accordance with the CC, monitoring concessionaire compliance
with technical specifications and performance standards set forth in the CC for construction, maintenance and
operation of the project road network; monitoring compliance by the parties to the CC with the project's
Environmental Management Plan (comprising also the Resettlement Plan and the Social Assistance Progran);
auditing project funds; and verifying project revenues as stipulated in the CC for the purpose of deternining the
progress made towards meeting the Total Expected Revenue target. INVIAS will hire the Interventor prior to
starting the construction phase.



Page 30
Project Component 3 - US$53.2 million (Financing costs)
This component comprises project expenditures related to financing fees, financing expenses and interest during
construction needed to mobilize the private financing. The concessionaire has indicated in its bid that it will obtain
a mixture of local and foreign debt financing.
Summary of Concession Design
Legal Framework. Laws 80 (Public Procurement Law) and 105 (Transport Law), both enacted in 1993, form
together the legal basis for the concession. The concession contract would grant the franchise-holder the right to
build the highway between Tobiagrande and Puerto Salgar and operate the project road network throughout the
concession period. Upon termination of the concession, the facility will be returned to lNVIAS. At that time, the
up-front capital contribution will be reimbursed in kind, as INVIAS will be able to either invite bids for a new
concession or operate the project itself and collect toll revenues.
RiskAllocation. The design and structure of the concession, as offered during the bidding stage, attempted to strike
a balance in the distribution of the project's risks among the sponsors, the lenders, and lNVIAS. The distribution
of risks is summarized in Table 1.
Table 1. Initial Risk Allocation by Institution and Project Phase as offered at bidding stage
Investors &             Under Bank
Concession Phase                 Risk/Obligation               INVIAS    Lenders   Insurance       PRG
Pre-construction Land Acquisition/Right-of-Way              V
Environmental Approvals                     V
GOC Financing Contribution(l) ).'
Project Design (Tunnels)                    V
Project Design (Roads, Bridges)                        V
Debt & Equity Financing                                V
Concession Term  Political Force Majeure (2)
Changes in Law (3)                          V 
Expropriation                               I          V
Natural Force Majeure (4)                              V 
Currency Devaluation
Currency Inconvertibility
Construction Cost Overrun (roads-bridges)                           V/
Cost Overrun (tunnels)(5)                              /
Construction delaystproject completion                 /
Operations Tort Liability                                          V
Toll Evasion                                           I
Traffic Level (years 1-9)M6                4,(1)
Traffic Level (years 9+)(7)                            V
Toll Adjustment                             "                                  V
Operations & Maintenance
1/ Actual amounts or level of comfort subject to bidding.
2/As defined in the CC, political force majeure refers to "Extraordinary Excusable Events" which comprise terrorism, sabotage, guerrilla
acts, war (declared or undeclared), civil disorder, national and regional strikes, coups d'etat, finds (archaeological-mineral-treasures), and
delay in the award of, or impossibility of awarding, project permits.
3/ As defined in the CC, "Changes in Law" events are defined to comprise. (i) rights granted and obligations imposed by the
Environmental License; (ii) imposition of taxes and levies on the collection of tolls; and (iii) laws restricting toll collection.
4/ As defined in the CC, natural force majeure refers to "Ordinary Excusable Events" borne exclusively by the concessionaire, which
comprise: Acts of God, employee and sub-contractors strikes, earthquakes and hurricanes, fires, floods, landslides, scarcity of materials
and goods needed for construction & operations, road accidents, interruption in the supply of electricity.
I/ Cost sharing arrangement to compensate for additional works in tunnel construction due to changes in geologic conditions (see Box 3).
6/ Minimum revenue support, limited in size to caps set forth in the bidding documents and in duration to "ramp-up" period (see Box 2).



Pagr 31
'I Bidders were asked to bid on the Total Expected Revenue, upon which the concession will revert to INVIAS even if the contractual
concession term has not yet expired. If the Total Expected Revenue is not achieved by the end of the concession term, ]NVI4AS would
have the option of either partially compensating the concessionaire for the non-realized portion of the Total Expected Revenue, or
extending the concession term for one year for a maximum of five years, even if the Total Expected Revenue has not been achieved.
Table 2 summarizes a comparison of key government undertakings in earlier concessions and the project, as offered
at the bidding stage and the resulting allocation based on the bidding outcome.
Table 2: Comparison of Government undertakings in Colombian Road Concessions
Government Undertaking            Earlier Concessions                     Project                   Project
in Colombia                     (Bidding Stage)         (Bidding Outcome)
Capital Contribution       For large projects exceeding         Up front capital contribution   Lowest
financial viability, part of         during construction stage in
investment undertaken with public   the form of a grant. The
funding outside the concession, and   specific amount subject to
transferred to concessionaire for   bidding.
.                   ~~~~~~~exploitation upon completion.
...............................C. -o. s  t... . n...c............a. s. e--. . .  ................................................................... ...................................... ................................ .........................................................
Construction Cost Increases:
- Roads and bridges:  Full compensation of cost increases   No coverage granted
up to 30% of bid cost, and 75% of
cost increases between 30-50%
over bid cost.
- Tunnels:  Initially no tunnels considered      Limited to geologic risk.      Not taken by
under concession (undertaken        First 20% to be absorbed by    successful bidder.
outside concession)                 concessionaire.
...   .................    ................i...................................................................................................................................................... ....................... ................................................... 
Minimum Revenue Support:
- Size and duration:  Historic traffic throughout         Ceilings (targeted at debt).   Not taken by
concession term                     Nine years out of 24 year      successful bidder.
term (ramp-up period).
- Form of compensation  (i) term extension; (ii) toll increase;  Cash payment
.. .. .                              . .       .     .    ..(iii. cash paymnent
Maximum Revenue or         50-50% share of additional revenue   Capped at total expected       Highest.
Recapture Mechanism        over 125% of historic traffic        revenue by successful bidder.
Toll Rates and Toll Regulation System. The toll road will operate as an open systern, with tolls collected in five
toll booths whose location has been predetermined by INVIAS. MOT has already approved the initial toll rates and
the formulae for their subsequent adjustment, which is based on the Consumer Price Index (Decree of December
18, 1996). Initial toll rates for seven vehicle categories defined in the CC are listed in Table 3. For existing road
links, these toll rates are on average about 20 percent higher than those currently charged by INVIAS on national
roads not operated by the private sector l. For the new road link, toll rates are about double the average national
tolls, but represent contributions from users varying between 9 and 36 percent of expected savings in operating
costs. Overall, the proposed tariff system reflects values above short-term marginal prices and sufficient to cover
the concessionaire's investment costs, net of GOC's up-front capital contribution (which is largely covered through
other road-user charges as noted in last paragraph of Section 13).
The CC gives the Concessionaire flexibility to manage the toll rates to maxinmize road use and project revenues,
provided that these rates do not exceed the stipulated ceilings. This would allow the concessionaire to apply
commercial practices aimed at capturing a larger consumer surplus and user preferences (such as charging a lower
rate for certain types of vehicles, or for off-peak periods, or offering discounts to organizations or users that pay in
advance for a certain number of trips). Toilgates on existing roads would be transferred to the concessionaire for
operation upon meeting the conditions for commencement of construction of the Tobiagrande-Puerto Salgar road.
National roads managed by INVIAS are subject to tolls. The tariff is set annually to cover lNVIAS' rehabilitation and maintenance costs.



Page 32
Table 3. Toll Rates by Vehide Category and Road Section
Vehicle Category                         Toll aspaid at gate (Col$ of 1997)
Section 1 (1)    Section 2 (2)    Section 3 (3)  Section 4 (4)
.~~~~~(51km. .  (72 km.?. (68.4 kmn?                                       (380khm.2
1   Cars and pick-ups                2,500           1,600          4,500            2,000
2   Buses and vans                   2,900           1,800           5,100           3,000
3   Small 2-axle trucks              2,900           1,800           5,100           3,000
4   Large 2-axle trucks              3,000           1,900           5,100           3,100
5   3- and 4-axle trucks             7,600           4,900          13,400           7,000
6   5-axle trucks                    9,400           6,500          17,500           9,300
7   6-axle trucks and larger         11,500          7,400          20,000           10,500
' One tollgate located between El Vino and Tobiagrande.
(2) One tollgate located between Villeta and Honda. The toll rates similar to those charged on other national roads operated by INVIAS.
(3) One tollgate located in El Bosque, between Tobiagrande and Pto. Salgar. Starts operating upon finalizing construction of Section 3.
(4) Three tollgates located between Honda and San Alberto. The toll rates are based on the ones charged by lNVIAS on the Troncal del
Magdalena road.
Maximum Revenue Regulation. The maximum revenue that the concessionaire is entitled to (not guaranteed) is
capped at the Total Expected Revenue bid by the successful bidder. Upon reaching this target, the concessionaire
has to revert the concession to INVIAS even if the contractual term has not yet expired. The Total Expected
Revenue indirectly permits INVIAS a share in the project's revenue upside '. An upside in project revenue would
accelerate the attainment of the Total Expected Revenue target, bid by the successful bidder, upon which the
concession reverts back to INVIAS (even if earlier than the original concession term). In the event that project
revenues exceed the projections, an accelerated termination of the concession would enable INVIAS to award a
new concession for the same project on more favorable terms for operating the road and financing future capacity
expansions. The new concession would rely on established traffic patterns, a key element in attracting more
favorable financing terms, and would therefore require minimal, if any, cash or revenue support from INVIAS.
The Total Expected Revenue target would also enable flexibility and transparency in the event that a renegotiation
of the contractual terms, or an advanced termination of the concession, are necessary to improve the economic
performance of the project2.
Selection of the Project Sponsors / Concessionaire
Bidding Conditions. INVIAS selected the project sponsors/concessionaire through international competitive
bidding, following procedures satisfactory to the Bank. The process started in March 1997 with an invitation to
prequalify prospective bidders. Eight international groups were prequalified in June 1997, meeting the technical
and financial requirements set for this purpose in the prequalification document. The bidding process followed. As
stated in the bidding documents, bidders were asked to quote in their bids: (i) the annual capital contributions
requested from Government; (ii) the cost of 11 work activities associated with geologic risk in the construction of
tunnels (based on unit costs determined by bidders and work quantities provided by INVIAS in the Bill of
Quantities); (iii) the amounts requested in respect of the Minimum Revenue Support for each calendar semester
Each road project that is deemed to need revenue support from the host govermment or the implementing agency may require a
different approach in the way such support is structured to ensure that government also has a share or "recaptures" potential revenue
upsides. The mechanism depends largely on the applicable concession regulations, toll rates and traffic projections, and the trade-off that
the implementing agency is willing to make between recapturing potential excess revenue and giving the most appropriate incentives to
the concessionaire to ensure the optimum performance of the project throughout the concession term.
2 The initial concession design contained two additional mechanisms during the revenue protection period (if taken by the successful
bidder): (i) all payment made by INVIAS under its Minimum Revenue Support obligation would count as part of the Total Expected
Revenue in calculating the point in time when the concession would revert to INVIAS; and (ii) any income exceeding the bidder's
Minimum Revenue Support (MRS) quoted for a semester would be accounted to an Accumulated Revenue Surplus Account Thus, the
concessionaire would have to tap into any previously accumulated revenue before INVIAS is asked to make any compensation. While
there is no actual excess revenue cash transferred to INVLAS, this mechanism allows INVIAS to take full advantage of all revenue earned
by the concessionaire in excess of the MRS. As such, knowing that they have access to all the revenue up-side, bidders may be prepared
to quote a lower MRS level, just sufficient to cover their estimated costs of debt financing and project operating expenses.



Page 33
during the first nine years of the concession, if any; (iv) the maximum  portion of this Minimum  Revenue Support
that would become available to the concessionaire through the Liquidity Mechanism (to be funded by a Bank loan),
if any; and (v) the Total Expected Revenue that as concessionaire plans to realize during the concession term.
Items (i), (iii) and (iv) were subject to caps set forth in the bidding documents.
The bidding document required that the CC be awarded to the bid that represented the least expected cost to the
government. A bid seeking less support from government would reduce government exposure to contingent
obligations and, thus, have a lower cost for GOC. Thus, the comparison of the four bids received on October 15,
1997 accounted for the expected cost to GOC resulting from each of the bidding variables mentioned above, as
follows: the amounts quoted by bidders (all in present value terms with the exception of the total expected revenue
target) were multiplied by the respective weighting factors stated in the bidding documents, and added to determine
the total expected cost to government. The weighting factors represented the probability of GOC incurring in a loss
due to the exposure resulting from the obligation.'
Table 4: Outcome of the bidding process
BiddingVariable                                      Bidder I"          Bidder 2   Bidder 3        Bidder4
GOC  contributon (grant)   '  '''''''''''   ''''''.''''  '''.'.'''''''.7--....-.----...----.-
GOC Share of Tunnel Contingencies (to be supported by the Bank)                                                     I /
Minimum Revenue Support                                                                              I              I               /
Liquidity Mechanism  (supported by the Bank)                                                                        I               I
Bank Partial Risk Guarantee                                                                                         /               I
17 Successful bidder.
The competitive selection of the project private sponsors is an integral part of the project. Although the successful
bidder declined to use the enhancement instruments offered by INVIAS (some of them to be supported by the
Bank), they were key to increasing competition for the project. Boxes 2 to 4 briefly describe how the proposed
Bank backstopping of INVIAS' contingent obligations was initially structured, and what coverage was sought for
the proposed Partial Risk Guarantee offered in the bidding documents.
Bo . ...... . ... ., .......,,,.v, r.e. ',, ..de .     ......11 ..    .. ......   ...
., .Xli , .~~....   g-.a - ., . ......      .c. .......W   
Box ~  Prpose  covrageunde   Patial -Ris  Guan aee:-:-::
.................................... ...................... ........... ....~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~........
.Mechaisrundr     CC, Debt -SerieRser)  the -urte wudpoet pjec wendesbidodasaait.
,de,b, ser e         .            ,, vce                                                  ....l d   aie  ,,te  . b  h.e C, e.d. .....  the
G.ars .te. As   rrently define  itbe CC, the. ......            'i..       -. ... .be cvrd... ..h......e. .P........ -
*     XOT not nau thorizing..... ..the...  pr i...........   .......... te
M    Copnstoib  IN I     foi evnt - of politialfoc  majeue  nacrac    ihCas   0o  h    Ci~
''r ...&...le'.s.. n'~~~~~~~~~~~..               '    >.''-- -.- ...-..--..  ..-- ....    .....          ..........
"Et AoriniEcsal EM vns'.. .utW                   4
*    Compensation for peesible changes .                                        Rotelwmht-yadesl afc  h   pr.e  ':5 aIiytoclet os 
.....    . .   . ... ........   g .  . .. .....    .    . . ..   . ..    . .........    ...   ....   .. . . . . ....   ..... ....   . ...  ..   ...    . .......
..cc''orda cewith Claus       . 2d. ...... .f..  . .. . r              . .in  L "th.   f.. in   s   io s  a .............   .... .. . ...... .i................... n........
..........~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-t bo dh, ....,......... .                           .. .i ... .......  
envir nmen,thel stnars impob t ion of tes     o the coar cion0.41 ... .... tolls,"oreJaw  rsit in  'ntrc*              .
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ . !!!'!  .::::::::  ...::!:::  :  :!'':  :   ...::''.,!!::.-'''!!!!:::.!':!!!'''. :":!!!' ':':!!!'.:: I'':!!!':'  :   !!!::  ::::!!!!  :  :  :!!!!  :!'
................... ............... ............... ............ ........... ..... ................................. ............................................................ ..................................................................................
IAs such, the governmnent capital contribution would have a weighting factor of 1.0, since the amnount requested by the successfull
bidder will become an actual cost. The remaining variables would have factors lower than 1.0, since due to their contingent nature it is
uncertain whether goverment will incur in a cost. Thus, the weightig factors for the latter variables were detemiined on the basis of
statistical analysis as follows: each variable was assumed to follow a normal probability curve (with the exception of tunnel costs which
was assigned a skewed distribution) using typical variation parameters suggested by the consultants; the values expected from the
financial model developed by GOC with its financial advisors were assumed as the mean or the most expected value for the variable in
question; finally, the probability of incuning a loss because of the coverage, represented by the area of the probability curve within the
boundaries  of the comfort offered in the bidding documents, became the respective weightng factor. The resulting factors were then
converted into percentages, so the capital contribution received a factor of 69 percent, the cost of the eleven items for tunnel construction
12 percent, the Minimum Revenue Support 10 percent, the Liquidity Mechanism 6 percent, and the Total Expected Revenue 3 percent.



a... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . .
E     .........                                                                   US$
..... ...... .... ... .... .. ...... ..... .. .. ..    . ........... .. .. ...0                           itI                             ....A. ... ... ... ..
~~~~                                 -~~~~~~~~~~     0      0  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  0  0)    0       0)    0                                                   .....0.....
..     ...    ............  Na    :H_ R iO                                                                                                                                             % it
it  ......   ... .           :         ... ....i
.                                                                                 I.  .   .. .......                                                            ....  .  .      ..   .. .....
A  it                                                                                                                                                                                       t        .......... 
..              .      . . . . .                                                                                                                   . . . . .i
it                                                                                                                          it                    it~~~~~~~~~~~~~
it  N  it             it                                                                                                                  it
9!                                                                                                                                                                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i ..  ........  ti
it   it                        i                                -t
ii   ~~~~~ ~~~iRi
it  :: ::   a w   ;   . ::-                      :             .   t  i                                                                          . . . . . . . .
iti                                                                                                                                                                         . . ... .   .   .
it             t                                                                                                                                                                                                 i
it                                                                it~~~~~-   it.....                                                                    ....i
iii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
it~~~ it                                                                                                                                                        i
it              i                                                                                                                                                                                                  itK
2:  it                                                                                                                                      ..   ..........  ma~~~~~~~~~8 ~  
it  it                 it       ::t~  a                                                                                                                  it.                        .     .A. .  .. .
it                                 i:  :                                                                                                                                                                  .. .......       .  ..    .



C    D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ....    ........................................
.................................. :::A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ........    ...............                                                                                                                 .       ..         .......   .   ....
C D                                                    ......................                             ......    .....    .                                                                                  .......................    ....    ......                                           ......    ................    .....                                       .............................
.........    .                                               .                                                                  ..................
HS                                                                                                                                                  . . ....
..........                        ...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ...                  ...             ..                   ...
...........                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...........       .
0
rA
..              ....           ....                    ...
ia:                                                                                                                                                                                                   N                                                     N
a
rA                                                                                                           ..........
...               ....             ...                ....
:H
..        ......                .......                             ...                      .                .    ......
:HV                    :                                                                 ....                 ...... . ..                    .                      .. .......                                                                                .1                                                                                      ..             ...              ..  ........
a                  a                a.               ..                 ...
...             ....           ....                   ...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ..........
.               ....             ....               ....           ....                                                                                       ...                ..                   .              ...              ..
0   0
..........
..........                                ..                 ...
.                  ..              ..           .....                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ....               ...                ..........
...                                                                                                                                                                                  .                               .........
.....                    .......;                                           -:                ::              .::                ::                                                                          .7 -                                                                                                                                                                          .              ...                ...
aa             :::.              .::              ;:                                                       ::             :::                 :::                   .        .        :
...............                                                                                                                                                                                                  ..........                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a
..        ..........                      ..               ....                                                                                                                                                                                ...........
.....    .....                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .    ..               ....             ...   .......                       ..                       ..
ck                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ........                   ....                 .. .....                                                                                     F
aa                                    am
............
...........
........... V%.
.               ..                 ..             ....             ....                          ....                                    ...                ....
S                                      o   re,                                                  .J, o                                                                                             -                                                         -. Z                                                                                                                                                                                              .1  ...   +                                       .
a
Eit-                                                                                      :m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ...                   ..........                   .....  ......                        .    .... ....
.. .. ... ....
E:
--4                                                      o                                                                            Rm                                                                                       ..   ...   ........                                                                                                    aa
...              .    ...    .......                  ...
C.,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .
-     a                                                                                                                                                                                .                ..               .                  ..             ............                                                                                                                                                                       ..........
..    ......    ..                                                                           a
G                                     0  CD                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
...              ....                                      ........                    ...                  ..                                                                                      aa
..                   ..             ...........                                                                           ...
0
..........                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .
,P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .
........    ........                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .at                                                                        .               ...            ..........                                              ..               ..               .              .   ..........                           .
. ... ............
- M                .qm                  qm             ....                   ..          ...                 .....              ....        ....
..    .....                                     ..              ....
. . . . ..........
....                                  ..              ....                                                ............
O" 0. 0
.. .. .. ... ... ......... ..
CRD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                az
a      r,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ............                        ....             .....      .
a        l                                                                                 ... .....                     ....              ....
..........                       ....::..              ...          -                                    ...
..              ...........                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ....                  ..            ..........
..                  ...              ...                                                                                                                                                          .....                ...             .....   ......                                                                                                                                                   E                                ............
V:
...               ....                ..              ............
..........                     ....                 ...........
El                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .....              ....                     .
CD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
..........   .                                                                                                            ..                    ..             ....                                                                                                                                                                ....            .                                  ..              ... I
'C.n,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ..               .......  .   .
:::=i.::
..........                   ...                                                                                                                                                              ....              ....                ..                ...
4         .    w i                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ..            ....             .......                             . .                ::                 ::                                               I.                                                                   W
..                ...            ............                                                                                                                                                                  .      .....     ....
............                         ......   ...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I   ..              ...
C,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .
tt               :z               U:                 iu
..........                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .
..........                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ...               ....................                              ....               ...
.................... ...
.............                                                                                                a; .             ...   ....   .I.
a                                                  m:
. ... ...........
...                  -:             .::              -                .     :            .;              ..   ..   .......
eD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ::::::::%:
...........                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ............
.................   .                              ..               ...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .
::::              ::                :::                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ....           I 
..........                     ....                ..                                                       ..                .             ............                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .
O                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...                   ....                                                                  .
Cr                 CD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .
..                     ...                .......... .                                                                                                                                                                     :::                  :            :;.:               :::                ..                 ::                              .                                                                          V                                                     ::               :AE::
...               ..................                                                                                                                                                                                    ..........
-11               .                      ....    ............
..             ............                            ..................                               ....
...   ........                                                                                                                                                     ..........
...                   .            .... . ......                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ...               ....   .......
..........                     ...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...               ...             ....
...   ......                 ....
C D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ...........                     ....                  ...........                            v                          !ii                                                        :            :::                :                ::            :
.............                                                            .                  .   ......                    ....                  ...........                      ...........                       ...
h cr
.                    ..              ..........                                                                              I.        I                                                        I.                 ...                ..               ..             ............
...........                                                                                                                                                                       a                                                                       .                    ...         ...               ..              ............
....... ....
aQ
a
...          ..                  ..                ...........                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ..                 ...              ...                ..                                                                         .              ..  .
.                    ..          ..               ...              ...........                                                                                                ..              ............
.........                         ...              ............                                                                                ..........                                                                                                                                                                                     ...                     ..         ......I
..................                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            :Hs                               H:                                                                                        ...........
...........
..................                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ...........
H H iH                                                                                                     .                         ..................                   .          ....                                                                                                                                                                                       .............                            ..               ..             ....
" :;:                  .......                           ...........
23                                                                                                                     ..............
....................
vq
Or   9
02
..............I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .......                         ...........
........            ............                                                                                                      ....................
C
...........
..........                                                                                                                ..........................                                                                   ..............                                                                                                                                                                     ........                      ............................................



Page 36
Table 5. Composition of the Concessionaire
Shareholder                         % of                         Function
.................................................. ...................................................................................................................................................................
SACYR SA                                             22.00        Construction & Maintenance
OCP Construcciones SA                                22.00        Construction & Maintenance
Empresa Nacional de Autopistas                        4.00        Operation and Maintenance
Banco Central Hispano                                 4.00        Financing
Estudios yProyectos Tecnicos Industriales SA           1.00       Design
~       ~ ~~~~~~9 .:I c i o   n u t i l s S         .0  ..............   ................................................................................................  ................................
Instituto de Fomento Industrial - IFI                20.00        Financing
Corfiestado Corporaci6n Financiera                    3.00       Financing
Equipo Universal Ltda.                                7.34        Construction & Maintenance
Castro Tcherassi y Cia Ltda.                          7.33        Construction & Maintenance
Gerc6n Ltda.                                          7.33        Construction & Maintenance
Cano Jimenez y Construcciones SA                      1.00       Quality Control
Wakenhut de Colombia SA                               1.00       Toll Collection
Table 6: Main contract performance guarantees
Phase           Guarantee                          Coverage                            Duration
Pre-           Performance security   Bank guarantee for 10% of estimated value of   From signing of CC to
construction                           CC (set as 25% of total expected revenue).      end of construction
phase plus 1 year
Construction   Performance security   100% of cumulative government contributions    Construction phase plus
(disbursed plus planned for that year).         1 year
Advance payment        100% of first government capital contribution    Construction phase plus
guarantee                                                              6 months
Personal and property  Col$ 10,000 million per event, adjusted for     Contract term plus 6
insurance; tort        inflation.                                      months
liability
Operation      Performance security   100% of average operation and maintenance       Renewed annually
costs adjusted for inflation, incurred during   during operation phase
Construction phase for first year of operation,    plus 1 year after
or during last five years for second year of    contract termination.
operation and on.                               concession term.
Termination    Quality control        2% of actual construction cost adjusted for      5 years after contract
security               inflation.                                      termination



Page 37
Annex 3
Toll Road Concession Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                         Local         Foreign       Total
---------------------US $ million---
Turnkey contract for project works                           273.1         223.5      496.6
Development, engineering, construction management, quality    15.8           6.8       22.5
control and government supervision costs
Financing Fees/expenses and interest during construction      21.3          31.9        53.2
Total Proiect Cost                                           310.2         262.1      572.3
(Including physical and price contingencies)



Page 38
Annex 4
Toll Road Concession Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
(Col$ billion, 1997)
Present Value of Flows (@, 12%)       Fiscal Impact
Economic       Financial       Taxes and
Analysis       Analysis1       FOREX premium   Subsidies
Incremental Benefits   508.9           518.5           9.6
Incremental Costs      276.4           319.4           43.0
Net Benefits:          232.5           199.1          (33.4)
ERR (%):                19.5%          17.7%
Summary of Benefits and Costs / Main Assumptions:
*  Alternatives. The analysis focused on the economic feasibility of constructing the new highway between Tobiagrande
and Puerto Salgar, as interventions on the rest of the network would not effect the project (except for management
efficiency gains). The analysis included the evaluation of the alternative of expanding the capacity of the existing
highway to better service the expected traffic volumes. Other alternatives, such as revamping an abandoned railway
line, were analyzed early in the project preparation process, and discarded due to their high costs and reduced economic
benefits.
* Costs. Construction costs were adjusted incorporating the foreign exchange premium (estimated at 6.4%) and
subtracting customs duties and sales taxes, yielding an overall economic conversion factor of 0.86. Annual
maintenance costs were estimated with the HDM-Q model and, for the new highway, included tunnel maintenance costs
equal to 1 percent of the investment costs of the tunnels. It was estimated that 70 percent and 25 percent of the
financial costs for routine and periodic maintenance, respectively, were related to unskilled labor, for which it was
applied a conversion factor of 0.70. Overall conversion factor for routine maintenance was 0.76, for periodic
maintenance 0.88, and for tunnel maintenance 0.90.
* Benefits. Traffic growth on the corridor would average 3.0 percent from year 2003 to year 2025. The following
quantifiable benefits (adjusted as in the case of costs) were accounted for: (a) changes in consumer surplus for the
current traffic; (b) savings in time for current traffic; (c) consumer surplus for the generated traffic; and (d) the full
value of the willingness-to-pay of the generated traffic. Other benefits, namely the reduction in accidents and the
environmental improvements and amenities were not quantified. A replacement value of half the initial investment--
representing an annual average depreciation rate of 2.5 percent--was accounted for in year 2025. The value of time for
those traveling on cars was conservatively assumed to be equal to 30 percent of the prorated wage for a mix of
passengers consisting of 8 percent low income, 20 percent medium income, and 72 percent high income. For those
traveling on buses, the value of time was estimated to be 30 percent of the minimum wage.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
* Construction costs must increase by 90%.
* Maintenance costs must multiply by 16.
* Traffic level on new highway reduced so as by year 2025 it would be about 20 percent of the projected value.
* Without generated traffic or without travel time benefits the project would still be economically feasible.
* Risk analysis was performed with the following probabilistic assumptions: (a) traffic with a Beta distribution of
economic (and, consequently, traffic) growth rates between -0.2 and 1.5, with a median of 0.75; (b) generated traffic
with a Beta distribution with changes in the percentage of generated traffic from 0 to 1.2 of the estimated values and a
median of about 0.9; and (c) construction and maintenance costs with a triangular distribution with a maximum of 1.7
and a minimum of 0.95 of the estimated costs. With these probabilistic assumptions, the Monte-Carlo simulation
yielded a distribution of IERR with a 8-percent probability of being lower than 12 percent.
IThis refers to the results of the economic analysis at financial prices. The detailed financial results for the entire project are included in Annex 5.



Page 39
Annex 4
El Vino-Tobiagrande-Puerto Salgar ToU Road Project
Economic Analysis
Introduction
1.    The project consists of (a) the operation and maintenance of the existing road from El
Vimo to Villeta (51 lan); (b) the maintenance and rehabilitation of the existing, winding road from
Villeta to Honda (72 kan); (c) the construction of a new 68.4-akm highway from Tobiagrande to
Puerto Salgar, by the road "Troncal del Magdalena," including 19.5 km of tunnels and 2.9 km of
bridges; and (d) the operaton and maintenance of the existing road from Honda to San Alberto
(380 km). The execution and management of these activities would be transferred to a private
concessionaire, selected competitvely among a list of pre-qualified companies. By reducing travel
distances (see Chart 1) and improving road alignments, the project would upgrade tanwsport
coummunications between Bogoti and Medellin-the two most populous and industrialized cites of
Colombia-and between Bogoti and the Atlantic Ports of Cartagena, Barrnquilla and Santa
Marta, the origin and desdnation of over 50 percent of Colombian exports and imports (in tons,
1994). In addition, through the concession contrct, by ensuring the adequate maintenance of one
of the most strategic road comdors of Colombia and the timely provision of traffic services, the
project will realize substantially benefits to the functioning of transport, reducing transport costs
an increasing the reliability, sa&ety and quality of freight and passenger transport services along
the corridor. The project further includes the transfer of the management of sub-Andean land as a
natural reserve, in order to preserve the enviromnent along the right-of-way of the new road.
Chart 1: Road Prolles (project and existing road)
2000.
0.0         50.0         100.0          150.0        200.0
Bogota-RtoSalgar 177.01exisTin1oad) vs. 132.2Ian
2.    'Me economic analysis focuses on the calculation and comparison of costs and beneits
brought about by the construction of the new road link. 'Me rest of the project's network would
not be affced by the construction project, except for the managernent effiiencies that the   .
.;~~~~~~~~4.~



Page 40
concessionairc is expected to bring to the operation and maintenance of the overall project. In this
respect, the following sections will present the methodology and results of the construction
component of the project.
General Methodological Approach
3.     The economic analysis encompasses the comparison of the incremental economic costs and
benefts that the construction of a new road would bnng to the transportation system of Colombia
and, consequently to its economic wealth. Both costs and benefits are calculated for the situation
with and without project to generate the amnual incremental costs and benefits during the project
life. It required the simulation of the deterioration conditions of the road caused by the climate and
the expected traffic, given the topographic and geometnc specifications of the existing and the
proposed roads.
4.     The analysis also included the evaluation of the altemative of expanding the capacity of
the eisng highway to service better the expected traffic volumes. Both the construction and the
expansion alternatives were compared to the base alterative of maintaining the existng road,
without any major improvements to its capacity. Box 1 summarizes the results of the economic
evaluation of the expansion altemative. Other alternanves, such as revamping an abandoned
railway line, were analyzed early in the project preparation process, and discarded due to their high
costs and reduced economic benefits.
Traffic                                   BxLSmay1eut fAtraieo
Expandin~~~LxistingRDtid
5.     The average daily traffic on thea
existing road amounts to about 5,400        sand      i       uldcoo S1
veh2icles, of which about 40% are trucks. In    iiloado[ipa  diinlCllOO
the four years before the completon of the                 a         forria    a
new highway, pasenger car traffic on the   out C. i                   annual 
existing road is eimated to increase by 2.8  a        STe e
percent annually and truck traffic by 5.0     P       z       cot.adraeumbr
percent annually-a total of almost 1,000     i       ~       w     a ne
vehicles. Traffic on the new highway would    economir     eno1      dwolga
come from two main sources: traffic diverted   abou  omii et              (i pt
from the exsting road, and traffic induced by  'value t .Te  ratofnetbenefits to ini
the shorter distances and the reduced transport ':capita s is .39. Tis aT 3 tivehoughi
costs (which come from shorter distances and   economicallesiledoes not comparemfaorab W:
beter road alignment and gradients). Ongin    ag          iono    Tobi
and desdnation studies reveal thit about 69  Salgar road, as can be seen.bS;he resulpresen:
percent of the exsting trffic is through  below:
traffic which would divert to the now highrway, while 31 percent is local traffic and would rmain
on the existing road. On the basis of f=ctors like traffic growth in recent years, the probable
development of the Colombian and the egional economy, and the present stage of the road
transport industry, the percentage increases in annual traffic have been estimated.



Page 41
Graph 2. Traffic Projections for the Tobiagrande-Puerto Salgar Section
18,000...............
14,000
10,000
Z,,
'M   8.000.                                        '4
~  ~~~ X                                                    4   3(        
2.000
Year
6.         The reduced transport costs-and shorter travel times-on the new highway are expected to
generate new traffic. On the basis of origin-destnation gravity studies and experience with similar
improvements in other areas (and assumung an average growth rate of the economy-in terms of
growth of GDP-of 5 percet), generated trafic is estimated to be 26 percent of the =aic diverted
from the emsfng road in the fir year ater construction, increasing to about 44 percent by year
25. (See URS Consultants Inc. -PrV Ltda., 1996). By this year, the taffic volume on the new
highway would reach about 14,300 vehicles; at that moment, fiirther investments would liklely be
justified. Table 1 shows the traffic volumes by vehicle type, on the new highway and on the
existing road, with and witout the project.
Taole 1
Averece Oaly Trafc an atasdno Villeta-44onda Road (without ordoetl
1997    19      1999   2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2010   1015   2020    2025
car                   2756   2,832   2.909  2989   3.072    3.156   3.205   3.254   3,304   3,567   3,850   4.155   4,485
BuB                     629     651    674       698     723      749       784     779      794      t78    965  t,O4   1,173
UgtTnruic               339     358    374       393     413       434      445     457      469    5s3    606    s89        783
'Wfim Tnucit            771     810    851       894     939       988    1,012   1,.38   1,065   1,211   1,376   1.565   1.779
HeiwyTrudc              288      302    318      334     350       368      378     387      397     452    514    584       664
Aaur IatdTrfuc          656     691    726       762    8a0       81        68l 3 o 8a       908   1,032   1,174   t,335   1,517
Tobt Eisting Road    5.440   5.642   5.852   6.070   6.297   6.534   6,666   6.800   6.937   7.670   8.45   9.392  10.402
Average Oaly T=ffic on New Tobiagrande-Puertn Saaqar Hi2hway
1997    t998    t999    2000        2001     2002    2003    2004    2005    2010   2015   2020    2025
Ca                                                                        Z -  2.709   2930   3.026  3.703  4.439   5.002   5,554
Bus                                                                        712      765      799     987   1.163   1.302   1.444
ughtTru"c                        *               *        *        .        603    863       882     84S   1.049   1,203   1,361
M-tum Truck                                                               1.368   1.502   1,547   1,915   2.379   2.729   3,087
HarvyT k                 .       -         -        *                       485    511       528     851     808    927   1,048
Aftcubftd  Tuc           *               .       .                 -        95     1.01   1.083   1.340   1.5Xi  1910   2,160
Tout N.wRcud       *       -       -       -        -        -      6,t611   7,423  7t,82   9,421  11.53  113073  14,86a
Aveace Oaiy Trafc on Sxrning Vllets-4a  Road (wi0h moect)
1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2           25    2010   2015   2020    2025
Car                    2758   2.832   2.909  2Z989   3.072   3,156    1.273   1,295   1,317   1,270   1,259   1,291   1.332
SW                      629     651     674      89a     723       749      189     185      181     174    170    184       200
UgL9Tnac                339     356    374       393     413       434       58e     6        66      4a      45      49      53
Ms-iumTnick             771    810    851        894      939    g98        130     141      153     112    105    11       126
S4wyTrucdk              288     302    318       334     350      368        77      82       87      78      81      91     101
A md Trute             66a    691    725       762      800      841      245      257     270      263    284    320       360
ToWa Bxisnq Rced    5.440   5.642   5352   6.070   6.297    6-534    1,970   2.021   2.074   1.944   1945   2.00   2.172



Pa42-
Financial and Economic Constuction and Maintenance Costs
7.     The total financial cost of the Tobiagrande-Puerto Salgar road is estimated at Col.S450
million pesos (about USS440 million). This cost includes the costs of engineering designs, land
acquisition and the environmental mitigation and management measures. (Land acquisition costs
amount to about Col.S2.8 milion, including the purchase of land to develop a reserve forest.) To
calculate the economic cost, three adjustments were considered. First, the foreign exchange
premium was estimated at 6.4%. (Tis is the average value of the last six years. See Table 2 for
details of calculation.) The shadow exchange rate for the project's foreign components was then
calculated at 1.06 times the official exchange rate. Second, customs duties and sales taxes were
discounted from the pertnen fincial costs. (Duties and taxes account overall for about 11.6
percent of total costs.) Third, no adjustment is made for the (oversupplied) unskilled labor in
constuction because the amount is estimated to be offset by the fact that some of the labor is
skilled and under-supplied. Construction of the project is expected to take four years. The overall
economic conversion factor for road. construction has been estimated to be equal to 0.86, on the
basis of accounting for taxes and fctoring in the foreign exchange premium adjustu:ents. Table 3
shows constction costs in financial and economic terms, and the overall conversion &ctor.
Table 2
Calculation of Foreign Exchange Premium
1990     1991      1992     1993    1994    1995    1998
Exchange Rat (ColS per USS)    502       633       759      863     845      913    1,044
Imports. CIF (USS million)  S 5,589  $ 4,959  S  6,579 S 9,831  S 11,943 S 13,861 S 13,772
Imports (ColS billion)        2,807    3,139     4,995    8,485   10,090   12,662   14,379
Exports, FOS (US$ million)  5 6,721  S 7,114  S 8,900 S 7,118 $ 8,461 S 9,763 5 10,196
Exports (CoiS billion)        3,376    4,503     5,239    8,141    7,148    8,912   10,645
Import Duties (ColS billion)   484       424       399      543     725      887     963
Implicit Tariffs (%)          13.7%     9.4%      7.6%     8.8%    10.1%    10.0%    9.1%
Export Subsidies (ColS billion)  0         0         0       0        0       0        0
Implicit Subsidy (%)            0%        0%        0%       0%      0%       0%      0%
Effective Exchange Rate
forimports    571     693       817      939      931    1,004    1,139
for expors   502       633      759      863      845     913    1,044
Elasticities
for imports   1.5      1.5       1.5      1.5     1.5      1.5     1.5
for expors    1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0
Relative Weights                  --
for imports    0.56   0.51      0.59     0.67    0.68     0.68    0.67
for exports    0.44   0.49      0.41     0.33    0.32     0.32    0.33
Shadow Exchange Rate           541       664       793      915     903      975    1,107
Conversion Factor              1.08     1.05      1.04     1.06     1.07    1.07     1.06
ISsuma on     O mm at vs_tum for Jeumy.OCt  199
-Re6ab dmdftois swm,fut artmo i* It Risassumed a  po wem,t r dasdctyfrImpaetqufor  -
rectnO a higher &hWW in fteVme O kunzats in reu    to cogM in the eWWW Mta
8.    ITe aniual maintenance costs for the new highway are esfimated at CoLS4.S million per
kilometer. Tunnel mateance is estmated at 1 percet of the investue  cost of the tunels.
(This reflects a 9 percent over the 11 percent that the cost of air-flow equipment and fighting
fixture represent of the entire cost of those tunnels.) The same adjustaias indicated above were
applied to convert the financial costs of routine and periodic maintance to economic costs. In
this case, however, based on other analyses in the country, it was estimated th  70 percent and 25
percent, respectvely, of the financial costs were related to unskilled labor, for which it was applied
a conversion fctor of 0.70, reflecting the prevalence of unemployed labor. The overall conversion



Page 43
factor for routine maintena   was calculated at 0.76, for periodic maint ce at 0.88 and for
tunnel maintenance at 0.90.
Table 3
Construction costs (1997 ColS million)
Financial  Economic   Difference due to
Costs      Costs   Fore Prem.   Taxes
Surface Roads
Equipment                 42,317    36,643    (2,061)   7,735
Matenals                  28,756    24,789         -      3,968
Labor                     11,967    10,316         -      1,651
Administration            10,102       8,708       -      1,393
Profts                     6,643      5,740.    (165)   1,088
Contingencies              8,304      7,175      (206)   1,335
SubTotal  108,088    93,371    (2,432)  17,149
Bndges
Equipment                 14,220    12,320        (779)   2,679
Materials                  9,202      7,946       (168)   1,424
Labor                      6,107      5,264        -        842
Administration             6,496       5,600                896
Profts                     2,362      2,042        (76)     396
Contingencies              4,429      3,830       (142)     742
Sub-Total   42,816    37,002    (1,165)   6,979
Conventional Tunnels
Equipment                 21,094    18,276    (1,156)    3,974
Materials                 47,380    40,913        (865)   7,332
Labor                      6,381      5,510       (117)     987
Administration            14,974    12,909         -      2,065
Profits                    5,988      5,176       (171)     984
Contingencies             11,228      9,705      (321)   1,844
Sub-Total  107,047    92,489    (2,629)  17,187
TBM Tunnels
Equipment        .        45,142    39,132    (2,748)   8,758
Materials                 67,542    58,323    (1,234)  10,452
Labor                      2,253      1,948       (41)      349
Administaon               18,166    15,660                2,506
Profits                    9,195      7,952      (322)   1,565
Contingencies             17,241    14,910       (603)   2,934
Sub-Total  159,539   137,924    (4,948)  26,563
Consultant Services
Sub-Total   20,874    18,015       (254)   3,113
Other
Land AdquisUon             1,468      1,265       -        202
Environmental Mitigation   8,520      7,344       -       1,175
Sub-Total    9,987      8,610       -      1,378
Grand Total                  448,351   387,411   (11,429)  72,368
Note: Overall coversion actor equal to 0.86.



Page 44
9.     The calculation of the annual maintenance costs has been carried out with the HDM-Q
model. This model simulates the deterioration of the road in relation to environmental factors and
the traffic on the road. The model provides the specific periods for the resurfacing of each road
link. The frequency of resurfecing-around 7 years-was determined on the basis of the level of
service requirements stipulated in the bidding documents. This policy was applied to both the
existing road and the new highway.
10.    In addition, consideration has been given to the costs associated with the operation of the
toll booths. The cost of these services amounts to 2.5 percent of the amount of revenues collected.
These values are adjusted by 0.9 to convert their values to economic costs, reflecting the foreign
component of the toll booth technologies (subtracting import duties and sales taxes and inchluding
the foreign exchange premium). Table 4 summarizes the annual operation and maintenance costs.
Table 4
Oceraton and Mainenance Costs (1997 CoIS million)
2003   2004   2005   2010   2015   2020   2025
Existng Road (wmthout project)
Financial Cocs     4,476   3,892    325    325    325    325   325
Economic Costs     3,902   3.388    248    248    248    248   248
Now Highway
Financial Coss     3,494   3,494   3,494   3,494   3,494  3,494  3,494
Economic Cos       3,092   3,092   3,092   3,092   3,092  3,092  3,092
Existng Road (with projact)
Financial Costs    4,351   1,648   2,321    200    200  5,701    200
Economic Cos:      3,807   1,426   2,020    152    152  4,995   152
Total wit Project
Financial Costs    7,845   5,140   5,815   3,694   3,694  9,195  3,694
EconomicCosts      8,899   4,517   5,111   3,244   3,244  8,087  3,244
Incremental Costs
Financial          3,369   1,248   5,490   3,369   3,369  8,870  3,369
Economic           2,996   1,129   4,864   2,996   2,996  7,839  2.996
Now Ca%ron ftors: (a) (or nis man_wwvec 0.76; (b) for penoan mtaintoance 0.88: and (c) forl .w
opaun and mantvtaro 0.90o
11.    In the sensitivity and risk analysis, results were obtained for the possibility tha due to
unkmown distortions in the economy (such as money laundering) the effdct on the foregn exchange
may be eliminated and that the shadow labor wage for unskilled workers would be equal to the 
market rate. In this manner, the model can test whether the consideration of those distortons may
o may not affect the economic feasibility of the project.
Benefits
12.    The economic analysis accounts for the following quantifiable benefits: (a) changes in
consumer surplus for the current traMfic as a consequence of reduced vehicle operating costs and
savings in time for current traic; (b) consumer surplus for the generated traffic (calculated as half
the vehicle operating and time benefits for the normal traffic); and (c) the generated traffic times
the respective toil on the new highway, to fMlly account the value of the willingness-tay of the
generated traffic. These values have to be correspondingly considered for the tffic diverted from
the existng road to the new road, for the generated traffic on the new road, and for the traffic that
stays on the existing road. An schematic representation of the benefits of the project is shown in
Graph 3.



Page 45
Graph 3. Schematic Representation of Project Benefits
Costs
TCO                          X
TC1 Y
u         V
ti
tO    _R
QO        Q1                    Traffic
Notes: (a) Economic benefitsfor exzting trafc (QO) are equal to the difference between vehicle operating cost and
trwael time costs between the -nth and withoutproject siuations, that is, tO-TCO-X-R minus tl-TCI-Z-U. (b)
Economic benefitsfor induced traffic (QI minus QO) are equal to the gross benefits minus vehicle operating costs
and travel time costs, that is, QO-X-1-Ql minus U-Z-Y-V, and this is equal to the increase in conswnersurplus, Z-X.
Y. plus the income generatedfrom the new traffic, QO-U-V-41. The "tO" and "tl "on the vertical is of iegraph
repreent the tolls without and with project, respectively.
13.    Vehicle operating costs were calculated with the last version of the Highway Design and
Maintenance Standards Model (HDM-Q) which incorporates congestion effects. Table 5
summarizes the input economic values (net of taxes and incorporatng, when relevant, the foreig
exchange premium).
Table 5
Vechile Fleet Charcteristics
Cars       Buses       Ligh      Medium       Heavy   Artculate
Trucks     Trucks     Trucks    d Trucks
Economic costs:
New vehicle price (ColS,000)    28,014     113,300     38,795      57,608     128,995    157,796
New tire price (ColS,000)        54.1       224.9       127.0       341.0      341.0     341.0
*aint. labor cost (ColS,000/hour)    3.01   3.01        3.01        3.01       3.22       3.22-
Crew cost (ColS,000/hour)         -         4.68        1.68        3.12       3.50       4.43
Pass. time cost (ColS,000/hour)  2.10       0.33          -          -           - -
Gas/Diesel price (ColS,000/iter)  0.40      0.40        0.34        0.34       0.34       0.34
Lubricants price (ColS,OOO/liter)  2.04     2.04        2.04        2.04       2.04       2.04
Other Characteristics
Gross vehicle weight (tons)      1.6        16.00        4.6        13.0       26.3       48.0
Payload (tons)                   0.4         6.0         2.8        7.6        15.3       31.0
Service life (years)             12          12          12          18         18         18
Kilometers driven per year (Ian)  30,000   100,000     95,000      75,300     59,700     57,500
Hours driven per year (hours)    800        2,500       2,500      2,500       2,500     2,500
Number of passegers               2          20                      -           -
Hourly ulizaion ratio           0.60        0.75        0.85        0.85       0.85       0.85
Number of tres                    4           6           4          6          10         18
14.    The existing road was divided in six separate sections, to account differendy the diffent
physical characteristics of each of the sections. The new highway was atated as a single link for
the purpose of calculating vehicle operating costs, but differences were taken into account between
surface, tunnel and bridge sections for the purposes of calculating maintenance and rehabilitaton



Page 46
costs. Table 6 summarizes the physical characteristics of each section of the eisting road and of
the new highway.
Table 6
Main Phvsical Characteristics of Existing Road and New Highway
Existing Road
TobiaG.   Villeta   Guaduas   Honda   Guauino   Dorada    New
Villeta   Guaduas   Honda   Guarino   Dorada   Pto.SaIL  Higway
Length (km)                  3.0      32.0      33.0      15.0     22.0      5.0      68A
Width (m)                    10.9      8.0       8.0       9.3      9.7      10.9     11.1
Max roughnmess (IRI)           4        4          4        4         4        4        3
Rise & fill (m )             0.4      49.0      38.1       1.2      1.4      0.4     22.5
Horizontal curvature (degfln)  77.3    409.9     357      63.9     25.2      77.3     52.1
Average altitde (m)          252      1010      1010      295       270      252      800
Lateral friction (as per HDM)  0.8     0.8       0.8       0.8      0.8      0.8       1.0
15.    Average daily tramc on the existing road will reach 6,500 vehicles in year 2002, with
about 40 percent of trucks, and cause considerable congestion and will become incraingly serious
if road capacity is not expanded on the corridor. Already, in two sections of the existng road-
Vl-etaCGaduas and Guadus-Honda-representing almost 60 percent of its length, when a heavy
vehicle meets an oncoming vehicle on those 8 meter-wide sections, the two must reduce speed (to
an average of 20 kmthr). Similarly, passing another vehicle requires careful and skllfiul drivmg.
As a result, the present travel tine between the two end points of the existing 1 10-km road is over
four hours (at an prorated average of 27 kmn per hour). On the proposed new 68.4-km highway,
aveae speeds would increase to 54 Ian per hour and average travel times would be substantially
reduced to about 1.3 hours. (See Table 7, for expected speeds in year 2010 with a without the
projecrt)
Table 7
Average Speeds (km/hour, year 2010)
Existing   Existing
Road      Road      New
(without   (with    Highway
project)   pro)ect)
Car                    30.9      54.5      67.2
Bus                    26.5      37.8      50.1
Ught Truck             26.6      46.5      58.4
Medium Truck           24.4      40.5      52.5
Heavy Truck            21.5      30.3      38.6
Articulated Truck      23.0      31.7      42.0
16.    The analysis of vehicle operating costs on the existng road and the new highway indicate
that costs per vehicle-kilometer for the vehicles diverted to the new road would be reduced by
arund 50 percent The (local) traffc that remains on the existing road would also see their costs
reduced up to 6 percent, if the proposed project is executed (diverting 61 percent of the trafc on
the existing highway). (ln these calculations the vehicle operating costs are net of taxes and the
foreign exchange costs have been shadow priced.)
17.    The time savings for passengers are accounted through the proper assignment of economic
value of travel time. The value of travel time is considered a function of the wage level. The value



Page 47
of time for those traveling On cars is conservatively assumed to be CoSl1,750 pesos per hou,
representing 30 percent of the prorated time value for a mix of passengers consisting of 8 percent
low income (double the minimuTm wage of Col$748 pesos), 20 percent medium income (fou imes
the minimum wage), and 72 percent high income (seven times the minimum wage). For those
traveling on buses, the value of time is assumed to be about ColS277 pesos per hour, representing
a conservative assumption of 30 percent of the minimum wage. (The values are consisten with
those assumed in other projects in the country.) For cars, it was considered an occupancy levd of
2 adults and for buses of 20 adults (values based on surveys undertaken on other toll roads).
18.    Table 8 summarizes typical road user costs (including travel time costs) on the eistizg
road, with and without the project, and on the new highway. Table 9 shows a typical composition
of road user comt on the new road. Gaph 4 further shows the varation in road user costs with the
range of average daily traic exected for the existng road and the new highway.
Table 8
Typical Road User Costs (Col$/vehide-krrn, year 2010)
Existing   Existing
Road     Road
(without   (with    New
project)  project)  Highway
Aerae  Average
Car                      381       340     301
Bus                      943       893     720
Ught Truck               376       351     284
Medium Truck             627       604     468
Heavy Truck            1,192    1,186      973
Articulated Truck      1,571    1,561   1,32
Table 9
Composition of Road User Costs on New Road (Col$Ivehicle-krm, year 2010) *
Medium   Heavy  Afldlud
car      Bus   Ught Truck  Truck   Trurk   Tnt*k
Fuel and Lubricants       44       123       85      117     191    287
Tires                       4       41       26       53      92    126
Maint.PartsandLabor       75       180      118     172      399    572
Crew                      -         90       28       58      89    103
Depreciation and Interest   119    157       48       68     201    234
PassengerlTime            60       128
Ftgures do not include toll costs.



Page 48
Graph 3. Variation of Road User Costs with Average Daily Traffic
(Section Guarino-Dorada of Existirig Road)
' 1 600 
-1,400
1, 200
u1,000
~400
u200
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. . ........
Average Daily Traffic
19.     Other benefits, namely the reduction in accidents and the environmental improvements and
amenities that will be generated by the strict environmental mitigation measures undertaken under
the project (includig the land acquisition and management of a reserve forest), have not been
quantified. Nevertheless, these benefits are expected to be well above the costs associated with the
related project components (such as the ambulance service or the development of the reserve
forest). By not taking them into account, the results would fall on the conservative side. Finally, a
replacement value of half the initial investment-representing an annual average depreciation rate of
2.5 percent-was accounted for in year 2025.
Results
20.     On the basis of the above-mentioned values and assumptions, the economic evaluation of
the project yields an economic rate of return of 16.6 percent, without consideration of passenger - -
time benefits, and of 18.1 percent with consideration of those benefits. The net presentvalues, at a
12 percent discount rate, amount to Col$155.0 billion and Col$211.9 billion, respectively. The
results are robust to major changes in the assumptions for the economic prices. For instance,
without adjustnents due to foreign exchange premium or for shadow labor costs, the economic
rats of return would remain in the same order of magitude. Table 10 surmariem the results of
the annual incremental costs and benefits and the net benefits.
Taeie 10
Sw1mary ot Cot and Benefit Flows (CoB mIO, shleCd yew)
too  in    20X   2Wt   20X  2X3S  MOt4  DttS  ZDSO  DtS   2    an2
ILIU  U.m Ue 3102  107,0100  11L
C_   1.13 lae'>  lm M   %01 1      s .
5.OCskg v*  b 6as                    * *          -  -   7S  SK4I? K     1 01 4   T.73412  146.06  MM
SpiVCwmEUd3446uw           .    *       *     *      *    I   61.31' Ztl6  117.73i,.n  161.E ltft.t EUtt
(Clam0 (31.0M4) (1.05 (t07?.0  (MGMM0211 UL  601   It274  1237  137W  3677
llt_hw     ~ bqwb.1       (1tS1  01(1Ko1  11S2150  (107.001t'O tL208    MM  1110  114.m? ,aaE  15081 3*4lt



Page 49
21.    Two variables are usually critical to the ultimate economic viabilty of road projects,
constuction costs and economic growth (which affects traffic growti). In the case of the
Tobiagrande-Puerto Salgar road, the economic worthiness appears solid, as the switching values
for construction costs and economic grovth will unlikely be reached. Independently, constmction
costs need to multiply by 1.9 or economic growth decrease on average by 5.8 percent in order to
turn net present value equal to zero or the economic rate of return equal to 12 percent. This.latter
rate of economic growth would translate into a level of traffic that by year 2025 would be about 20
percent of the projected value.
Table I 1. Summary Results of Economic Analysis
Without Pass.           With Pass.
Time Benef.           Time Benef.
Economic Indicators
Net Present Value (,12%, Col5 billion)                 180.7                 232.5
Economic Rate of Retum                                  18.0%                 19.5%
Ratio of Net Benefits/Capital Costs                        1.8                   2.0
Switching Values
Increase in Construction Costs                            1.70                  1.90
Traffic on New Highway as Percent of
Project Value in Year 2025                            40%                   35%
This value translats into an aveage annual decrease in traffic of about 1.2%, from the lovei of daily traffic of
about 7,400 in year 2003, the year when the new road is expected to be completed.
22.    In addition, risk analysis was performed to test the effect on the economic feasibility of the
project with probabilistic changes in the assumptions related to traffic growth, consruction and
maintenance costs, and generated traffic. Trafc was varied according to major deviations in
economic growth during the analysis period, assuming a beta distribution of economic (and,
consequently, traffic) gronvh rates between -0.2 and 1.5, with a median of 0.75. Generated traffic
also is varied assuming a beta distribution with changes in the percentage of generated trafiEc from
0 to 1.2 of the estimated values and a median of about 0.9. Construction and maintenance costs
were varied following a triagular distribution with a maximum of 1.7 and a minimum of 0.95 of
the estmated costs. A Monte-Cario simulation of these risks yields a distribution of economic
rates of return with a probability of 25 percent of being lower than 12 percent in the case of not
considering the passenger-time benefits and of about 1 1 percent in the case of including those
benefits. (See Graphs 4 and 5.)
Graph 4: Internal Rate of Retum (without travel time Benefisa
Frequency Chart
...........................       .  ................... 562
.01 ..................3.56.2
8.0 0% 061.                              631.
Cetainty i 75.6S% from 12.0% to



Page 50
Graph 5: Economic Rate of Return (with travel time benefrts)
Frequency Chart
76
'- .006    ....                                    ...... 
.000                 M1                                     0
9.0%       12.0        15.0          18.0        21.0
Crtainty is 89.23% frorn 12.0% to EinniKY
23.    Further sensitivity analyses were undertaken to assess the impact of changes in the toll
rates along the new highway. The demand study included an assessment of the changes in traffic
to changes in toll rates, in the context of other road links in Colombia The results, however,
should be treated as tentative, given that the limited existence of alternative routes in Colombia has
not allowed to obtain the necessary data to generate statistically significant values for the elasticity
of demand. Based on the informaion available, it has been assumed an elasticity of demand of -
0.141, -0.03, and -0.036, for cars, buses, and trucks, respectively. These elasticities-to be applied
to both normal and generated traffic-would correspond to toll rates of the ones proposed under the
project They would appro7niately double for double those toll rates. Under these assumptions,
Graph 6 shows the variation of either the project economic rate of return or the amrual revenues in
year 2012. The Graph shows that higher rates would improve total revenues (and hence the
project's financial feasibility) but would negatively affect its economic worth.
Variation of ERR and Revenues In Year 2010
with Average Toll on Now Highway
45.000  ~~~~~~~~~~~~...............          .20
40<.0i
35,000              .....20
o                             ..g_f                i0ii8ii9 if
25A000                        e
*20oo.0.0.
15.000 .50
10 000 ~
5,000      :::~s~:::
Averago Toll on Now M4Ighwuy (CoISivoll.)



Page 51
Fiscal, Social and Distributional Analysis
24.    Project costs were compared to current budget levels of the executing institution and of the
national govenmment to assess the possible fiscal impact of the project. With no participation of the
private sector, the project would represent between 7 and 18 percent of the road sector invesnent
program for the national network during the constuction period, taldng then a sizable percntage
of the budgetary resources of the executing institution. However, with partial private financing the
Govemment contnbution would be reduced to between 4 and 10 percent, and hence the project's
fiscal impact from the persepctve of the executing agency would be manageable.
25.    The tolls established in the various links of the overall project are compatible with those
currently existing in the rest of the Colombian road network. These toUs attempt to balance the
level of revenues with the levels of service and maintenance requirements for each link of the
network. The tolls would allow to fully cover the routine and periodic maitenance costs of the
project's links. For the new road, road users will enjoy substantial savings in vehicle operating and
travel time costs, ranging beween Col$21,000 for autos and Col$83,000 for articulated trucks.
The proposed tolls represent contribution from users varying between 9 and 36 percent of users'
savings (the lowest value corresponding to buses and the highest to medium trucks). The tolls
would fully cover operating and maintenance costs and provide the concessionaire with a
reasonable return on the invesxnent, net of the govermnent contribution.
26.    The structure and cormosition of the road tansport industry in Colombia is largely
unreglated (the main exceton being safety regulations) and highly competitive. In this respect,
the net reduction in transport costs brought about by the construction project should effecidvely
reduce freight rates, ultimately reducing the price of the transported goods.
27.    A detailed assessment of the distribution of costs and benefts (and the differences between
the results of the economic and fiacial analyses) is shown in Table 12. This tables illustrates .
that largely the users of the road would be the greate  beneficianes of the investment, and hatthe
Govemment would be largely contributing to the costs of the project, and that its contribution is
critical for undertaking the project Given the limited impact in the Government finances, and
given the highest priority of the project within the context of development stategy in Colambia, it
is reasonable to assume that the projectwould couton the interestof both    citicemr and the.   =  _:
public sector.
28.    The risk analysis shows dat the project would be affected by the simultaneous
combination of adverse conditions, including substantial increases in construction and operating
and maintenance costs, declining economic growth, and null (or negligible) generated tra5c. The
distibutional analysis shows that truck companies and project sponsors would strongly support the.
project, and the Government would be the party with the largest negative payoff Given the
priority of the project in the Government's investment program, the project would count with a
strong support to be carried out in time and within budget, fiuther reducing the likelyhood of a
negative economic return to the project
29.    In sum, the project's economic feasibility appears robust, providing an indication of th.
economic worthiness of the project and its benefits to advance the economic development of
Colombia.



I  Ii
i ~~~~11 .  I.]  
| t} fi... ... ... ..." 
i  j          fi'  E                        - a-dE 0gtt*      
I                                I
l t            I                   I3511]|t
cm                         rdIIIAiIi!AiIfjf



Annex 5
Financial Summary for Revenue Earning Project Entities
Calendar Years 1998 through 2022'
(All Figures, except traffic projections, in Millions of Current US Dollars)
______________________________________   1998  1999  2000  2001     2002        2003      2004       2005       2006      2007       2012       2017       2022
Incoew Statement Items
Acuad&Tra(fficn(o. ofvehicles)                                  19,321    20,616     22,641     24,229    31,546      28,286    30,193     31,735     33,353    35,044     45,119     57,576    73,806
Revenues                                                         10.45     21.72      24.82      28.46      38.88      45.82      50.59     54.56      59.35      65.68    101.34     151.10      63.00
Operating lacomn                                                  0.39       7.66      10.39     12.06      21.54      24.42      27.57     32.62      38.44      43.68     75.11      93.77      38.74
Net lncaeo                                                        0.25       5.03       7.41      9.78       9.15     (32.10)    (20.42)    (14.29)    (7.34)      0.10     10.65      31.40     (12.69)
Funds Statement Items
latemal Sources (Project Operating Revenues)                      0.39       7.66      10.39     12.06      21.54      24.42      27.57     32.62      38.44      43.68     75.11      93.77      38.74
Borrowing                                                         3.24      0.34       76.73    151.94      62.86                        -         -               -          -
Equity Inveatmeslca
Concessionaire Eis ty                                            2.17     63.12      34.40        -         -
Govemcat Coaftibutioss                                                   77.21      60.20        -         -                     .          .    -                          -          -
Total Soures                                                       5.80    148.33      181.72    164.00     84.39       24.42     27.57      32.62      38.44     43.68      75.11      93.77      38.74
Ca2pital Sxpendturrs & other recurrent costs                     15.33    133.97     207.27     202.75     144.74      23.91     24.88      23.55      22.83     23.45      27.32      67.32     21.26
Working Capital bIcrease (Decrease)                                .         .-                                                    -          - 
0)ebtSiervice & oter Fuanucial coase                              2.96     (0.08)      (1.21)    (2.99)     (6.53)     22.50      13.59      11.85      9.66      6.81      20.74      (4.28)     (2.3B)
Tohj Applications (excluding Taxes & Dividends)                   18.28     133.89    206.06     199.76    138.21       46.41      38.47     35.41      32.49     30.26      48.06      63.04      18.B8
Balance Sheet Items
Current Assets                                                   (0.01)    25.66      21.77      17.79     14.57        3.90      (1.30)     1.31      11.32     20.16      42.46      50.36       1.92
Less Cuirrnt Liabilitics                                        -          -          -         -          -          -          -
Ne Fixed Assets                                                   5.30    135.51     293.08     455.86    545.42      530.72    514.90     500.27     487.85    468.44     349.69     188.69    (24.03)
Total Assets                                                   5.30    141.18     314.85     473.64    559.99      534.62    513.60     501.57    499.16     488.60     392.15    239.05     (22.12)
Dcbi                                                              3.01      3.32      75.34     217.81    287.80      229.90    229.90     230.99     233.74    233.74     102.06        -
Equity                                                            2.29    137.85     239.51     255.84    272.19      304.71    283.70     270.58     265.42    254.86     290.08     239.05     (22.12)
Tota Liablitles & Equity                                      5.30    141.18      314.85    473.64     559.99     534.62     513.60    501.57     499.16     488.60    392.15     239.05     (22.12)
jnsancdal KRdos
tsolraisut ltulcsl;o " a %s sl ltevessuaL                        t.t(4      t0.35      (1.42     0t.42      0.5       (1.53     (t.54      t0.6       t.65      tt.(.7      I.71      t0.62       t.61
Nt ncome as a % of levenue                                        (.02     0.23       0.30       0.34      0.24      (0.70)     (0.40)     (0.26)     (0.12)     1.00       0.11      0.22      (0.22)
Return on Average lnvested Cital                                 4.35%     3.39%      4.08%      5.97%    10.84%    -131.45%    -74.07%    -43.79%o   -19.10%    0.23%     14.41%    36.52%    -38.90%
Debt Service Coverage                                              na        n/a        d/a        n/a       ta         0.51      0.83       1.10       1.54      2.24       0.98        n/a       n/A
% of Total Capital FxpnditWs financd by interl resources            n/a    6.96%      5.98%      7.77%    23.44%          n/a       n/A        n/a       W/a        sia        si/a       W/a       n/a
Curren Ratio                                                       Wsa       ai/a       n/a        s/a       sia        sI/a       ana          A        n/a       n/a        na          a        n/a
Debt as O ofTotal Capitalintion                                 61.14%     2.53%     23.50%     49.00%    54.76%      45.82%    47.70%     48.84%     49.07%    50.14%     27.28%      O.O0%     0.00%
Balance Sheet based on rnid-year exchange rates.                                      Page 1 of 2



Annex 5
Fiinaiicial Summary for Revenue Earning Project Entitics
Calendar Years 1998 through 2022.
(All Figures, except traffic projectionls, in Millioos of Current US Dollurs)
1998       1999       2000       2001        2002        2003       2004       2005       2006        2007       2012       2017        2022
Proied Co st
Dcvhpnmel _ Expene                                                     1.64
Engi _i       icandCmuueAmnM anA-M                                      -         2.25        3.46       2.35       1.37
Projecl M    _AOage4 nlOpea  P_nig                                      -         1.80        2.77       2.28       1.09
Finaa Seari and Fecs                                                   2.96        -                      -          -
Psedi' Land                                                           ,
Donsai Leand
Aeoukilin Searuce
Property fer Mgo-                                                                 2.40        2.46       2.53       2.60
-Toal Precdj.                                                         -         2.40        2.46       2.53       2.60
Tuaku                                                                   -        70.52      109.23      89.92      41.02
'1ddgiep                                                                -        11.05       17.31      14.27       7.32
Roads                                                                   -        29.37       43.86      35.66      17.07
i'sersatetor                                                           0.95       0.66        0.57       0.50       0.44
Pai6r Risk Guaree Fees
Di)eb Scnrice Reatrv Fundig 
in'_ Expense                                                           0.16       0.34        5,26      17.41      26.98
TOa Projed Costs                                                       5.70     118.39      184.92     165.43      97.U8
Rcfrumn Cos(Ie                                                                                          
(OA  I('Cj                                                              -         8.62       10.19      13.20      13.47       16.96      16.73       15.59      16.46      17.21      17.64       47.31      16.9aF
Road iii'_nat                                                           -         2.59        1.34        -          -           -         1.49        1.53        -          -          1.89        -         1.90
SeilisGencr& Adminisugae                                               9.33       1.32        1.37       1.45       1.49        1.62       1.69        1.70       1.73       1.79       2.05        3.11       2.52
Cod  of Flsii g                                                                  (0.08)      (1.21)     (2.99)     (6.53)      22.50      13.59       11.85       9.66       6.81      20.74       (4.28)     (2.38)
Taxst                                                                  0.14       2.71        4.19       5.27       4.93        5.33       4.96        4.74       4.64       4.46       5.74       16.91      (0.12)
TOTAL (escluling Dividends)                                           15.33     133.89     206.06      199.76     138.21       46.41      38.47      35.41       32.49      30.26      48.06      63.04       38.88
Funds Stlemeal Iems
intaSouc  (Project Opratg Revenues)                                   0.39       7.66       10.39      12.06      21.54       24.42      27.57      32.62       38.44      43.68      75.11      93.77       38.74
Barewip                                                               3.24       0.34      76.73      151.94      62.86         -          -                     -           -          -          -
Equty ia 'atrn enls
C_osaonaie Equily                                                    2.17      63.12      34.40                                     -                -
lovemmcan Cot butoa                                                  -         77.21      60.20        -           -
Trta sources                                                           5.8o     148.33     181.72      164.00      84.39       24.42      27.57      32.62      38.44       43.68      75.11      93.77      38.74
Notes:
TIMING ASSUMPTIONS                                                   i                 TAX ASSUMPTIONS                               DEBT ASSUMPTIONS
Amount of Debt                       $245.0
Codnscio Coaple_                                                     6130/02                                                         Benunk Raft                           5.50%
liqi7ecistion Peurod (yeses)                                             20            i'noe. Tax                 35.0%              Spread to Benhmark                     5.42%
Is-Seri Dueale                                                        7/l/02           Auet Tax Base                1.5%             i_nt  Real ea Debt                    10.92%
C escion Peaid Temeavation                                            7/3/22           Equiy Tax Base               5.0%             Teanr Aftr Consaucion                     8
Of YeO  Of COncssio                                               20   .        Mu ipalies                    1%             Mo  o-Style Amodizi                       yes
Balance Sheet based on rnid-year exchange rates.                                          Page 2 of 2



Page 55
Annex 6
Toll Road Concession Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A). The private concessionaire was selected on the basis of International
Competitive Bidding, following a prequalification acceptable to the Bank (see Annex 2).
Prior review thresholds (Table B). ). The bidding package for procurement of the Concessionaire was
subject to the Bank's prior review of advertising, bidding documents, bid evaluation and contract award. The
Technical Agreements to be entered between the Concessionaire with one or more of its shareholders (the Technical
Assistants to the Concessionaire) to perform certain project responsibilities in accordance with the CC, will be
subject to prior review by the Bank.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs): The use of SOEs will not be permitted.
Special account: The use of a Special Account is not envisaged.
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(in US$ Million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                     Procurement Method                 Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
1GB        NCB         Odher     N.B.F
1. Works
Turnkey contract            496.6                                             496.6
(137.1)                                          (137.1)
2. Services
Development, engineering,                                        18.5          18.5
construction management:                                         (0.0)         (0.0)
Government supervision                                            4.0           4.0
(0.0)         (0.0)
3. Miscellaneous
Financing fees and IDC                                          53.2
(0.0)
Total                       496.6                               75.7         572.3
(137.1)                              (0.0)       (137.1)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes services procured by the concessionaire and government).
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD1 1.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment Operations."
Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A, where applicable).



0
Page 56
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Expenditure                Contract Value               Procurement              Contracts Subject to
Category                  (Threshold)                    Method                   Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior Review
1. Works
Concession Contract             No threshold            ICB                                        All
Technical Agreements            No threshold             Concessionaire's                          Al
.          ..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:                  All
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                         Amount in US$          Financing Percentage
Million                      (*)
(1) First Contribution                                                37.1                  100%
(2) Second Contribution                                               40.0                  100%
(3) Third Contribution                                                60.0                  100%
Total                137.1
 Percentage of amounts deposited by INVIAS in the applicable Trust Account
'Thresholds generally differ by countly and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and contact the
Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Page 57
Annex 7
Toll Road Concession Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                         Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
288.3)               311.56
B. Project Schedule                                Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        31 months            41 months
First Bank mission (identification)               01/23/95              01/23/95
Appraisal mission departure                       04/30/97              10/08/97
Negotiations                                      07/21/97              05/13/98
Board Presentation                                09/22/97              07/02/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     05/30/98
Prepared by:
National Institute of Highways (INVIAS) and National Departament of Planning (DNP)
Preparation assistance:
Government's financial and legal advisors were financed with partial support from PPF P-265-CO.
Engineering and traffic Studies were financed under Loan 3453-CO.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialty
Jose Luis Irigoyen                           Task Manager
Krishna Challa                        Private Sector Development
Suman Babbar                       Project Finance/Guarantee Expert
Ramzi Al Bader (PFG)                  Financial Analyst /Guarantee Expert
Pankaj Gupta                             Financial Modeling
Aurelio Menendez                          Economic Evaluation
Alberto Amos                         Tranpsort Specialist-Financing
Juan Quintero                          Environmental specialist
Roberto Cucullu                                Counsel
Elizabeth Pendleton                     Counsel on Bank Guarantee
Issam Abousleiman                          Disbursement Officer
Efraim Jimenez                               Procurement
John Flora                                Peer reviewer
Keneth Gwilliam                              Peer reviewer
Amnon Mates                                 Peer reviewer



Page 58
Annex 8
Toll Road Concession Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
lNVIAS. 1997a. "Proyecto de Concesi6n Tobiagrande - Pto. Salgar: Estudio de Impacto Ambiental: Resumen
Ejecuflvo; Informe Final; Anexo Pianos". Three volumes. Report prepared by EDL SRL. March.
1997b. "Documento de Precalificaci6n Licitaci6n Pblica Internacional No. SCO-LO0-97 Concesi6n
El Vino-Tobiagrande-Pto. Salgar-San Alberto". Prepared by CS First Boston-Inverlink-Gomez Pinz6n Asoc.
March. Addendas 1, 2 and 3 April.
_   1997c. "Concesi6n El Vino-Tobiagrande-Pto. Salgar-San Alberto: Volumen I - Pliego de Condiciones;
and Volumen II - Minuta del Contrato de Concesi6n". Prepared by CS First Boston-Inverlink-Gomez Pinx6n
Asoc. March.
_   1997d. "Licitaci6n Puiblica Internacional No. SCO-LOI-97 Concesi6n El Vino-Tobiagrande-Pto.
Salgar-San Alberto. Anexos: 1- Bienes que revierten a la Naci6n; 2- Niveles de Servicio; 3- Reglamento para
Operacd6n de Carreteras Concesionadas; 4- Normas para Mantenimiento de Carreteras Concesionadas; y 5-
Actvidades a Realizar en los Puentes de los Tramos I y 4". March
_   1996a. "Especificaciones Generales y Terminos de Referencia para DiseJlo Definitivo de la Carretera
Tobiagrande-Pto. Salgar". Prepared by EDL SRL. December
_   1996b. "Estudio Fase 1U Tobiagrande-Pto. Salgar: Presupuesto; Disehio Geom6trico". Prepared by
EDL SRL. December
Ministerio Medio Ambiente. 1996. Environmental License for the El Vino-Tobiagrande-Pto. Salgar-San Alberto
Road Concession. Ministerial Resolution No. 1420 of December 17, 1996.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
World Bank. 1997a. "Economic Analysis of the El Vino-Tobiagrande-Pto. Salgar Toll Road Project". Mimeo.
June.
_________ 11997b. "Proposed El Vino-Tobiagrande-Pto. Salgar Toll Road Project. Issues for consideration of
the Operation Comminee". Mimeo. April 23.
_________  1996a. "Proposed El Vino-Tobiagrande-Pto. Salgar Toll Road Project. Issues for consideration of
the Regional Operation Committee". Mimeo. November 11.
1996b. "Proposed El Vino-Tobiagrande-Pto. Salgar Toll Road Project. Assessment of Financing
Alternatives". Mimeo. October 7. (Updated on June 1997)
1996c. "Proposed El Vino-Tobiagrande-Pto. Salgar Toll Road Project. Project Concept Review
Meeting and PCD package" Mimeo. September 9 and August 29.
_  1996d. "The Colombian Road Concession Program". Back-to-Office Report - Annex 3. Mimeo.
August 14.
1996a "Colombia Transport Sector Strategy Paper". Mimeo. May 24.



Page 59
C. Other
CS First Boston-Inverlink. 1997. "Financial Analysis Concesi6n El Vino-Pto. Salgar". Presentation to DNP,
iNVIAS and MHCP. January
. 1996. "Recomendaciones para la Concesi6n El Vino-Pto. Salgar". Presentation to
DNP, INVIAS and MHCP. August
D2 Consult. 1996. "Review on the Tunnels for the Tobiagrande - Pto. Salgar Road". Report for INVIAS.
September
DNP-INVIAS-MHCP. 1996. "Concesi6n Vial: Togiagrande-Pto. Salgar". Presentation to the Committee for
Private Participation in Infrastructure. August 1996.
DNP. 1997. "Autorizaci6n a la Naci6n para otorgar las garantlas a las operaciones que INVIAS contratara con
la Banca Multilateral para el Proyecto de Concesi6n El Vino-Tobiagrande-Pto. Salgar-San Alberto." CONPES
Document No. 2944 and 2921. April and August.
1996. "La Parficipaci6n Privada en Proyectos de Infraestructure - Seguimmiento". CONPES Document
No.. June 26
1995. "Plan de Infraestructura Vial - Avance Agosto 1994-Octubre 1995". CONPES Document No. 2830.
December 20
1994a. "Concesi6n del Tramo Central de la Autopista Bogote-Medellfn (Tobiagrande-Pto. Salgar)".
CONPES Document No. 2701. May I 1
. 1994b. "Avances del Programa de Concesion de Carreteras". CONPES Document No. 2686. January
21.
Econ6mica Consultores. 1997. "Estudio para la Implementacion del Sistema de Cargos a los Usuarios". April.
1995. "Estudio de la Evaluaci6n Ex-Post de la Carretera Troncal delMagdalena".
Final Report for DNP. June
INVIAS. 1996. "Carreteras en e]ecuci6n por el Programa de Concesiones". Mayo.
PIV Ingenieria Ltda. - Asetecnica SA. 1997. "Estudios Mantenimiento y Trdfico Carretera La Dorada - San
Alberto". Report for INVIAS. February.
URS Consultants Inc. - PIV Ltda. 1996. "Pron6stico de Trdfico e Ingresospara la Concesi6n El Vino-
Tobiagrande- Pto. Salgar". Final Report and Technical Annexes prepared for lNVIAS. March 16.
*Including electronic files.



Page 60
Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Colombia
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Apr-98
(in US Dollar Millions)
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval            Company         Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1963/90               Coltejer               7.22    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.22    0.00    0.00    0.00
1967/70/74/84/86/87/88   Enka                0.38    0.00    0.00    2.29    0.38    0.00    0.00    2.29
1969/85/88/93/95      CF del VaUe            0.00    7.43    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.43    0.00    0.00
1977/89/92/94/96      Promigas              15.13    1.13    0.00   47.98    9.33    1.13    0.00   33.49
1981/85/87/89191/92/94   Leasing Bolivar     5.40    .25    0.00    0.60    5.40      .25    0.00    0.60
1987                  PRODESAL               0.00    .59    0.00    0.00    0.00      .59    0.00    0.00
1990/92               ODC                    8.67    0.00    0.00   20.33    8.67    0.00    0.00   20.33
1994/95               Corffnansa             3.75    1.43    0.00    0.00    3.75    1.43    0.00    0.00
1995                  Corfinsura            13.06    0.00    0.00    0.00   13.06    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/97               Icollantas             13.00    .46    5.00    0.00   13.00    0.46    5.00    0.00
1996                  Proyectos             10.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  Suleasing             30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                 106.61   16.29    5.00   71.20   61.81   16.29    5.00   56.71
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00



Page 61
Status of Bank Group Operations in Colombia
IBRD Loans and IlDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
As of 28-May-98
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                         disbursements a/
Project ID     Credit      Year               Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                               IBRD        IDA     Cancellations   Undisbursed        Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 156
Active Loans
CO-PE-46112   IBRD42420    1998   GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA              PASTO EDUCATION                   7.20        0.00            0.00          6.94       -0.02       0.00
CO-PE-6891    IBRD42430    1998   GOV OF COLOMBIA                     ANTIOQUIA EDUCATION              40.00        0.00            0.00         40.00        0.39       0.00
CO-PE-40102   IBRD41380    1997   GOVT OF COLOMBIA                    REG.REF.TA                       12.50        0.00            0.00         12.09        1.94       0.00
CO-PE-6884    IBRD41960    1997   GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA              FIN MRKTS DEV TA                 15.00        0.00            0.00         14.65        2.25       0.00
CO-PE-39291   IBRD39730    1996   GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA              URBAN ENVIRONMENT TA             20.00        0.00            0.00         16.66        9.65       0.00
CO-PE-6872    IBRD4021A    1996   BOGOTA DISTRICT GOVERNMEN           URBAN TRANSPORT                  59.59       0.00             0.00         54.49       19.50       0.00
CO-PE-6887    IBRD3954A    1996   GOVT OF COLOMBIA                    POWER MARKET DEVELOP            104.30        0.00            0.00         61.31       49.53      18.38
CO-PE-6887     IBRD39550    1996   GOVT OF COLOMBIA                   POWER MARKET DEVELOP            145.00        0.00            0.00       136.19        49.53      18.38
CO-PE-6894    IBRD39520    1996   GOVERNMENT                          SANTAFE I (WTR/SUPPL             58.00        0.00            0.00         45.65       38.48       0.00
CO-PE-6894     IBRD39530    1996   GOVERNMENT                         SANTAFE I (WTR/SUPPL             87.00        0.00            0.00         69.41       38.48       0.00
CO-PE-6880    IBRD38710    1995   GOVERNMENT OF CLM                   AGRICULTURE TECHNOLO             51.00        0.00            0.00         45.34       19.85       0.00
CO-PE-6893    IBRD38270    1995   GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA              ENERGY TA                        11.00        0.00            0.00          5.78        3.35       0.00
CO-PE-6866    IBRD36830    1994   GOV. OF COLOMBIA                    SECONDARY EDUC                   90.00        0.00            0.00         64.77       32.04       0.00
CO-PE-6868    IBRD36920    1994   GOV OF COLOMBIA                     NATURAL RESOURCE MAN             39.00        0.00            0.00         24.77       10.45       7.75
CO-PE-6889    IBRD36690    1994   GOVERMT OF COLOMBIA                 PUBLIC FINANCIAL MAN             30.00        0.00            0.00         12.09        6.73       0.00
CO-PE-6854     IBRD36150    1993   GOV OF COLOMBIA       IA           MUNICIPAL HEALTH SER             50.00        0.00            0.00         37.37       26.70       7.51
CO-PE-6852     IBRD33360    1991   GOVT OF COLOMBIA                   MUNIC DEVT                       60.00        0.00            0.00          5.05        5.05       0.00
Total                                                                                                 879.59       0.00             0.00       652.56       313.90      52.02
Active Loans         Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 227.01            6,909.26           7,136.27
of which has been repaid:                   7.45           5,410.61            5,418.06
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 872.14            1,519.16           2,391.30
Amount sold                     :                 0.00               50.99               50.99
Of which repaid             :                  0.00               50.99               50.99
Total Undisbursed              :                652.26               20.09              612.65
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based
system will be used (HS - highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio
Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Page 62
Annex 10
Colombia at a glance                                                                8/28/97
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             America  middle-
Colombia   & Carib.  Income        Development diamond
Population mid-1996 (millions)                          37.4       485    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                              2,190      3.710    1,750                 Life expectancy    .
GNP 1996 (billions USS)                                 81.9      1,799    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                           1.8        1.7      1.4      GNP                              Gross
Labor force (%)                                          2.7        2.3      1.8      per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latestyearavailable since 1989)                                 capita                       enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)                19
Urban population (% of total population)                  73        74        56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          70        69        67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                  26        37        41                Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                10
Access to safe water (% of population)                    96         80       78
illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                       9         13                         Colombia
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)    121        110      104
Male                                                     .          ..     105                Lower-middle-Income group
Female                                                  ..         ..      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1985       1996     1996
GDP (billions US$)                             13.1     34.9       78.1     87.3      Economic ratios
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  17.0     19.0       23.5     23.4
Exports of goods and services/GDP              15.8     13.8       17.4      16.6              Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     18.8     20.3       20.4     21.1
Gross national savings/GDP                     16.4     16.9       17.2      17.5
Current account balance/GDP                      ..    -4.6        -5.6     -5.5                                   Ie      n
Interest payments/GDP                           1.0      2.5        1.3       1.9     Savings                      Investment
Total debtGDP                                  28.7     40.8       32.1     33.3
Total debt service/exports                     14.3     40.0       25.0     41.9
Present value of debtGDP                         ..       ..       24.6
Present value of debt/exports                    ..       ..      131.4                            Indebtedness
1976485  1986-96     1995       1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                    -Colombia
GDP                                   3.7       4.2      5.4        2.1      4.1                Lower-middle-income group
GNP per capita                        1.1       2.9      1.6        2.0      2.8
Exports of goods and services         3.1       8.7      2.7        5.2      3.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                    1376      1986      1996      leSs      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                    23.9     17.0       18.9      15.9    e6
Industry                                       29.2     34.6       23.0     19.5      40
Manufacturing                                23.2     21.7       18.8      15.5      20
Services                                       46.9     48.4       58.1     64.6
0
Private consumption                            72.3     69.0       70.4     68.8    -20             92   93   94   95  s9
General government consumption                  8.9     10.7        9.2     10.1                -GDI   -           DP
Imports of goods and services                  14.0     12.5       20.0     19.0                             -
197654  1986-96        1996     1996
(average annual growth)                                                               Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                     2.9      3.1        5.2       1.4     8o
Industry                                        3.3      3.0        3.7     -1.2
Manufacturing                                 2.5      3.2        1.0      -2.5      40
Services                                        4.3      5.3        6.1      3.6      20
Private consumption                             3.6      1.8        5.1     -2.2       0
General government consumption                  6.4      6.9        5.5      11.0                   92   93   94   95   go
Gross domestic investment                       5.0     11.9        9.8      2.6    .20
Imports of goods and services                   5.9     11.8        7.5      0.5                     Export   I     mpof
Gross national product                          3.2      4.8        3.5      3.5                       p .
Note: 1996 date are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete.



Page 63
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996     1996
Domestic prices                                                                     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                         40
Consumer prices                               22.9     24.0      20.9      21.6     3.
Implicit GDP deflator                         22.9     24.9      20.8      21.2    20
Government finance                                                                  10
(% of GDP)                                                                          0 -                 I
Current revenue                                 ..    20.3       30.4      31.6            91   92   93   94   95   98
Current budget balance                          ..      4.3       6.9       8.1              -G DP def. -OCPI
Overall surplusideficit                         ,,    -4.6       -1.4      -2.9
TRADE
1 975    1 985     1996      1 996
(millions USS)                                                                      Export and Import levels (mlil. USS)
Total exports (fob)                             ..   3,650     10,201   10,630      15.000
Coffee                                         ..   1,702      1,832    1,577
Petroleum                                     ..       ..    2,164    2,889
Manufactures                                   ..      ..    5,160    4,879       10.000
Total imports (cif)                                             12,921   12,755
Food                                           .        ..                  ..     5,000oH.IF
Fueland energy                                 ..     466       264       240      
Capital goods                                  ..   1,165      4,776    4,237
Export price index (1987=100)                   ..       ..       145      164             90  91  92  93  94  95  so
Import price index (1987=100)                   ..       ..       267      260                   OExports   Slim ports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                       ..       ..        54       63
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1985      1996      1996
(millions USS)                                                                      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                2,105    4,642     13,771   14,545
Imports of goods and services                2,007    4,989     16,211   16,541
Resource balance                               98      -347     -2,439   -1,997
Net income                                    -318   -1,710     -2,750   -3,401
Net current transfers                           ..     455        797      614       E|            n
Current account balance,                                                          |          Si   92
before official capital transfers             ..  -1,602      -4,393   -4,784    | -3
Financing items (net)                           ..   1,371      4,715    6,356
Changes in net reserves                       111       231      -322   -1,572    .6 l
Memo:                                                                              __1
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)           633    2,202      8,458   10,041
Conversion rate (locaUiUS$)                   30.9    142.3     944.5  1,036.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1996     1996
(millions USS)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         3,758   14,246    25,047   29,069
A
IBRD                                        634    2,399      2,548    2,177
IDA                                          23       18         11       10               G          2177 B
5884            10  D
Total debt service                            314    1,980      4,694    6,443                                  2787
IBRD                                         78      318        604      520                                     E
IDA                                           1        0          1        1                                    1738
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              18       20         73
Official creditors                          111      938       -472    1,531
Private creditors                           216      392      1,109    1,592
Foreign direct investment                    37    1,023      2,501    3,253
Portfolio equity                              0        0        131      -21                        F
18473
World Bank program
Commitments                                  88      490        207      334      A - lBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               106      590        238      152    |  B-IDA    D- Othermultilateral  F-Private
Principal repayments                         34      165        415      351      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                    71      424       -177     -199    1
Interest payments                            45      153        191      170
Net transfers                                27      271       -368     -369
Development Economics                                                                                                8/28/97



Page 64
Annex 11
Toll Road Concession Project
Environmental Assessment Summary
Project Description
The El Vino-San Alberto Toll Road consists of the following components (See Map attached): (i) the operation and
maintenance of the existing, recently constructed two-lane road from El Vino to Villeta (51 lan); this section connects
with Bogota through a four-lane highway; (ii) the rehabilitation, operation and maintenance of the existing, winding
road from Villeta to Honda (72 kIn); the rehabilitation works include overlaying the existing pavement with asphalt
concrete and improving some sections in critical conditions due to landslides and drainage deficiencies; (iii) the
construction, operation and maintenance of a new 68.4-km highway from Tobiagrande to Puerto Salgar, including 19.5
km of tunnels and 2.9 km of bridges; and (iv) the operation and maintenance of the existing road from Honda to San
Alberto (380 km); this section is part of the Troncal del Magdalena Medio highway built between 1985-95.
All these project's components will be given in concession for a 24 year period under the terms of a concession
contract. The concession contract will grant the franchise-holder the right to build the highway between Tobiagrande
and Puerto Salgar and operate the entire project throughout the concession period.
The Project will remove physical constraints in transport and reduce transport costs for goods and passengers in one of
the most strategic road corridors in Colombia. By reducing travel distances and improving road alignments through the
construction of the Tobiagrande-Puerto Salgar link, the project will upgrade transport communications between Bogota
and Medellin - the two most populous and industrialized cities in Colombia - and between Bogota and the Atlantic ports
of Cartagena, Barranquilla and Santa Marta, the origin and destination of over 50 percent of Colombian exports and
imports (in tons). The existing road between Villeta and Honda is rapidly becoming congested. Traffic safety through
this winding road is a serious concern and transport service levels will substantially decrease if no alternate road is
built. Compared to the existing road, the construction of the new road link will bring substantial benefits: (i) the travel
distance would be about 25 percent shorter; average travel time would be reduced by more than 50 percent; and (iii)
costs per vehicle-kilometer for the vehicles diverted to the new road would be reduced by around 50 percent.
The Tobiagrande-Puerto Salgar Road
Without any doubt, the most environmentally sensitive component of the entire concession will be the construction of
the Tobiagrande-Puerto Salgar road link. will be the construction of the Tobiagrande-Puerto Salgar road link. This
68.4-km road starts at km 71+500 of the Bogota-Villeta road, at 767 meters above sea level and links up with the
Magdalena Medio Troncal road 4,1 km north of Puerto Salgar, at 176 m.a.s.l. Fifleen tunnels totaling 19.5 km, the
longest being a 6,000-meter tunnel in the initial segment of the road, and 37 bridges will be built to pernit a maximum
5% slope and a design speed of 70 km/hour. Initially, the road width will be 11 meter but an additional lane is
envisioned in year 10 of the concession. The tunnels will be built using a Tunnel Boring Machine (TBM).
Enviromnental Setting of the Tobiagrande-Puerto Salgar Road
Physical Characteristics. The road traverses the eastern portion of the Eastern Andes Mountain range (Cordillera
Oriental) through a very active, and geologically unstable, series of mountain ranges. The region is notorious for
landslides and mudslides in the Quebrada Negra, one of the tributaries to the Rio Negro. The region is crisscrossed by
deep and narrow valleys and gorges, with high slopes. Most of the project is located in the watershed of the Rio Negro,
a tributary to the Magdalena River. The road wil cut across 76 micro watersheds.
Vegetation Cover and Land Use. Most of the region is dedicated to extensive cattle ranching with some areas
dedicated to sugar cane, specially in the Puerto Salgar area. Most of the Andean forest has been cleared for either cattle
ranching or cooking by rural dwellers. Relicts of the Andean low mountain forest, a type of forest that is threateed to



Page 65
extinction in Colombia, still remain in the deep gorges and canyons of the region. The vegetation cover in these gorges
also play an important role in the control of landslides. Two small forested areas are of singular importance for
biodiversity conservation purposes: a patch of forest in the Rio Negro Canyon and a San Antonio Mountain Range,
which still presents some forested areas. These areas have been preserved because of their inaccessibility.
Socioeconomic Conditions. The road will cross 6 municipalities: Nimaima, Quebradanegra, Utica, Caparrapi and
Puerto Salgar. These largely isolated municipalities have a combined population of 70,000 inhabitants. The prevalence
of poverty in these municipalities is higher than the average for the country. About 70 percent of the population is rural,
devoted to low income activities (daily workers). Municipal governments are quite weak and there is a low coverage of
water, sanitation and health services. Since the construction of the Bogota-Villeta road, there is a small - yet potentially
significant - growth of tourism related activities and construction of leisure homes in the area. The rural setting of the
small towns of the area are also a potential attraction for Bogota city dwellers. Although largely unstudied, some
archaeological sites of some importance, were identified in the Dindal-Guaduero segment of the road.
Analysis of Alternatives
The selection of the final alignment and the technical specifications of the road has been the most important
environmental management toll for this project. This was achieved through an iterative process that entailed the analysis
of various route alignments, the assessment of their environmental impacts, and consultations with affected
communities. As a result, the final road alignment and conceptual design avoids or minimizes most of the potentially
significant environmental and social impacts such as: the need for resettlement is quite low (less than 40 families);
passing through small rural communities has been avoided (this is indeed a highway with out a town); avoiding unstable
areas through the construction of tunnels; minimizing clearing of forest patches through tunnel, bridge construction and
viaducts.
Environmental Impacts
Direct and indirect impacts on soils, vegetation, archaeological sites, and population have been extensively analyzed and
appropriate mitigation and compensation measures have been identified. According to Colombia's environmental law
and regulations (Law 99 of 1993, and decree 1753) the project required and environmental license from the Ministry of
Environment of Colombia, which issued such license in 1996.
Direct Impacts. Main direct environmental impacts include: (i) instability: increased erosion and landslides along the
highly unstable geological formations of the region; (ii) biodiversity: clearing of very small patches of Andean forest
and protective vegetation cover; (iii) resettlement: displacement of about 40 families, all rural, dispersed along the road
corridor; the road will also affect three rural schools; (iv) traffic safety: passing through small rural towns; (v)
archaeological sites: potential for destruction of sites; and (vi) construction management: disposal of earth cuts and
tunnel borings. Extensive hydrogeological studies proved that impacts on water tables from tunnel construction will be
negligible. This risk is further reduced by the TBM technique that will be used that stabilizes the tunnel as tunnel
construction proceeds.
Indirect impacts. Indirect impacts on land use and land speculation, and the potential for disorderly development of
rural towns and villages, have also been identified as important issues along the new road. The potential for disorderly
development is exacerbated by the weak institutional capacity in the municipalities along the road.
Environmental Mitigation and Compensation Measures
As explained above, the principal environmental planning tool has been a careful selection of the road alignment. Most
of the direct impacts have been avoided or minimized through the selected alignment. The construction of 19.5 km of
tunnels avoids the most unstable geological areas and also minimizes the need for vegetation clearing. Bridges and
viaducts further minimize the need for clearing of vegetation. The road will not go through any town and village thus
reducing traffic safety concerns and traffic nuisances.



Page 66
Al mitigation and compensation measures are included in an Environmental Management Plan prepared as part of the
environmental impact assessment report. This plan includes:
Natural Habitats Conservation: establishment of a small yet ecologically significant Andean forest conservation area in
the Rio Negro Canyon; the reserve wil help preserve 200 hectares of sub-Andean forest and protect the most critical
part of the canyon; INVIAS has bought the land and the concessionaire will finance the infrastructure and management
plans for the reserve;
Resettlement: implementation of a relocation plan for displaced rural families; although displacement of families has
been kept top a minimum, around 40 households will need to be relocated. Socioeconomic studies identified the most
vulnerable of these families (about 12 families without land tittles, elderly and/or sick inhabitants, single mother
families, below poverty line or in peril of impoverishment). In addition to housing, all families will receive social and
economic assistance during the relocation process. lNVIAS has developed a comprehensive resettlement and social
policies, and has in-house capabilities to carry out resettlement plans. Affected families have been consulted extensively
and final agreements have been reached with each family. Most families have agreed to new house construction in the
reaming area of their lots. Houses for vulnerable families area being built through agreements with municipalities or
regional and local community associations.
Archaeology: the project wil finance additional studies in the most promising archaeological areas; archaeological
salvage will be carried out before construction starts in these road segments. Chance findings procedures for
management of archaeological sites and artifacts during construction have been incorporated in construction contract.
Stability: In addition to tunnels and viaducts, all critical stability areas have been identified; all cuts will be stabilized
and revegetated. Disposal sites for earth cuts and construction wastes have been identified along the road corridor and
specific drainage and vegetation recovery plans for each site have been designed. All quarry and burrow pits will be
restored and revegetated.
Construction Management: in addition to INVIAS' manual of environmental guidelines for road construction, specific
Tequirement s for the management of construction impacts have been identified: camp and asphalt location restrictions,
dust control, pollution (water, solid wastes) control, revegetation plans, traffic safety during construction, relocation of
infrastructure (oil pipes, three schools,, chance findings, etc. The contractor will be required to have in place an
environmental unit and a community relations office during the construction period. A specific environmental
supervision and monitoring system wiU be implemented by INVIAS to control compliance with environmental
management plans.
Municipal Institutional Strengthening: a municipal institutional strengthening plan has been designed and is being
implemented by INVIAS. This program will: (i) provide technical assistance to municipalities to review, update or
strengthen municipal land use plans and strengthen their enforcement capacity; (ii) finance through a Agreement with
the National Training Service (Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje, SENA) a training program aimed at developing the
basic skills for more than 500 local workers to perform intermediate road construction jobs (topographic survey
assistants, equipment operation and maintenance), thereby allowing them to have access to employment opportnities
generated by the construction of the road; and (iii) implement a community information and consultation program
during the construction period.
Environmental Requirements for the Concession
An environmental annex (Environmental requirements) was included in the bidding documents. This Annex summarzed
all of the environmental specifications and requirements that the concessionaire would have to follow during the
construction and operation of this road. The costs of these measures were incorporated in project costs estimates and
sources of funding (concessionaire, INVIAS) were identified in the Annex. The environmental and social work carried
out for the Tobiagrande-Puerto Salgar road has been adopted by INVIAS as a model for all road concessions. This



Page 67
model is summarized in Box 1.
. .   .:;.: ?.??..3.... 
'-.,ef<, ',   ,????,.,   ',?,,'":??  ??S:''.',,?'???..?  ?   ?  ?????>i??:   :;'?..    :   :.   ,..,,   ...?.,.,?,B   i';.?...'?   $''   ''    = ~ ~ ~ ~ ....  ... ...  ...  .. .. .......  ..
,,.,,.,,::3,,, .?,?i .. ? ii? B?? ?? ? li'?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........  .
2                                                                 ' ?-  - -.B i i'm ? .?- - -.. ,,3 .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   . . . . . .. . . . . .   . . . .
''B3?B ?3 'B?;.. iS-; +-pw',g, ,,, .... br- ? , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......
Box?'3   1.'.3?3B   ' 'vironmen l Managemet                                                                -: Road  sio in Colombia  - .... . .I
i g ii3 . S5 >>> ? ---? . j, ................... ,,.,, '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... . ... . .. .... ...
- S B?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.? ......    33  ....   .......            .. . ..    ...  s   j. ....
?      Env irom na  im ac B             se         n  of ne    contrutin            . o3Scts,  cotace b' i3IA 'Bth consultants?B                ii
under terms of reference agreed with the Ministry ~~~~~~~~fEnvi..omuent
under~~~~~.- te......rne.sa..h..yth                       insiyoBvio..nn
:        ng                                     road con. truction, ;N3.-                own manual
; j; Bij?gi ??i.w.jofj.?0m.duilSItj; ... . 3i: ? ,B'g iti ,:.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ..    .......... .....
?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s                                                                                            . . -?Bi'.....i .:.',: -, g''.";..3 .. '' i':?
.,,., ,,,.,,,,e . .,,,,,,, ........................ >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... ......    .....       ..... ....... .
.onditionalities and egvironmenal monito,ng; requi. eme,ts
,, . 0 f?,,, ,,,,,,,,,,,,,, nt ?S>' ? & ???? '? ,, . . :g ij; g;; 3???B j ??? g: ,...           . ... ....    F                    .........B
reference.front TN VIA.S orby   NVIS          .u-Dr......f.n.rom nt                           ... 
SBB B   ?    *BBB    it?B    mw    ;d   fi   -.   :,??, . B s; ''" ? B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:':-~ .   .....
froro metlMngmnCaaiyn INVIAS IVI.sscastf
Th Land macqiiinagplent capacity* surVey hasrredout byg cosltants unde quaityadownershp Tnd format
Natona R ad           lanto  Prssess.t  n cLarre ou53-     by theque Coomid suprtealtors AssoeiatheiongoanEUitnth
.hn(19)winexitinglMnistr of Pbicdn Works;nths fonite wasnlaertran.fre  oIVA   n  lcda h  ihs
hirrcia lenvirnental SubDiectorate~adrs in for.Eviononnad Soci.al                            n Affaicrng: environment,sc      al and comnt afis
speia inst it,tsoi al sc entstos,geograpers, sof          ilw res   n    ayr.I   t   ieyaso    xsec,i a                                         eeoe
inoasieunwitrcpaben          of addressiong; enviAonen(land cusitoia issesettlement srojct s,istanc re rognizdampatoh
deiso makicg proessehf INIASTed workof chane unditgs eofvdfo  the srifmcts nrewpaaignmofentvpronmosals
irpat tuir .es and mandgmn cand Cofs constrctone*mpacts,itonran( *nertdapoc.ora  lnigwihcvr
indirect and  rnduceddervesltopment ba cts en    nta ad rional level.oTheupproacn         h also *ncludes social.assessment.of
ac        Evcrnmenat social and eut  aaees* land apqicasi            eset.Seca  osdrtion responsibilitmiies                                  with tn cocesinar
titls  Padasesenali s  aore nncompliacted out enithregonmnal anRe calto  comanies.ThSu-ietreiswkngote
envabironmenta Mareinageen Caterhpacwity  eeatgvrmn  n  ongvrmnaraiain in                                                                      orderAt
*thgae envronmenrtaltmnaemn t capaos ity rinionalASushasareachedelhightlevelniof.quality                                      haandlownership.      anThe
National cerofcatior Projectg(Loanra4m.-CO) required and supported the strengthening of an Environmental Unit in the
then (1992) existing Ministry of Publc Works; this unit was later transfe.ed.to..N...S.and.placed at.the.highes
hierarchical level. a..   Su-ietr. fo   Eniomn.n.oca.far:evrom n,sca.n   cm                                                               ui afis
an  ln  aqiston   heSb-iecoat  oue amltdicplnrygou   f but5  egner, nirnena
specialists,~~~~~... socia  scintsts -gogrphrs  soilwokr,an.ayrs.nis.ieyer.fe.sec.thsdeeoe
........to...... a.kile.uitcpaleofadresngenirnm ntlan   scil sse.o  radprjet,.it.rconie.ipat.n.h
decision making process of INVIAS. The work of the unit has evolved from  the simple preparation of environmental~~~~~~~~~..........  .......... 
impact stuies and mnagement ad of consruction ipacts, to  n integraed.approah to.road.lanning.wich .cover
indirect and induced development impacts at the regional level. The approach also includes social assessment of~~~~~..   .. ........
affected population........ and anlss.fvlnrbe.ouatosaspr.o.nadpe.rstle etpoiywhc.aksit
account social and equity parameters in land price assessments. Special consideration is given to families with no land~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... .....
tittles. Land assessments are contracted out with regional Realtor companies. The Sub-Directorate is working on the~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... .....
establishment of regional~~~~~~.   patnrsip.it.rlean.ovrn en.adno-gvenm nalora.zainsinorert
integrate transportation  corridors with regional sustainable development planning. INVIAS  has also started an ISO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... ......... . ...
1400  cetifcatin pogrm .



Page 68
Community Consultation
Public hearings, as required by Colombia's environmental law were held in each of the municipalities along the
corridor. Consultations with affected communities resulted in changes in the initial route location to avoid passing
through or close to some villages and sensitive areas. The location of the tollgates was determined by lNVIAS based on
consultations with municipalities along the corridor. Specific consultation programs were developed for the families to
be relocated. These programs identified the most vulnerable families and the attitudes of the families towards a
resettlement solution. Local community associations (Juntas Comunales) have been involved in the identification of
housing and social assistance solutions for the families to be resettled.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 28785
Mo NO R T    D                            oCOLOMBIA
So Abeo                                                   ~~~~~~CONCESSION PROJECT
f AtA ES EDS-AMt/                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROJECT LOCATION  AND
COLOMBIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ROAD  LINKS
ECUADOR/                       0
PERu                                                                                                                                                               ...... E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L VINO VILLETA JOPERATION AND
)                     I                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A NTDNANC.D  M
V ALLETA-HQNDA IREHABILITATION, OPERATION
AND MA NTENANCE, 72 KM.)
oe ...... b-.  ~ ~  ~      ~     ~      Boo tsng                                                           - TOE AGRANDEPTTO. SALGAR (NEW CCNSTRUCTION,
D.belbo,                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OPERAT ON AND MAINTENANCE,68KMt.t
..... ALONDA LA DOTADA-SAN ALBERTO (OPERATION
AND MA NTENANCE, 280 KM.)
c~~~~~~c  A   N, T I 0  U   I A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                   OTHER NAT ONAL HIGHWAYS U,NDER INVIAD
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.22 EX ST NG ROADS
FPROPOSED RESERVE OF SUB-ANDEAN
FOREST [AROUT 220 Ho) IDEE INSET)
EsEVAD ONS OVER 1,0DD METERS
Q   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00055DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
Proposed Reserve of Sub-Andean Forest
L. D-d                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Co, Pl.I. 
c  OF SUB-ANDEAN FORE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I   D
y                                                                    o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.s~  251515E ,Et5pDoAo,II 75ro     [2                                 E
M.q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*C
MAY T99E



