Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4370-CO
Loan Agreement
(Toll Road Concession Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 4, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4370-CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 4, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Sociedad Concesionaria del Magdalena 
Medio S.A. (the Concessionaire), a company established and operating under the laws of 
the Borrower; the Concessionaire’s work will be supervised, pursuant to the terms and 
conditions of the Contract (as defined below) inter alia, by the Borrower’s National 
Road Institute (Instituto Nacional de Vías) (hereinafter INVIAS); INVIAS, an agency of 
the Borrower established and operating under the Borrower’s Decree No. 2171 of 
December 30, 1992 issued by the Borrower’s President pursuant to the special powers 
conferred upon him by Provisional Article No. 20 of the Borrower’s Constitution, will 
make its equity contributions to the Project in accordance with Clause 18.2 of the 
Contract (as defined below); in order to enable such equity contributions, the 
Borrower has made or will make (as the case may be) available to INVIAS an amount 
identical, in the aggregate, to the amount of the Loan, as provided in this Agreement; 
and the Borrower will use the proceeds of the Loan for general budgetary purposes; and
(C)
the Concessionaire has been awarded the contract for the execution of the 
Project under international competitive biding procedures No. SCO-LO1-97 and, for that 
Page  2
purpose, has entered with INVIAS into the Concession Contract dated December 15, 1997 
(the Contract); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
INVIAS;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Contribution” means each of the three equity contributions to be made by 
INVIAS for the Project pursuant to the provisions of the Contract, and in particular, 
to Clause 18.2 thereof;
(b)
“Environmental Impact Assessment” means (Estudio de Impacto Ambiental) 
dated March 1997, sent to the Bank’s Public Information Center on October 16, 1997;
(c)
“Environmental Management Plan” means the environmental management plan 
included in the fourth chapter of the Environmental Impact Assessment;
(d)
“Interventor” means the external supervision services to be hired by 
INVIAS pursuant to Clause 39 of the Contract and Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement, 
and to be maintained pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) (iii) of the Project Agreement;
(e)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and INVIAS of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(f)
“Resettlement Plan” means the actions to be taken for the resettlement of 
12 families (about 60 individuals), including indemnification or other compensation to 
be received by said families and/or individuals, as provided for in Chapter 4 of the 
Environmental Impact Assessment;
(g)
“Social Assistance Program” means a program provided for in Chapter 4 of 
the Environmental Impact Assessment Plan for the establishment of community 
consultation offices along the alignment of roads included in the Project, the 
provision of technical assistance to municipal authorities to strengthen land use 
plans in the area of influence of said roads and the establishment of specific 
environmental restrictions for Project construction, including camp location and 
disposal sites;
(h)
“Table” means the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(i)
“Technical Agreement” means  each of the agreements to be entered  by the 
Concessionaire with one or more of its shareholders as provided for in Clause 2.1.1 
(iii) of the Contract, which agreement will contain stipulations in favor of INVIAS 
whereby the shareholders in question will have assumed, jointly and severally with the 
Concessionaire, some of the obligations of the latter under the Contract, providing 
thus INVIAS, who has accepted said stipulations in the Contract, with direct recourse 
against the corresponding shareholder or shareholders in connection with the 
obligations in question;
Page  3
(j)
“Technical Assistant” means each of the parties, other than the 
Concessionaire, including shareholders of the Concessionaire, to a Technical 
Agreement;
(k)
“Total Expected Revenue” means the Concessionaire’s “Ingreso Esperado”, 
as defined in Clause 1.40 of the Contract; and
(l)
“Trust Account” means any of “Fideicomiso I” (Trust I) or “Fideicomiso 
II” (Trust II), as the terms are defined in the Contract, and as applicable pursuant 
to the provisions of Clause 6.2 of such Contract, and “Trustee” means the trustee(s) 
for any such Trust Account.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred thirty seven million one hundred thousand dollars ($137,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for Contributions made 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause INVIAS, and through INVIAS, cause the Concessionaire, to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement: (i) all the obligations of 
INVIAS  therein set forth in matters other than those governed by the Contract; and 
(ii) all the respective obligations of INVIAS and the Concessionaire under the 
Contract. Furthermore, the Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds necessary or appropriate to enable INVIAS to perform 
such obligations in respect of the Project Agreement, and shall not take or permit to 
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.06, 9.07 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to plans and 
schedules, records and reports, and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried 
out by INVIAS pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. To the extent the Project shall be constructed and operated by a 
concessionaire (including the Concessionaire) who has been awarded the concession 
contract (including the Contract) on the basis of international competitive bidding 
Page  4
procedures in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank on January 1995, as 
revised on January and August 1996 and September 1997, the goods, works and services 
required for the construction of the Project shall be procured in accordance with the 
applicable procedures of the said concessionaire.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall not submit withdrawal applications in respect 
of Loan proceeds allocated to Categories 2 or 3 of the Table before each of the Second 
and Third Contribution, respectively, has been deposited in the Trust Account(s) or 
without attaching thereto the evidence required by the provisions of paragraph 3 (b) 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Bank
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
INVIAS shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that INVIAS will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement or the 
Contract, or that the Concessionaire will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Contract.
(c)
Decree No. 2171 of the Borrower, dated December 30, 1992 shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of INVIAS to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action threatening the actual liquidation of INVIAS or the suspension of its 
operations.
(e)
The Contract shall have been terminated.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Bank to the Borrower; provided, however, that the provisions of this 
Section shall not apply if the obligation in question consists of furnishing to the 
Bank reports, plans or records, or other type of information.
(b)
Any of the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) of Section 4.01 
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
(i)
the minutes of commencement of the construction stage, as defined 
in Clause 
1.1. of the Contract, have been executed and delivered on 
behalf of INVIAS and 
the Concessionaire; 
(ii)
INVIAS shall have submitted to the Bank a report showing, to the 
satisfaction 
of the Bank, that INVIAS, the Concessionaire and each of the 
Technical 
Assistants are in compliance with all their 
respective obligations under 
Clause 2.1 of the Contract, and 
Page  5
each of the Technical Agreements; and 
(iii)
the list of amicable settlers required under Clause 35.1 of the 
Contract has 
been agreed upon between INVIAS and the Concessionaire;  
(b)
(i)
INVIAS has hired the services of the Interventor required for 
purposes of 
Clause 39th of the Contract; 
(ii)
the Concessionaire has made, for these purposes, the payments 
required under 
Clause 39.5 of the Contract; and 
(iii)
and the terms of reference for the Interventor are in compliance 
with the 
provisions of the Contract and cover, inter alia, to 
the satisfaction of the 
Bank, the supervision and control of: (A) the 
execution of the construction of 
the Tobiagrande - Puerto Salgar road 
link and other Project works in 
accordance with the Contract; (B) 
the Concessionaire’s compliance with the 
technical 
specifications and performance standards set forth in the Contract 
for construction, maintenance and operation of the Project road network; (C) 
the compliance by the parties to the Contract with the requirements of the 
Project’s Environmental Management Plan (comprising also the 
Resettlement Plan 
and the Social Assistance Program) and of any ad-hoc 
plan to be carried out 
pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project 
Agreement; (D) the uses of Project 
funds and audits, both 
according to the requirements required under the 
Contract; and 
(E) the verification of Project revenues, as stipulated in the 
Contract for the purpose of determining the progress made towards meeting the 
Total Expected Revenue target; and
(c)
all of the Technical Agreements have been executed and delivered in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by INVIAS, and is legally binding upon INVIAS in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date of March 4, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance and Public Credit
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustín
Carrera 7A, No. 6-45, Piso 3,
Santa Fe de Bogotá
Colombia
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINHACIENDA
43289 MHAC CO
For the Bank:
Page  6
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Luis Alberto Moreno Mejía 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Andrés Solimano  
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
First Contribution
37,100,000
100% of amounts
deposited by
INVIAS in the
applicable Trust
Account
(2)
Second Contribution
40,000,000
100% of amounts
deposited by
INVIAS in the
applicable Trust
Account
(3)
Third Contribution
60,000,000
100% of amounts
deposited by INVIAS
in the applicable Trust
Account
__________
Page  7
TOTAL
      137,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the terms “First Contribution”, “Second 
Contribution” and “Third Contribution” mean the chronological order in which each 
Contribution has been or will be made, as the case may be.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of the 
Contract i.e. December 15, 1997; (b) payments made for expenditures under Categories 2 
or 3 of the Table unless the Interventor, through INVIAS, has furnished to the Bank 
certifications to the effect that: (i) INVIAS, the Concessionaire and each of the 
Technical Assistants are in compliance with their respective obligations under the 
Contract or under the corresponding Technical Agreement, as the case may be, in 
respect of: (A) the applicable matters listed in (A) through (D) of paragraph (b) 
(iii) of Section 5.01 of this Loan Agreement; and (B) other matters within the terms 
of reference of the Interventor that the Bank may have reasonably requested from time 
to time; (ii) the biannual audits of the applicable Trust Account required by, and 
performed in compliance with, Clauses 5.9 and 5.22 of the Contract, for the applicable 
six-month period next preceding the date of the corresponding withdrawal application, 
provides an unqualified opinion on the use (or lack thereof, all in accordance with 
the provisions of such Clause 5.22) of the Borrower’s or INVIAS funds deposited in the 
applicable Trust Account; and (iii) there are no reasons to qualify said opinion for 
accounting variations or adjustments, if any, since the end of the corresponding 
six-month period covered by each such audit and a date preceding by five working days 
the date of the withdrawal application in question.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve transport conditions along a 
strategic road corridor linking the Borrower’s cities of Bogotá and Medellín, and the 
ports on the north coast of the Borrower’s territories through an effective and 
sustainable private-public partnership through: (a) reducing transport costs and 
improving the level of service by building and upgrading key sections along the said 
corridor; (b) attracting and maintaining adequate private services to mobilize equity 
and debt through more favorable financing structures than those attained in previous 
road concessions in the Borrower’s territories, and financing road improvements and 
managing operations; and (c) strengthening INVIAS’ capacity to prepare future road 
concession projects and putting into effect key policies for sustainable development 
of highway corridors.
The Project consists of the following activities, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Execution, through a concession mechanism, of:
(a)
Studies and final designs for the rehabilitation and construction works, 
and the provision of road services, all as mentioned below and located in each of the 
following Departments (each Department being a political subdivision of the Borrower): 
Cundinamarca, Tolima, Caldas, Santander y César.
(b)
Provision of road services, subject to toll, through: (i) operation and 
maintenance of the road El Vino-Tobia Grande Intersection-Villeta (about 51 
kilometers); (ii) rehabilitation, operation and maintenance of the road Villeta-Honda 
(about 72 kilometers); (iii) construction, operation and maintenance of the road Tobia 
Grande Intersection-Puerto Salgar Intersection (about 68 kilometers), including the 
construction of about 37 bridges and viaducts and about 15 tunnels; and (iv) operation 
and maintenance of the road Honda-Dorada-San Alberto (about 380 kilometers).
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  8
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.
B.
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
Page  9
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each May 
15 and November 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after November 15, 2013, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
