Page  1
CONFORMED COPY  
CREDIT NUMBER 2970 MLI 
CREDIT NUMBER 2971 MAU 
CREDIT NUMBER 2972  SN
Joint Project Agreement
(Regional Hydropower Development Project)
among
REPUBLIC OF MALI and  
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA and 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL  
and ORGANISATION POUR LA MISE EN VALEUR DU FLEUVE SENEGAL and  
SOCIETE DE GESTION DE L'ENERGIE DE MANANTALI and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 10, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2970 MLI 
CREDIT NUMBER 2971 MAU 
CREDIT NUMBER 2972 SN
JOINT PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 10, 1997, among REPUBLIC OF MALI (hereinafter called 
Mali), ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA (hereinafter called Mauritania), REPUBLIC OF 
SENEGAL (hereinafter called Senegal), the ORGANISATION POUR LA MISE EN VALEUR DU 
FLEUVE SENEGAL (hereinafter called OMVS), the SOCIETE DE GESTION DE L’ENERGIE DE 
MANANTALI (hereinafter called SOGEM) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) by development credit agreements of even date herewith between 
Mali, Mauritania and Senegal, respectively, and the Association (hereinafter called 
the Mali Credit Agreement, the Mauritania Credit Agreement, and the Senegal Credit 
Agreement, respectively), the Association has agreed to make available to Mali an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to SDR 12,600,000, to Mauritania an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to SDR 8,100,000, and to Senegal an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to SDR 7,700,000, on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Development Credit Agreements (as such term is defined hereinafter), but only on 
condition that Mali, Mauritania, Senegal, OMVS and SOGEM agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
the proceeds of the Credits (as such term is defined hereinafter) will be 
made available to SOGEM and OMVS, respectively, on the terms and conditions 
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS Mali, Mauritania, Senegal, OMVS and SOGEM in consideration of the 
Association's entering into the Development Credit Agreements, have agreed to 
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall 
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Mali Development Credit Agreement, 
Page  2
in the Mauritania Development Credit Agreement, in the Senegal Credit Agreement, in 
the General Conditions (as so defined) and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
“Development Credit Agreements” mean the Mali Development Credit 
Agreement, the Mauritania Development Credit Agreement, and the Senegal Development 
Credit Agreement;
(b)
“Credits” mean the credits provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreements, and the terms “Credit Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Sections 
2.02, respectively, of the Development Credit Agreements;
(c)
“fiscal year” or “FY” means, with respect to SOGEM, the period January 1 
through December 31 in each year;
(d)
“Closing Date” means the date specified in Sections 2.03, respectively, 
of the Development Credit Agreements;
(e)
“SEM” means Société d’Exploitation de Manantali, the private operator to 
be employed by SOGEM pursuant to Section 4.05 of this Agreement;
(f)
“SNEs” means Sociétés Nationales d’Eléctricité, the respective power 
utilities in Mali, Mauritania and Senegal;
(g)
“Environmental Mitigation Plan” means the plan dated May 30, 1997 
containing actions, procedures, timetables, and other arrangements designed to 
mitigate the Project’s potential adverse impact on the environment, including 
procedures, measures and timetables designed to remedy the environment and health 
problems, and income loss caused by the Manantali dam to the population living in the 
area surrounding the dam site;
(h)
“the Tariffs Agreement” means the agreement of May 30, 1997  between the 
Borrowers, SOGEM and the SNEs setting out the principles, mechanisms, and procedures 
for the determination of the tariffs of the electric power generated by the Manantali 
hydropower station; and
(i)
“Power Sector Restructuring Plans” means the action plans adopted by Mali 
on June 2, 1997, Senegal on May 30, 1997 and Mauritania on May 30, 1997, designed to 
improve the financial position of their respective power sectors. 
ARTICLE II
Undertakings of the Borrowers Execution 
of the Project and other Covenants
Section 2.01. (a) The Borrowers declare their commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of their other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreements, or this Agreement, the Borrowers shall exercise any right, power or 
remedy available to the Borrowers as a signatory of the OMVS Conventions and the SOGEM 
Convention, or otherwise, so as to permit, or cause, OMVS and SOGEM to perform all the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrowers shall relend out of the proceeds of the Credits provided 
for in the Mauritania Credit Agreement and in the Senegal Credit Agreements, 
respectively, and the amount allocated from time to time to Categories 1 (a), 2 (a) 
and 3 (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Mali Credit Agreement, to 
SOGEM under agreements to be entered into between each of the Borrowers and SOGEM, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association and which 
shall include: (i) a repayment period of at least twenty years, including a grace 
period not to exceed five (5) years, (ii) an interest rate of 7 percent per annum, 
(iii) the principal amount of the SOGEM Subsidiary Loans shall be the equivalent in 
CFA of the amounts of the Credit Accounts under the Project (such equivalent shall be 
determined as of the dates, or respective dates of repayment), and (iv) provisions 
whereby SOGEM undertakes that, except as the Borrowers shall otherwise agree, if SOGEM 
Page  3
shall create any lien on any of its assets as security for any loan made to the 
Borrowers for the financing of the Project, such lien will equally and ratably secure 
the payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the SOGEM 
Subsidiary Loans. 
(c)
Mali shall make available, out of the proceeds of the Credit provided for 
under the Mali Development Credit Agreement, the amount allocated to Categories 1 (b), 
2 (b), and (3 (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Mali Development 
Credit Agreement, to OMVS, on a grant basis, under an agreement to be entered into 
between Mali and OMVS, and under terms and conditions which shall have been approved 
by the Association.
(d)
The Borrowers shall exercise their rights under the SOGEM Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrowers and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrowers shall not amend, abrogate, or waive 
the SOGEM Subsidiary Loans Agreements, or any provision thereof.
(e)
Mali shall exercise its rights under the OMVS Subsidiary Grant Agreement 
in such manner as to protect the interests of Mali and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrowers shall not amend, abrogate, or waive the OMVS Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement, or any provision thereof.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon any other provision of this 
Agreement, the Borrowers undertake, whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that 
the funds available to SOGEM or OMVS will be inadequate to meet the estimated 
expenditures required for the carrying out of the Project or inadequate to permit 
SOGEM or OMVS to comply with its obligations under the Joint Project Agreement, to 
make arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, promptly to provide SOGEM or OMVS, 
or cause SOGEM or OMVS to be provided, with such funds as are needed to meet such 
expenditures or to comply with such obligations.
Section 2.03. The Borrowers, OMVS, SOGEM and the Association hereby agree that 
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the 
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in 
respect of: (a) Parts A, B, and C.1 of the Project shall be carried out by SOGEM; and 
(b) Part C.2 of the Project shall be carried out by OMVS.
ARTICLE III
Undertakings of OMVS and SOGEM
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) SOGEM and OMVS declare their commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement and, to this end:
(i) 
SOGEM shall carry out Parts A, B, and C.1 of the 
Project described in said Schedule with due diligence 
and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, 
financial, engineering, power utility 
and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and 
other resources required for the purpose; and
(ii) 
OMVS shall carry out Part C.2 of the Project described 
in said Schedule with due diligence and efficiency and 
in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, 
engineering, power utility and environmental 
practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other 
resources 
required for the purpose.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SOGEM shall carry out Parts A, B, 
and C.1 of the Project and OMVS shall carry out Part C.2 of the Project, all in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  4
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the works, goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credits shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) SOGEM and OMVS, respectively, shall, at the request of the 
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts 
A, B, and C.1 and Part C.2, respectively, of the Project, the performance of their 
respective obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Credits; and 
(b)
SOGEM and OMVS, respectively, shall promptly inform the Association of 
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A, 
B, and C.1 and Part C.2, respectively, of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credits, or the performance by SOGEM and OMVS of their respective 
obligations under this Agreement. 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, SOGEM 
and OMVS, respectively, shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the SOGEM and OMVS, 
respectively, and the Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement 
of the objectives of Parts A, B and C.1, and Part C.2, respectively, of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
SOGEM and OMVS, respectively, on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV
Undertakings of SOGEM: Management and Operations of SOGEM
Section 4.01. SOGEM shall: (a) carry out its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, commercial, financial, engineering, 
environmental, and power utility practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and (b) duly 
exercise all responsibilities entrusted to it under the SOGEM Convention.
Section 4.02. SOGEM shall take out and maintain, or cause to be taken and 
maintained, with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the 
Association for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be 
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. SOGEM shall at all times operate and maintain, or cause to be 
operated and maintained, its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, including 
the Manantali dam, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make, or cause to be 
made, all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and public utility practices.
Section 4.04. (a) In accordance with the terms of the SOGEM Convention, SOGEM 
shall take all action necessary on its part to maintain its legal existence and right 
to carry on its operations and shall take all steps necessary on its part to acquire, 
maintain and renew such licenses, consents, franchises or other rights as may be 
necessary or useful for its operations; and
(b)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SOGEM shall not sell, 
lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets which shall be 
required for the efficient conduct of its operations.
Section 4.05. In accordance with the terms of the SOGEM Convention, SOGEM shall 
not later than March 31, 2000, employ, under a contract awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, a private operator to be in 
charge of the operation, maintenance and renewal of the Manantali dam, the hydropower 
station to be constructed under Part A of the Project, and the transmission systems to 
be constructed under Part B of the Project, all under terms and conditions which shall 
Page  5
have been approved by the Association, including a duration of at least fifteen years.
ARTICLE V
Undertakings of SOGEM: Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) SOGEM shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition, 
including its operations in respect to Parts A, B, and C.1 of the Project.
(b)
SOGEM shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
related statements), including those for the SOGEM 
Special 
Account, for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six (6) months after the end of 
each 
such year: (A) certified copies of  its financial 
statements for such 
year as so audited, and (B) the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association 
shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and financial 
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the 
Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SOGEM shall 
produce for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 
1997, total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of its: (i) total operating 
expenses, and (ii) the amount by which debt service requirements exceed the provision 
for depreciations. 
(b)
Before November 30 in each of its fiscal years, SOGEM shall, on the basis 
of forecasts prepared by SOGEM and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the 
next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association the results of such 
review upon its completion. 
(c)
If any such review shows that SOGEM would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for SOGEM's fiscal years covered by such review, SOGEM shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For purposes of this Section: 
(i)
The term "total revenues" means the sum of total 
operating revenues and net non-operating income. 
(ii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from 
all sources related to operations.
(iii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the 
difference between: 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those 
related to operations; and 
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in 
(A) above. 
(iv)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses 
Page  6
related to operations, including administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes, and 
provision for depreciation on a 
straight-line basis at a 
rate of not less than 3% per 
annum of the average current gross value 
of SOGEM's 
fixed assets in operation, or other basis acceptable 
to 
the Association, but excluding interest and other 
charges on debt. 
(v)
The average current gross value of SOGEM’s fixed assets 
in operation shall be calculated as one half of the sum 
of the 
gross value of SOGEM's fixed assets in operation 
at the beginning and 
at the end of the fiscal year, as 
valued from time to time in 
accordance with sound and 
consistently maintained methods of valuation 
satisfactory to the Association.
(vi)
The term "debt service requirements" means the 
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking fund 
payments, if any) of, and interest and other charges 
on, debt. 
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be 
necessary to value, in terms of CFAF, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the 
basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at 
which such other currency 
is, at the time of such 
valuation, obtainable for the purposes 
of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the 
Association.
Section 5.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SOGEM shall not 
incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of SOGEM 
shows that the projected internal cash generation of SOGEM for each fiscal year during 
the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least equal to the projected debt 
service requirement of SOGEM in such year on all debt of SOGEM, including the debt to 
be incurred. For the purposes of this Section:
(a)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of SOGEM maturing by its terms 
more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(b)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or further modification of its 
terms of payment, on the date of such contract, agreement or instrument; and (ii) 
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee 
has been entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt shall be 
outstanding.
(c)
The term "internal cash generation of SOGEM" means gross revenues of 
SOGEM from all sources, adjusted to take account of SOGEM's rates in effect at the 
time of the incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect during the 
twelve-month period to which such revenues relate, less all operating expenses of 
SOGEM, including expenses accountable to administration, maintenance and taxes (or 
payments in lieu of taxes), but before provision for depreciation of assets and 
interest, and other charges on debt.
(d)
The term "debt service requirement" means the aggregate amount of 
amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other 
charges on, debt.
(e)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by SOGEM in the 
fiscal year in which the debt in question is to be incurred, which both the 
Association and SOGEM accept as reasonable and as to which the Association has 
notified SOGEM of its acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or may reasonably be expected in the future to have, a 
material adverse effect on the financial condition or future operating results of 
SOGEM.
(f)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value, 
in terms of currency of the Borrowers, debt payable in another currency, such 
Page  7
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at 
which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, with absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate 
of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SOGEM shall 
generate, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 
2001, funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than ten percent (10%) of the 
annual average of the capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for 
that year, the previous fiscal year and following fiscal year.
(b)
Before November 30 in each of its fiscal years, SOGEM shall, on the basis 
of forecasts prepared by SOGEM and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such fiscal year 
and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association a copy of such 
review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that SOGEM would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for SOGEM's fiscal years covered by such review, SOGEM shall 
promptly take all necessary measures in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
the term “funds from internal sources” means the 
difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
electric power operations, consumer deposits and 
consumer contributions in aid of construction, 
net 
non-operating income and any reduction in 
working 
capital other than cash; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to electric power 
operations, including administration, adequate 
maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes 
(excluding provision for depreciation and 
other non-cash 
operating charges), debt service 
requirements, all cash dividends 
and other cash 
distributions of surplus, increase in working 
capital other than cash and other cash outflows 
other than capital expenditures;
(ii)
the terms “net non-operating income” means the 
difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those 
related to electric power operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in 
(A) above;
(iii)
the term “working capital other than cash” means the 
difference between current assets excluding cash and 
current liabilities at the end of each fiscal year;
(iv)
the term “current assets excluding cash” means assets 
other than cash which would in the ordinary course of 
business be converted into cash within twelve months, 
including 
accounts receivable, marketable securities, 
inventories and pre-paid 
expenses properly chargeable 
to operating expenses within the next 
fiscal year;
(v)
the term “current liabilities” means all liabilities 
which will become due and payable or could, under 
circumstances then existing be called for payment 
within twelve 
months, including accounts payable, 
customer advances, taxes 
and payments in lieu of taxes, 
and dividends;
Page  8
(vi)
the term “debt service requirements” means the 
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking fund 
payments, if any) of, and interest and other charges 
on, debt;
(vii)
the term “capital expenditures” means all expenditures 
incurred on  account of fixed assets, including 
interest charged to construction, related to electric 
power 
operations; and
(viii) whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it shall be 
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the 
Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such 
valuation 
shall be made on the basis of the prevailing 
lawful rate of exchange at 
which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, 
obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence 
of 
such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange 
acceptable to the Association.
Section 5.05. SOGEM shall at all times make adequate annual provisions for the 
depreciation and renewal of its fixed assets, and the servicing of its debt in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, acceptable to the Association.
Section 5.06. The Borrowers and SOGEM shall take all necessary measures to 
ensure that, accounts receivable shall not be outstanding for more than 90 days after 
the date of billing.
Section 5.07. SOGEM shall consult with the Association annually on its budget, 
including its expenditures for personnel, and its investment program.
Section 5.08. Not later than June 30, 2002, SOGEM shall establish, in accordance 
with terms of reference acceptable to the Association, a fund to cover the risk of low 
hydrology, and thereafter make adequate annual provisions to cover such risk.
ARTICLE VI
Undertakings of OMVS: Management and Operations of OMVS
Section 6.01. OMVS shall: (a) carry out its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, financial and environmental practices under 
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers; and (b) duly exercise all responsibilities entrusted upon it by the 
OMVS Conventions.
Section 6.02. OMVS shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE VII
Undertakings of OMVS: Financial Covenants
Section 7.01. (a) OMVS shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition, 
including its operations in respect to Part C.2 of the Project.
(b)
OMVS shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
related statements), including those for the OMVS 
Special 
Account, for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six (6) months after the end of 
each 
Page  9
such year: (A) certified copies of its financial 
statements for such 
year as so audited, and (B) the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association 
shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and financial 
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the 
Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 8.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which both Development Credit Agreements shall have become effective.
Section 8.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of Mali, Mauritania, 
Senegal, OMVS, SOGEM and the Association thereunder shall terminate on the date on 
which the Mali Development Credit Agreement, the Mauritania Development Credit 
Agreement and the Senegal Development Credit Agreement shall have terminated in 
accordance with their terms; or
(b)
If the Mali Development Credit Agreement, the Mauritania and the Senegal 
Development Credit Agreement terminate in accordance with their terms before the date 
specified in paragraph (a) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify 
SOGEM and OMVS of this event.
Section 8.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 9.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For Mali:
Minister of Finance and Commerce
Bamako
Republic of Mali
Telex:
2559
For Mauritania:
Minister of Planning
B.P. 238
Nouakchott
Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Cable address:
Telex:
MPNouakchott
540 MTN
Page  10
For Senegal:
Minister of Economy, Finance 
  and Planning
Rue Charles Lainé
Dakar
Republic of Senegal
Cable address:
Telex:
MINIFINANCES
3203G
For OMVS
Haut Commissariat 
BP: 3152
Dakar
Republic of Senegal
Telex
670 ORMIVAS
For SOGEM:
Société de Gestion de l'Energie de Manantali
Direction Générale
B.P. 3152
Dakar
Republic of Senegal
Telex
670 ORMIVAS
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
 197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
 248423 (RCA)
  64145 (WUI)
  82987 (FTCC)
Section 9.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Borrowers 
may be taken pursuant to Section 6.01 of the Development Credit Agreements and Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions in the same manner as if such action were taken under 
the Development Credit Agreements.
Section 9.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of OMVS may be 
taken or executed by OMVS's High Commissioner or such other person or persons as OMVS 
shall designate in writing, and OMVS shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 9.04. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SOGEM may be 
taken or executed by SOGEM's Director General or such other person or persons as SOGEM 
shall designate in writing, and SOGEM shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
Page  11
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 9.05. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
REPUBLIC OF MALI
By /s/ Cheick Oumar Diarrah 
Authorized Representative
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
By /s/ Ahmed Ould Sid’Ahmed 
Authorized Representative
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /s/ Mamadou Mansour Seck 
Authorized Representative
ORGANISATION POUR LA MISE EN VALEUR DU 
  FLEUVE SENEGAL
By /s/ Cheick Oumar Diarrah 
Authorized Representative
SOCIETE DE GESTION DE L'ENERGIE DE MANANTALI
By /s/ Cheick Oumar Diarrah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the capacities of the Borrowers to 
meet the increasing demands for electricity supply in their respective territories.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Manantali Hydropower Station
Page  12
Construction of a power station, electromechanical facilities consisting of five 
(5) units of 40 Megawatts each, and the corresponding step-up substation at the 
Manantali dam including civil works, acquisition of equipment, and provision of 
training and technical advisory services.
Part B:
Transmission Systems
Construction of:
1.
a 225 kV single-circuit power transmission line from the Manantali dam to Bamako 
in Mali, including substations in Kita, Kodialani and Sirakoro;
2.
a 225 kV single-circuit power transmission line from Manantali to Sakal in 
Senegal, including substations in Kayes, Matam, Dagana, Sakal, and Tobene;
3.
a 225 kV single-circuit power transmission line from Dagana to Rosso in 
Mauritania, including a substation in Rosso;
4.
a 132 kV power transmission line from Rosso to Nouakchott in Mauritania, and a 
90 kV power transmission line from Matam to Kaedi in Mauritania, including substations 
in Kaedi and Nouakchott; and 
5.
a dispatching center in Manantali.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Provision of training and advisory services, and acquisition of equipment to 
strengthen the capacity of SOGEM to: (i) construct and manage the power production and 
transmission system to be constructed under Parts A and B of the Project, and (ii) 
operate the Manantali dam.
2.
Carrying of civil works, provision of training and advisory services, and 
acquisition of equipment to strengthen the capacity of OMVS in: (i) dam reservoir 
management; (ii) monitoring and mitigation of environmental negative impact of the 
Senegal river development program, including the Manantali and Diama dams, and the 
facilities to be constructed under Parts A and B of the Project; (iii) electrification 
of the Senegal river basin; (iv) collection and management of hydrological 
information; and (v) financial and administrative management.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of “Section 
I of the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 as revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B: 
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Prequalification
Page  13
Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territories of the Borrowers.
(d)
Dispute Review Board Each contract for works estimated to cost 
$50,000,000 equivalent or more shall include the provisions for a dispute review board 
set forth in the standard bidding documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of 
the Guidelines.
(e)
Notification and Advertising The invitation to prequalify or bid for each 
contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in 
accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of 
the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, and works estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $40,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $80,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for works and goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $40,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply:
Page  14
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a report on the comparison and evaluation 
of quotations 
received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for the strengthening of the administrative 
and financial management capacities of SOGEM and OMVS under Part C of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits under Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project estimated to cost 
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for studies for Manantali reservoir management and health mitigation 
plan under Part C.2 of the Project estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
Page  15
1.
Selection Planning Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall 
be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all 
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as 
shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000 the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
1.
Parts A, B, and C.1. of Project shall be implemented by SOGEM and Part C.2 shall 
be implemented by HC.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SOGEM shall carry out Parts A, 
B and C.1 of the Project, and HC shall carry out Part C.2 of the Project, all in 
accordance with the procedures set out in Project Implementation Plan and, except as 
the Association shall otherwise agree, SOGEM and HC shall not amend, abrogate or waive 
any provision thereof in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, will 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
3.
SOGEM and OMVS shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable them to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out Parts A, B, and C.1, and Part C.2, respectively, of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
furnish to the Association for its review and comments quarterly progress 
reports on the status of Parts A, B and C.1, and Part C.2, respectively, of the 
Project;
(c)
not later than June 30 and December 31 of each year, commencing in 1998, 
undertake, in conjunction with the Association and the Borrowers a joint semiannual 
review on all matters relating to the progress of the Project and, in particular, the 
progress achieved by SOGEM and OMVS during the current fiscal year, having regard to 
the monitoring indicators referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph;
(d)
not later than one month prior to each semiannual review, furnish to the 
Association: (i) for its approval, a proposed semiannual work program, including a 
proposed budget and financing plan, for the forthcoming fiscal year, and (ii) for its 
Page  16
review, a report in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
progress of Parts A, B and C.1, and Part C.2, respectively, of the Project during the 
current year; and
(e)
following each semiannual review, act promptly and diligently in order to 
take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming identified in 
the implementation of Parts A, B, and C.1 and Part C.2, respectively, of the Project, 
or to implement such measures as may have been agreed upon between the parties in 
furtherance of the objective of the Project.
4.
(a)
Not later than December 31, 1999, OMVS shall carry out, jointly with 
SOGEM, the Borrowers and the Association, a comprehensive review of the execution of 
the Project. Without limitation upon the generality of the foregoing, the review 
shall, inter alia, cover: (i) the status and results of training, reporting, 
accounting and audit performance, disbursement and procurement procedures and the 
overall sustainability of the Project, (ii) the execution of the contract referred to 
in Section 4.05 of this Agreement, (iii) the impact of the Project on the environment, 
and (iv) the status of power sector reforms in Mali, Mauritania, and Senegal.
(b)
Not later than thirty days prior to the review referred to in paragraph 
(a) above, OMVS and SOGEM shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, a report 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of 
the progress achieved in implementing the various components of the Project, and a 
draft action plan containing proposals for remedying any identified deficiencies.
(c)
Promptly after said review, OMVS and SOGEM shall: (i) prepare an action 
plan satisfactory to the Association based on the recommendations stemming from the 
aforementioned review, and (ii) adopt and implement said action plan for the remainder 
of the Project implementation period.
5.
Until completion of the Project, SOGEM shall carry out, or cause to be carried 
out, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, an annual technical 
inspection of the Manantali dam and power station, and thereafter take all measures 
necessary on its part, to remedy any defect identified by said inspection.
6.
SOGEM, and OMVS shall implement the Environmental Mitigation Plan in accordance 
with the action plan and timetable contained therein with due diligence and 
efficiency.
7.
Each of the Borrowers shall take all action necessary or appropriate on its part 
to enable SOGEM and OMVS, respectively, to implement the Enviromental Mitigation Plan 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with the implementation of said plan. 
8.
Not later than June 30, 2000, the Borrowers and SOGEM, in consultation with 
SNEs, shall take action necessary on their part to update the Tariff Agreement to take 
into account the actual cost of the power generation and transmission facitilies to be 
constructed under Parts A and B of the Project, under terms and conditions acceptable 
to the Association.
9.
Not later than June 30, 2000, the Borrowers shall cause SNEs in each of their 
respective territories to enter into power purchase agreements with SEM, under terms 
and conditions acceptable to the Association.
10.
Each of the Borrowers shall implement its respective Power Sector Restructuring 
Plan with due diligence and efficiency.
11.
Not later than January 31, 1999, the Borrowers shall enter into an agreement 
(Charte d’Utilisation des Eaux), under terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Association, for the management of the reservoir of the Manantali dam, including a 
manual setting out, inter alia, criteria, procedures, and guidelines for the 
management of said reservoir.
12.
Not later than December 31, 1998, the Borrowers and SOGEM shall enter into a 
Cahier des Charges, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, 
including financial and technical targets and indicators for the performance of SOGEM. 
Page  17
