                                   Documentof
                               The World Bank




                                                       Report No.: 38134




               OVERVIEW OF REGIONAL ENERGY PROJECTS


                                      and


              PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT


                                     for the


                      MALI, MAURITANIA and SENEGAL
           REGIONAL HYDROPOWERDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                         (CREDITS 2970,2971 and 2972)


                               December 17,2006




Sector, Global and ThematicEvaluationDivision
Independent Evaluation Group

CurrencyEquivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit =FCFA

                                                FCFA 525.30
                                                FCFA 595.12
                                                FCFA 559.33
                                                FCFA 649.88
                                                FCFA 704.57
                                                FCFA 744.39
                                                FCFA 632.67
                                                FCFA 525.10
                                                FCFA 572.69


AbbreviationsandAcronyms

AAA              Analytical and Advisory Assistance
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
ECOWAS           Economic Community of West Afiican States
EdM              ~lectricit~du Mali
EEM              Eskom ~nergieManantali
FCFA             Franc de la communautCfinancikreafricaine(also XOF)
GEF              GlobalEnvironmentFacility
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
IDA              International Development Association (of the World Bank Group)
IEG              IndependentEvaluationGroup
NGOs             Non-Governmental Organizations
O&M              Operation and Maintenance
OMVS             Organisationpour la mise en valeur du fleuve SCnCgal
PASIE            Programme dyattCnuationet de suivi des impacts des rkalisations
                   de I'OMVS sur l'environnement
PPAR             ProjectPerformance Assessment Report
QAE              Qualityat Entry
REPS             Regional Energy Projects
RHDP             Regional Hydropower Development Project
SENELEC          SociCtCnationale dy61ectricit6(SCnCgal)
SOGEM            SociCt6de gestion de ly6nergiede Manantali
SOMELEC          SociCtCmauritanienne d'Clectricit6
WAPP             West Africa Power Pool


FiscalYear

Government:               January 1-December 31


Director-General, Evaluation                         : Mr.VinodThomas
Director, IndependentEvaluation Group,World Bank     : Mr.AjayChhibber
Manager, Sector,Thematic and Global Evaluation       : Mr.AlainBarbu
Task Manager                                         : Mr.FernandoManibog

 IEGWB Mission:Enhancing developmenteffectivenessthroughexcellence and independence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The IndependentEvaluationGroupassessesthe programsand activitiesoftheWorld Bankfor two purposes:
first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank'sself-evaluationprocessandto verify thatthe Bank's work is producingthe
expectedresults, andsecond, to helpdevelopimproveddirections, policies, and proceduresthroughthe
dissemination of lessonsdrawnfrom experience. As partof thiswork, IEGWBannually assesses about 25 percentof
the Bank's lendingoperations. Inselectingoperations for assessment, preferenceis givento those that are
innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or countryevaluations; those for which
ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhave requestedassessments; and those that are likelyto generate
importantlessons.The projects, topics, andanalyticalapproaches selected for assessmentsupportlarger evaluation
studies.
       A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is basedon a reviewof the ImplementationCompletion
Report(a self-evaluationbythe responsible Bankdepartment)and fieldwork conducted by IEGWB.To prepare
PPARs, IEGWBstaff examine projectfiles and other documents, interview operationalstaff, and in most cases
visit the borrowingcountryfor onsitediscussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR therebyseeks to
validate and augmentthe informationprovided inthe ICR, as well as examine issuesof special interestto broader
IEGWBstudies.

       Each PPARis subjectto a peer review process and IEGWB managementapproval. Once cleared internally,
the PPAR is reviewed bythe responsible Bank departmentand amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is
then sent to the borrowerfor review; the borrowers' commentsare attachedto the document that issent to the
Bank's Boardof Executive Directors.After an assessmentreport has been sent to the Board, it is disclosedto the
public.


About the IEGWB Rating System

       The time-testedevaluationmethods used by IEGWBare suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methodsoffer both rigor and a necessarylevelof flexibilityto adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. IEGWBevaluators all apply the same basic methodto arriveat their project ratings. Following
is the definition and ratingscale usedfor each evaluationcriterion(more informationis available on the IEGWB
website: http://worldbank.orgloedleta-mainpage.html).
       Relevanceof Objectives: The extentto which the project'sobjectives are consistent with the country's
current development prioritiesand with current Bank country andsectoralassistancestrategies and corporate
goals (expressedin Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, CountryAssistance Strategies, Sector StrategyPapers,
Operational Policies). Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest,Negligible.
       Efficacy: The extentto which the project'sobjectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
accounttheir relativeimportance. Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.

       Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expectedto achieve, a return higherthan the
opportunity cost of capitaland benefitsat least cost comparedto alternatives. Possibleratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
       Sustainability: The resilienceto risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possibleratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.

       InstitutionalDevelopment lmpact: The extent to which a project improvesthe ability of a country or region
to make more efficient,equitableand sustainable use of its human, financial, and naturalresourcesthrough: (a)
better definition, stability,transparency, enforceability, and predictabilityof institutionalarrangementsandlor (b)
better alignmentof the missionand capacity of an organizationwith its mandate, which derives from these
institutionalarrangements. InstitutionalDevelopment Impactincludes both intendedand unintendedeffects of a
project. Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.

       Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevantobjectives were achieved, or are expectedto be
achieved, efficiently. Possibleratings: HighlySatisfactory,Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory,Moderately
Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Bank Performance: The extentto which services providedbythe Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementationthrough appropriatesupervision(includingensuringadequatetransition arrangements
for regular operationof the project). Possibleratings: HighlySatisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.

       BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrowerassumedownershipand responsibilityto ensure
quality of preparationand implementation,and compliedwith covenantsand agreements, towards the
achievementof development objectivesand sustainability.Possibleratings: Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory,HighlyUnsatisfactory.


                                                                     iii


Contents

CONTENTS          ...................................................................................................................             111


PRINCIPAL RATINGS                 ...................................................................................................             V


KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE                        .........................................................................................            V


PREFACE        ....................................................................................................................VII

SUMMARY          ...................................................................................................................IX

THE REGIONAL HYDROPOWERDEVELOPMENTPROJECT                                                                  ..................................IX

          Project Objectives          ........................................................................................................2
          Project Description           ..........................................................................................................2

          Quality at Entry        ................................................................................................................4
          Implementation lssues and Lessons                         .............................................................................5

RESULTSAT THE REGIONALLEVEL                                     .........................................................................          7


PROJECT-LEVELOUTCOMES                             .....................................................................................8

          Relevance       .....................................................................................................................9
          Efficacy     .......................................................................................................................0   I

          Efficiency     .........................................................................................................................14

INSTITUTIONALDEVELOPMENTIMPACT                                          ................................................................15

SUSTAINABILITY              ........................................................................................................              16


BANK PERFORMANCE                     ...............................................................................................17

BORROWERS' PERFORMANCE                                ............................................................................18

MAIN LESSONS FROMTHE RHDPAND REGIONAL PROJECTS                                                                   ............................19

IMMEDIATECHALLENGESAND LESSONSFOR FUTURE REGIONALPROJECTS
......................................................................................................................................           22


This report was prepared by Fernando Manibog (LeadEvaluation Officer), who assessed the project in
January2006, with contributions fromYves Albouy (Consultant). Ms. RornayneD. Pereira provided
administrativesupport.

REFERENCES     .............................................................................................................27

ANNEX A. BASIC DATA SHEET                   .................................................................................29

ANNEX 6. NOTEON THE DESK REVIEW OF WORLD BANK REGIONAL ENERGY
PROJECTS  ...................................................................................................................33


ANNEX C - DESCRIPTION              OF THE TRANSMISSIONSYSTEM                                 .................................37

ANNEX D PASlE COMPONENTS
        -                                      ..............................................................................39

ANNEX E - PROJECT          FINANCINGSHARES (ATAPPRAISAL)                                        ..............................41

ANNEX F BORROWER COMMENTS
        .                                            ......................................................................4  3


ANNEX G - LIST    OF PERSONS MET                   ..........................................................................47

Principal Ratings

                                ICR*                   ICR Review*                    PPAR

Outcome                       Satisfactory              Satisfactory               Satisfactory
Sustainability                  Likely                     Likely                      Likely

Institutional                 Substantial               Substantial                Substantial
Development Impact
Bank Performance              Satisfactory              Satisfactory               Satisfactory
Borrower                      Satisfactory              Satisfactory               Satisfactory
Performance


*The ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsibleoperationaldivision of
the Bank.The EvaluationSummary(ES) is an intermediateIEGWBproductthat seeks to independently
verify the findingsof the ICR.


Key Staff Responsible

Project                        Task Manager/Leader           ~ivisionChief/        Country Director
                                                            Sector Director

 Appraisal                         Philippe Durand          Max Pulgar-Vidal           Mahmood
                                                                                  AyubIHasan Tuluy

 Completion                          KwawuGaba             Yusupha Crookes           John Mclntire


Preface

        This is a Project PerformanceAssessmentReport (PPAR)prepared by the
IndependentEvaluation Group (IEG) on the SenegalMaliMauritania -Regional
HydropowerDevelopmentProject (RHDP, IDA CreditsNo. 2970,2971 and 2972).

        TheRHDP was approvedin June 1997for three IDA Credits totaling US$38.7
million equivalent. The IDA Credits represented only 9 percent of the total project cost
estimated at appraisal to be US445.5 million equivalent. The RHDP, which was co-
financedby numerousbilateral and multilateral agencies, closed in June 2004, with a
two-year delay from the original ClosingDate of June 2002.

        The RHDP was selected for an IEG assessmentbecause it is the first opportunity
to assessthe performance of a regional, multi-countryproject. It will also serveas an
input to IEG's Regional Programs Study. Consequently,much emphasis has been given
in the PPAR to lessons learned at the regional level, as well as the differencein the
metrics for designing and evaluatingregional versus single-countryprojects.

        To enhancethe practical usefulness of a regional-based PPAR, a desk review of
other regional energyprojects (REPS)was conductedwith a view to providing
comparativeinsights between the RHDP and otherregionalprojects in the electricity and
oil & gas sectors (Annex B). Based on ths largerregional context, areas for further
analysis and remaining challengesare indicated in the PPAR where relevant.
Accordingly, the lessons that are specificto the project-such   as those related to
procurement and project administration-are presented in the Project Implementation
section earlier in the report, to allow the main body and conclusions sectionsto focus on
lessons learned at the regional level.

        The RHDP evaluationis based on the Implementation Completion Report
(ReportsNos. 27481,27482 and 30931 dated January 7,2005), the Bank's project
documents,and interviews. An IEG mission visited Senegal,Mali and Mauritania during
end-Januaryand earlyFebruary 2006 to discussthe effectiveness of the World Bank's
assistancewith the three Governmentsand a large number of stakeholders.Given the
multipurposeuse of the dam and the trans-boundaryissues in the project, the IEG
mission met in the three countrieswith the Ministries of Finance, Energy, Environment,
Agriculture and Rural Development; the regional OMVS (Organisation pour la mise en
valuer du fleuve Sknkgal)and SOGEM(Soci6t6 de Gestionde 1'6nergie de Manantali);
the three nationalpower utilities; and operationalstaffresponsible for rural
electrification,health and public participationprograms. A list of persons met is attached
in Annex G. Their cooperation in granting interviewsand providingdata is gratefully
acknowledged. The supportprovided by OMVS, including the delegation of its Chief of
Economic Studies, Programming and Monitoringto accompanyand facilitatethe mission
during its entirety,is especiallyappreciated.

        Following standard IEG procedures, the draft PPARwas sent to the Borrowers for
their comments, which will be taken into account in the final version of the report.


Summary

        The Regional Hydropower Development Project (RHDP) is a sub-regional,multi-
donoroperationthat sought to provide reliable, low-costpower and increased electricity
accessto Mali,Mauritania and Senegal. The total actual cost of the project, which
involvedthe constructionof a hydroelectricplant downstream of the already-existing
Manantali dam in Mali, was US$342.1 million equivalent, of which the International
Development Association(IDA) financed 11percent. The US$36.41 million equivalent
that IDA financed covered46 percent of the plant's civil works and related services, and
26 percent of the Environmental ImpactsMonitoringand Mitigation Program (PASIE, or
Programme d'Attknuation et de Suivi des Impacts sur 17Environnement).The RHDP was
approved in J~me1997,and was closed in June 2004, after a two-year delay from the
original Closing Date of June 2002.

        The objectives of the RHDP were to: (a) reduce the long-termcost of electricity
supplyto the three countries; (b) contributeto meeting debt service associated with the
building of the Manantali dam; (c) contribute to increasingthe efficiencyand reliability
of the power systemsin the three countries; (d) establishan effectiveorganization to
construct and operate the project facilitiesand to mitigate environment and health
impacts of the Manantali darn; (e)promote competitiveprivate sector participation in
project operationand in financingof future generationprojects in the SenegalRiver
Basin; and (f) supportthe traditionalagricultural sectordownstreamthrough rational
management of the Manantalireservoir.

        Theproject's outcomeis rated satisfactory overall. As a result of achieving its
physical and its core development objectives, albeit with considerable delays, the RKDP
has enabled the provision of low-cost hydroelectricityto the three countries, and has
improved access as well as the reliability and quality of power supplies. The project also
succeeded in involving a private operator and initiated pilot programs to benefit rural
populations as well as mitigate the negative environmentaland health impacts of the dam.
However, the objective of contributingto meet the debt service associatedwith the
constructionof the Manantalidam was onlypartially achieved, with the power utilities in
Mali and Mauritaniaremaining in financial arrears to the Hydrology Fund established for
that purpose. Thus, while the project's efficiencyis substantialbased on economic rates
of return of 21 to 24percent at closing (or much higher at today's global oil prices), its
financial efficiencyis modest.

        While there are tripartite sovereignguaranteesthat the Manantali debt will be
covered, the inabilityto provisionthe HydrologyFund as agreed with donors reflects the
unwillingness of utilities in Mali and Mauritania to fulfill their financialobligations
(Senegalhas no arrears) and the inability of SOGEM (whichholds the Manantali assets)
to collect necessary revenues.The RHDP's relevance remains high given steep crude oil
prices, the unmet electricityneeds in the three countries, the regional integration
aspirationsof the West Afi~canstates, and the assistancethe Bank is currentlyproviding
for infrastructureintegration. TheRHDP also rates favorablycomparedto other regional
energyprojects that the Bank has implemented.

        Theproject's institutional development impact is rated substantial, as the Project is
expected to make significantcontributionsto the Region's abilityto use its natural and
human resourcesmore efficiently. The degree of cooperation achieved amongthe three
countries, particularly for water resources management, are exemplary. Sustainability is
rated likely although it is marginally so given the financialrisksposed by the outstanding
arrears of the electricutilities in Mali and Mauritania to SOGEM for the HydrologyFund,
and artificiallylow end-user tariffs. Bankperformance is rated satisfactory owingto the
Bank's ability to successfullycoordinate the dialogue and collaborationamongthe three
countries and donors, and its support for compliancewith safeguardsby ensuringthe
satisfactoryimplementationof an environmentalimpact assessment and resettlement for the
project. However, qualityat entrywas only moderately satisfactorygiven the late
effectivenessof the'credit and the implementationdelays causedby inadequatepreparations
of someof the key components of the project.

        Experiencewith other regional energyprojects showsthat the Bank has the
comparativeadvantageof being able to convene stakeholdersand catalyze resourcesfor
promoting compliancewith safeguards. The rating forborrower performanceis satisfactory
althoughmoderatelyso, considering that the governments did not adhereto some of their
undertakingsduringthe implementation of the Project. The implementing agencieswere
alsolate in resolving implementation delays. Toward the end, the implementingagencies
did achievethe project's multiple objectives and demandingtrans-boundaryoperations, and
the threemember countries demonstrated significantcommitment towardsregional
cooperationon energy and water management.Mali and Mauritania, however,remain in
arrears with their financial commitmentsto the Hydrology Fund to serviceManantali debt
owed to a consortium of bilateral and regional co-financiersfor the constructionof the dam
itself.

        The RHDP shares many of the characteristicsof other regional energyprojects
(REPs) the Bank has implemented in the past. The RHDP together with the Bank's other
REPs offer several important lessons, categorizedunder two overarching, main lessons
for futureregional projects. These lessons are:

(a)Regionalprojects are high-risk operations that are complex and resource-intensive
but when well-designedand efficiently implemented,they canyield high economic
rewards. REPSare demanding in thefollowing ways, but these demands can be
potential assets in lateryears:

        REPs raise many concernsfor governmentsand utilities, as the political
        desirabilityand feasibilityof such projects arenot always evident. REPs demand
        a full stakeholderanalysisto identifythe main winners and losers. REPSalso
        require an analysisof the power exercised by the leaders and champions of
        reforms, and their level of commitment. Countrycommitment may prove fickle,
        hence a completeaccountingof the political pressures on the REP governance
        fiameworkis a key first step to determinethe potential forproject success and
        risks to sustainability. This is crucial if substantial reforms are contemplated.
        Regional approachesrequire that countriesbe willing to sharebenefits and to
        implement mechanismsthat could infringe on their sovereignty.This includesthe

       abilityto forge a broad-based legitimacyof the authorizing environment, intricate
       verticaland horizontalpartnerships,strongpublic participation, and robust
       systemsto ensurefairness for sharingbenefits. Differencesin institutionalcapital
       matter all the more if the project aims at deep and sophisticatedreforms such as
       market liberalization.
       Projectmanagement of REPs has stringentrequirementsfor clarity and efficiency.
       Compared to nationalprojects, REPs tend to have soundergovernance
       frameworks and saleslpricingagreementsbecause REPs adopt systemsthat are
       closer to global standards and tend to involve the most experienced contractors.
       Differences and lags in institutionaldevelopment amongmember countries canbe
       overcomeby importingand transferringthe skillsneeded forproject management
       and operation, and using a multinational entitythat can facilitateregional
       exchanges,as was done by OMVS under the RHDP. Bridging institutional
       differencesis an important side-effect of aregional approach.
       Cross-bordercooperationis essential for managingrisks in REPs. Because
       regionalprojects tend to be big, debt-financing is correspondinglylarge. The
       financingrequirementsof REPs could impact heavily on single-countryfiscal
       resources and project financialsustainability,but the regional approachhelps
       mitigate and distributerisks. Trans-boundarycooperation is crucial forresolving
       issueswithin REPs. For example, interveningin severalcountriesis a difficult
       task especiallyfor health and environmentalissues. Strong cooperation across
       borders through regional institutions, however, enables more effective
       implementation of environmental,resettlement and health safeguards.


(b) Theapproachesfor appraising,supervising, monitoring and evaluating regional
projects differ significantljrfrom nationalprojects. Regional approachesneed to take
into account trans-boundarybenefits, as well as tap opportunitiesto apply new Bank
products and instruments, enhance the Bank's "honestbroker" role, and strengthen
performance monitoring and evaluation.

       Compared to single-countryprojects, the Bank and its borrowers in REPs need to
adopt different metrics in the design, implementationand evaluation of projects owing to
the important differencesbetween single-countryand regionalproject design and
implementationapproaches, as follows:

       Multi-countryprojects open up opportunitiesand unexpectedbenefits that may
       not be present in a single-countryproject. For example, a regional approachcan
       serveas a system of checks and balances amongthe partner countries. Moreover,
       greater efficienciescanbe achievedthrough the interconnection of infi-astructure
       facilitiesand multi-country approachesto environmentalissues. Thus, the
       analysis of outcomesthrough a regional lens becomes much more complex.
       In regional projects, because there are multiple Borrowers and a likely large
       number of donors, the Bank's role comes into much sharper focus. This makes
       quality-at-entrya greater challenge,particularlywith respect to performance
       criteria such as the Bank's knowledge of the local political economy,the quality
       and relevance of its advice, its abilityto build consensus, and its effectivenessin
       leadingpolicy dialogueacrossmultiple countries. This in turn puts greater

pressureonpartner countries and the Bank to overcome internal silos (for
example, in caseswhere partner countries straddletwo or more Country
Departments in the Bank,towhat extent do these CDs addressjointly the weakest
country or stakeholderls?)
Regional projects can elevate social and environmentalaspects (oftenfocused in
single-country projects on safeguardscompliance)to the plane of trans-boundary
public goods and programmatic approachesto addressissues sub-regionally.
Consequently, new instruments such as sub-regional SectorEnvironmental
Assessments (ratherthan a project-focused EIA) become more relevant across
severalBorrowers.
Monitoringand evaluation(M&E) systems are cruciallyimportant in regional
projects, to createstrong feedbackloops between cross-country performance data
and sub-regional governanceand operationalpolicies. There are heavier demands
for effectiveM&E systems in regionalprojects to generatereal-time data, given
the larger potential for delays fi-omhavingmultiple countriesinvolved.




                                                           Vinod Thomas
                                                           Director-General
                                                           Evaluation

The Regional Hydropower Development
Project

Background

1.      TheRHDP is a sub-regional lending operationthat involved Mali, Mauritania and
Senegal. Theproject's conceptualizationbegan in June 1996,and its formal appraisalwas in
December 1996.It was approvedin June 1997, and with a delay of four months, Credit
effectivenesstook place in April 1998.Theproject closed on June 2004, after a two-year
delay fiom the original Closing Date of June 2002.

2.      At the time RHDP was conceptualized, the power sectors of these three countries
were facedwith the seriousneed for reliable, low-costpower supplyand increased electricity
accessby the SenegalRiver Basin populations. Theproject was especially important to Mali,
as the electricity generated was projectedto represent around 50percent of its total power
demand beyond 2001. Theproposed project provides a substantiallylower-cost alternativeto
thermal-based power generation, given the high cost of petroleum fuels particularly in the
land-locked country of Mali.

3.      TheRHDP financed the following:(i) the hydroelectric plant downstreamof the
Manantali dam located in Mali, whch was completed in 1988without World Bank
financing;(ii) transmissionlines; and (iii) the Programmed'Att6nuation et de Suivi des
Impacts sur 1'Environnement (PASIE), or the pilot EnvironmentalImpact Monitoring and
MitigationProgram, whch was intended to addressthe environmentaland health issues that
resulted fiom the Manantali dam's construction.In 1981,with financingof about US$620
million fiom 12donors,l constructionbegan on two dams: (i) Diama, on the SenegalRiver
delta, to prevent intrusion of salt water into the lower valley; and (ii) Manantali in western
Mali, for water storage,river flow regulationand power generation. Both dams havebeen in
operation since 1988. Thebarrier dam at Diama has made irrigated agriculturepossible
throughoutthe year and allowedthe supplyof water for populations and cattle upstream fiom
Diama and for the city of Dakar. Storage of the annual flood by the Manantali dam has
allowedthe Diama reservoir to be maintained at full and stablelevel, and the levels of two
lakes2 to be raised, thus considerably reducing the costs forpumped irrigation systems
around these water bodies. Because of these improvements,inigated agriculturehas become
a major economic force in the valley.




1.Manantalidam co-financiersinclude: AFD (France);KfW (Germany);Italy; SaudiArabia; Kuwait; Abu
Dhabi; OPEC Fund; CIDA (Canada);BID; Fonds africainde dkveloppement;Banque afiicaine de
dtveloppement; and USAID.

2. Guiers and Rkiz.

4.      As designed, the RHDP would develop an extensive power systemto serve the urban
areasof Mali, Mauritania and Senegal, fed with hydroelectricity to be generated at a power
stationat the foot of the Manantali Dam. The proposed power station would have 200 MW of
installed capacityand an average energy output of about 807 GWh.


Project Objectives

5.      The RHDPYsobjectiveswere to: (a) reducethe long-term cost of electricitysupplyto
the three countries;(b) contributeto meeting debt service associatedwith the building of the
Manantali dam; (c) contributeto increasingthe efficiencyand reliability of the power
systemsin the three countries; (d) establish an effective organizationto construct and operate
the project facilities and to mitigate environmentand health impacts of the Manantali dam;
(e) promote competitiveprivate sectorparticipation in project operation and in financingof
futuregenerationprojects in the Senegal River Basin; and (f) support the traditional
agricultural sectordownstream through rational management of the Manantali reservoir.


Project Description


6.      The project's implementing agencieswere the Organisationpour la Mise en valeur du
fleuve SCnCgal(OMVS) and the SociCtC de Gestion de 1 ' ~ n e r ~deeManantali (SOGEM).
                                                                   i
OMVS is the SenegalRiverBasin authority and SOGEM holds the assets of Manantali dam,
hydroelectricplant, and transmissionlines.

7.      OMVS was created in 1972by the Governmentsof Mali, Mauritaniaand Senegal.Its
mandate is to manage-on behalf of the three member states-- specificconstructionworks as
theyrelate to irrigation, energy and navigation specifically,and more broadly to manage
river resources in order to prevent major floods and droughts. The supremeauthority of
OMVS is the Conferenceof Heads of Stateand of Government,while its supervisorybody is
the Councilof Ministers. The executive organ of the OMVS is the High Commission,which
is headed by a High Commissioner and assisted by a Secretary-General,both of whom are
appointedto four-year terms.

8.      SOGEMwas created in January 1997to operate, maintain and refurbish thejointly
owned structuresat Manantali. SOGEM is responsiblefor all industrial,commercialor
financialoperations.The OMVS Council of Ministers -in its capacity as the General
Assemblyof Shareholders-is the supremeorgan of SOGEM, which is administeredby nine
members of a Governing Council and headed by a Director-General appointed to a four-year
term.



9.      The RHDP included investment, institutionalstrengthening, technical assistance, and
environmentalimpactmitigation components,which were not revised during
implementation.

10.     The InvestmentComponent consisted of the constructionof a power station and a
High Voltage transmission system (see Annex C), both operatedby a centralreal-time load
dispatching system.Thepower station included (a) civil works for the power station itself
and a dispatching center at Manantali; (b) electromechanicalequipment (5 turbo-generator
units of 40 MW each); (c) a step-up substation; and (d) reinforcement works on the
Manantali dam. The transmission systems (not financedby IDA) comprisetwo main
systems. The Eastern systemis a 306 kilometer-long, single-circuit 225-kV line fiom
Manantali to supplyBamako. The Western system is a 945 kilometer-long, single-circuit
225-kV line fiom Manantalito Tobene, Senegal,with an off-take fiom Dagana to connect to
Nouakchott, Mauritaniathrough SOMELEC's system.

11.     The Institutional Strengthening and Technical Assistance (TA) Component. The
institutional strengthening was to support the OMVSHigh Conmission (HC) in
implementingthe environmental mitigation and monitoringplan (paragraph 1.1O), studies
relating to the reservoirmanagement optimization program, and to develop rural
electrificationin the Senegal River Basin and second generation hydroelectric sites. The
componentwas also to support SOGEM in recruiting a private operator for the management
and operation of project facilities,as well as in reviewing and establishingtariff principles
and mechanisms and energypurchase agreements. Severalknowledge and technology
transfers, including informationtechnology, were also provided. The TA sub-component
was to provide SOGEMwith expertise in project implementation, especially in procurement,
project management, implementationsupervision, and the monitoring of contractsexecution.

12.     The EnvironmentalImpacts Monitoring and MitigationProgram (PASIE) was
an important component of RHDP, comprisingvarious capacity-building activities that were
agreed at appraisal under the project's Component D on "Institutional Strengthening".
During Board approval, however, seriousconcerns were expressedthat the project did not
address fully the adverse social, health and environmental impacts of the Manantali and
Diama dams, which were not financedby IDA. Consequently, Component D was given a
stronger focus on these issues. Moreover, there were also concerns on the need to ensure
that, after the hydropower plant becomes fully operational,the three governmentswould
continue the artificial floodingrequired by traditional agricultural activities downstream.

13.     The cost of PASIEwas US$19 million, of which IDA financedUS$5 million. It was
initially designed to assist the countries of Mali, Senegal, and Mauritania in their efforts to
design policies and legalprinciples leading to a shared and balanced management of the
Senegal River Water Resources, with a focus on the operation of the Manantali dam and
reservoir. The program consistedof six components (seeAnnex D):

        Consultation, coordination and communication
        Monitoring program to mitigate the impacts of construction
        Reforestation and compensationfor land and right-of-way appropriations
        Optimal reservoir management
        Environmental sanitation
        Other measures (limnologyunit, rural electrification, income-generatingactivities)

(c)PROJECTCOSTS

14.      At appraisal,the RHDP's total project cost was estimated at US$445.5 million,
includingphysical and price contingencies,and net of taxes and duties. On June 26, 1997,
the InternationalDevelopment Association (IDA) of the World Bank Group approved three
credits for thebeneficiary countries for the total amount of US$38.7 million, in the following
amountfor each:


          Country                  SpecialDrawing Rights           US$ equivalent
                                   (SDR millions)                  (millions)
          Mali                      12.6                           17.1
          Mauritania               8.1                             11.1
          Senegal                  7.7                             10.5
          TOTAL                    28.4                            38.7


15.      The relative foreign exchange gain (Euro to SDR) during project implementation
resulted in an actualproject cost of US$342.1 million. IDA disbursements reached US$36.41
million, distributed as follows: Mali,US$15.5 million; Mauritania, US$10.6 million; and
Senegal,US$10.4 million.



16.      The three IDA credits financed 46 percent of civil works and related services3and 26
percent of the PASIE; which togetherrepresented only a smallpart (11percent) of the
project's total actual cost.

17.      RHDP was a major multi-donor initiativethat included Agence Franqaise de
DkvCloppement(AFD,France, formerly the Caisse fianqaise de dhvhloppement),
Kredistanstadtfiir Wiederaufbau (KfW, Germany), CanadianInternational Development
Agency (CDA -Canada),the European Union, European InvestmentBank (EIB), Islamic
Development Bank (IDB), Afiican DevelopmentBank (AfDB), Arab Fund forEconomic
and SocialDevelopment (FADES), and West Afiican DevelopmentBank (BOAD), among
other smaller financiers. The financing shares of these numerous donors and lenders are
presented in Annex E.


Quality at Entry

18.      Quality at entry (QAE) was moderately satisfactory.While some of the elements of
the project's design contributed substantiallyto enhancethe qualityof the project at the
entry, there were alsomajor shortcomings. On the positive side, at the time of project
conceptualizationand appraisal, there was a close strategicfit between the RHDP's
objectivesand those of the three governments,particularly the integration and pooling of
energygeneration capacity,and regional cooperationin water resources management. A


3. IDA cofinanced civil works for the power plant with the Islamic Development Bank and the Banque Ouest
Afi-icaine de Dtvtloppement (BOAD).

4. IDA cofinanced PASIE with KfW, CIDA and AFD.

review of theproject documents indicates that there was also a substantialdialogue with the
three governments and the implementing agencies. Further, some of the engineering-
technical aspectsbenefited fkomrigorous analysis, such as the hydrological aspects and
reservoir storage capacitywhich werewell analyzed, thus providing sufficient guarantees
regarding the operational capacity of the power plant in relation to variations of river inflow
to the reservoir.'

19.     However,therewere also major shortcomingswith respect to QAE. Despite the
strongdialoguewith the three governmentsand OMVS in whch the Bank and other donors
were active participants, the Bank failed to obtain a stronger commitment fiom the
governmentswith respect to theirkey undertakings related to project implementation. The
effectivenessof the Credit was delayed by about 4 months due to government's failure to
complywith IDA covenants (para.l.21). Some of the key actionsthat were intended at
project entrywere significantlydelayed, reportedly due to the political difficultiesthat were
involvedin obtainingtripartite agreement. For example, the critical step of adoptingthe
Water Charter and the Manantali ReservoirManagementPlan was only implementedtoward
the end of the project in 2002.

20.      Anothermajor shortcomingwas that the design of a key component of the project
(thecivil work for the power plant) was not sufficiently advanced for implenientation The
bidding process for the civilwork and related services was launched without detailed design
studies,thus leaving the contractor--whchin itselfhad seriousweaknesses (see
"Implementation Issues" below)--with the responsibility of preparing the detailed studies
during contract negotiations. This weakened the leverage of the Bank and other financiers,
and may have resulted in cost overruns of the project's civil works (by some 58%).
Subsequently,as may be expected,there was a significant number of important contract
amendments. In addition,the civil works contractorand the electromechanical contractor
were blaming each other for the delays in deliveringthe power station. Under these
circumstances,it would have been advisable (and consistentwith the Bank's practices) to
have opted for sometype of a Fixed Price-Turnkey Contract with a pre-qualificationprocess
and a strongEngineering,Procurement, and Construction (EPC) Contractor. Therewere also
inadequate studies for the constructionof transmission lines, which increased costs further
and delayed the installationand commissioningthe equipment. Moreover, the signingof
criticalagreement, namelythe Water Charter,was delayed for almost three years due to lack
of strongsupportby the governments(para. 1.19). When these factors are all taken into
account,the quality of the project at entry is rated as moderately satisfactory.


Implementation Issues andLessons

21.      Issues That Caused Delays. The RHDP was hampered by many delays. At the outset,
civil works could not be started due to delays in project effectivenessresultingfkomthe
governments' failure to complywith IDA'S covenantsrelated to: (i) adequate counterpart



5. The damreservoir has an effective storage capacity of 7.9 billion m3,or the differencebetween its full
capacity of 11.3 billion m3 and its minimal operational level of 3.4 billion m3.

funding for SOGEM; (ii) accounting procedures for SOGEM and OMVS acceptableto
and (iii) budget allocations sufficientto cover the 1998operatingcosts of OMVS.Moreover,
due to the weak politicalwill at the outset, two other key IDA covenantswere also delayed.
The Water Charter should have been ready in January 1999but was not signeduntil May
2002. There was also a long delay in signingthe agreementbetween SOGEM and the three
Statesto establishSOGEM'sperformance indicators and delineatethe States' obligations
toward SOGEM, includingtheir contributionto SOGEM's budget untilproject completion.

22.     Another serious delayresulted fiom the flooding during the 1999rainy season, which
disruptedthe delivery (viaroad and railway) of materials and equipment to the Manantali
site,resultingin additionalproject costs.

23.     Two serious,interrelated problems caused major implementation delays. First, the
Contractor for civil works lacked of adequateproject implementation capacity. The
Contractor performed well below expectations, which had caused numerous delays as well as
reworks. The Contractorlacked engineering capabilityin electricitydistributionand water
drainage.It did not meet its committed schedulefor site organization,assign qualified and
adequatepersonnel on the site, or provide adequate qualityand quantityof equipment (e.g.,
concretepumps and the crushingmill were defective). There were many unannounced
personnel departures, delaysin equipment mobilization, and material shortages, such as
cement. Task schedulingwas ill prepared and delivered equipmentwere not always of
required specifications.These had the combined effect of delaying the commissioningof
generationunits 1and 3 by around 4 months. The civil works Contractorwas not willing
provide additionaltime and resourcesto compensate for prior delays.

24.     The procurement process itself, includingthe lack of compatibilityamongthe
procurementprocedures of the various donors,may have contributedto the foregoing
problem and undermined project implementation. The civil works contract were bid twice,
and while the contract was awarded to the lowest evaluatedbidder, the technical evaluation
found that (i) the selected contractor had executedonly a limited number of prior contracts
and (ii) a significant risk was posed by its lack of the robust technical experienceneeded to
deliver on a contract of this size. Instead of a singlepackage, what occurred instead was
piecemeal constructionby several contractorswith incoherentcontract conditions.Ideally,
there shouldhave been only one round of properly formattedbidding, as experience has
shown that having gone for two rounds may have distortedthe final outcome.

25.     Throughout implementation,the project documents showmany additional delaysin
the following areas: (i) payments, includingadvances on civilworks contracts;(ii)
processing of disbursement requests; and (iii)completion of the Appropriationsand hght-of-
Way Program and compensationto the beneficiaries. PASIE also suffered from delays in the
required reforestationactivities and the provision of technical supervisionfor the pilot health
facilities in six target villages.



6. The audit of SOGEM's 1998financial statements and project accountsfor 1998was delayed three months,
after which only a qualified certification was issued since the financialmanagement systemwas not yet
operational.

26.     The foregoingdelays were exacerbated by the difficultyin coordinatingthe large
number of lendersand their differingprocedures for procurement, payments, disbursements,
and the handling of numerous amendmentsthat requiredtheir no-objections. The RHDP's
complex financingarrangements undermined project execution.In this regard, Special
Accounts should have been established for the Mauritania and SenegalCreditsto reduce the
work slowdowns due to delays in payment. Nevertheless, the project documents show that
overall OMVS and SOGEM adapted and took the correctivemeasures to completethe
project, albeitwith a two-year delay.

27.     Lessons. At the project level, the experience of implementingRHDP yields the
followinglessons (lessons at the regional level are discussed later in the report):

        At the design and preparation stage, good technical preparation is essential if delays
        and cost increases are to be avoided. For the RHDP, the lack of detailed design
        studies for the power plant, the transmissionlines, and the dispatchingcenter led to
        numerous delays and successive cost increases.
        Procurement activities related to the key components should be as advanced as
        feasibleprior to negotiations, in order to allow sufficient time forproject management
        to take anynecessary correctivemeasures and avoid delays.
        Harmonization of donor procedures,particularly on procurement, should be
        establishedprior to implementation.Financingand disbursementprocures should also
        be harmonized to achievebetter coordinationamong co-lenders in the processing of
        payments.
        Mitigation of environmental impacts shouldbe appropriately covenantedin the legal
        documents, and time-bound with provisionsfor remedial actionsby IDA.. In the case
        RHDP, the long delay in signingthe Water Charter and implementingthe Manantali
        Reservoir ManagementProgram posed seriousrisks in terms of escalating the
        negative environmentalimpacts of the Manantali dam, undermining the resettlement
        of expropriated populations, and delayingtheir compensation.




Results at the Regional Level

28.     The RHDP has had a strongpositive role in helping integrate the sub-region, which is
seekingto promote trade, labor flows and sub-regional development. Through the
strengthening of OMVS and the establishment of an institutional framework (notably
SOGEMto hold the Manantali assets and ESKOM, a private operator for the power
facilities),RHDP has laid the basis forjoint actionsbetween Mali, Mauritania and Senegal.
The most importantevidence is the signing of a common Water Charterin 2002, which
triggeredthe implementationof ajoint reservoirmanagement plan. This established
principles to equitablyshare environmentalservices and protect the rights of affected
populations, ensurethe maintenance of their livelihoods,and sustain the environment on
which they depended.

29.     Under the project's PASIE component,joint actionshave been implemented to
mitigatethe environmentalimpacts of the Manantalidam (which togetherwith the Diama
dam pre-existedthe RHDP), the power plant, and the power transmissionlines. The RHDP
alsomainstreamedbroad stakeholderparticipation by establishingregular consultation
processes at the national and local levels, including village committees and local NGOs, thus
allowingthose living in the SenegalRiver Basin to be informed about the water resources
management policy of OMVS, particularlywith respect to the Manantali dam upstream.
Thiswill help build consensus on water resources management policy, legal and regulatory
instruments, implementinginstitutions,resource requirements, and priority actions. The next
key step is to scale-upthesepilot activities and ensuretheir sustainableh d i n g (in this
regard, an issuehas arisenregarding the diversion of financialresources intended for the
HydrologyRiskFund to financerural electrification instead,as discussed under project-level
outcomesbelow).

30.     Another impact of the RHDP is to help focusthe tripartite dialogue on poverty
reduction in the SenegalRiver Basin. The OMVS member statesnow give high priority to
infrastructure development, including access to clean water, sanitation, rural electrification
and health services.Income-generation investmentshave been piloted on recommendationof
PASIE, including small and microbusiness schemes,improvedirrigationtechniques to grow
off-season cropsnear key markets in Dakar,and other forms of entrepreneurship.

31.     The RHDP also had an unintended positiveimpact on the telecommunicationssectors
of the three countries. Theynow have the opportunity-through      the telecommunications
equipment that were installed for transmissionoperations-to     design a sub-regional
telecommunicationsproject servingthe OMVS member states. This would build upon the
dual-purposeoptical fiber technologyto link Manantali to all the high-voltage substations
and the national grids of the three countries,for which SOGEMhas already signed an
operational agreement with the telecommunicationscompanies. Thisproject would establish
a digital, interconnected telecommunicationsystem for Mali, Senegal, and Mauritania, which
would laterbe expanded to otherneighboringcountries.

32.     The degree of cooperationbetween Mali, Mauritania and Senegalhas ushered in an
important changein internationalriverbasin development in the African region. The
successfu1experience of OMVS has been instrumental in the appointment of the High
Commissionas the secretariatof the Ahcan Network for Basin Organizations(ANBO).
Moreover,the role of OMVS in the regionhas been viewed as a model for the GambiaRiver
Basin Organization, or the Organisationpour la mise en valeur du fleuve Gambie (OMVG).
OMVS is also now an activeparticipant in ECOWAS deliberationsto promote greaterpower
market integration and related investmentsin the WesternAfrica region.




Project-Level Outcomes

33.     The overall outcome of the RHDP is rated satisfactory, based on its high relevance,
substantialefficacy in key areas and substantialefficiency,as discussed below. During the

IEG field visit,therewas a strong and solid consensuson the project's positive results among
all the informantsthat were interviewed in the three countries, including official agencies,
donors,NGOs and individualbeneficiaries.


Relevance

34.     The RI-IDP's relevance is rated high.At the time of project identification and
preparation,the RHDP was intendedto meet the priority energyissues affectingMali,
Mauritaniaand Senegal,namely, the need to increase energy access by the population of the
Senegal River Basin through the provision of a reliable supply of electricityat a lower cost
than thermal alternatives. Therewas also a clearneed to improvethe efficiencyof the power
sectorsin the three countries, as well as to tackle the environmental and health impacts of the
existingManantali dam.The RHDP was consistent with the CAS objectivesin the three
countries duringthe mid-1990s of achievingsustainedbroad-based growthby promoting the
private sector and developinginfrastructure,while addressingenvironmentali s s ~ e s . ~

35.      Today, the RHDP has become evenmore relevant given the very high international
crude oil prices and the remainingunmet electricityneeds of the three countries.' Pillar 3 of
the Mali PRSP seeks to developimproved energy infrastructureand productive sectors. One
goal of the MauritaniaPRSP is to develop the rural and infrastructure sectorsby reducing
costs and promoting the sustainableprovision of basic infrastructurein electricity, among
other servicedeliveries. The Senegal CAS has as a major objectivethe expansionof the
supplyof inf?astructure services,most prominently among the poor, to lower servicecosts
and to promote private sectordevelopment. In all the three countries,the Bank proposes
lending for electricitysector development.

36.      The RHDP is most relevant to the long-standing regional integration aspirations of
the West Afiican states and the Bank's own 2001 Regional IntegrationAssistance Strategy
for West Afi-ica. The Economic Communityfor West Afiican States (ECOWAS) and West
Afi-icanMonetary Union (Union MonCtaire Ouest-Afiicaine)have been preparing regional
infrastructureintegrationprograms for road and air transport, telecommunications,as well as
energytrade in electricity and natural gas, establishingthe regional institutions to this end.
ECOWAS has taken the lead with USAID support to prepare the institutionalframeworkfor
a regionallyinterconnectedelectricitymarket. The Bank's 2001 strategy featuresincreased
AAA and financialsupportto deepen regional integration. Theproposed WesternAfiica
Power Project (underpreparation) aims to build and reinforceregional electricity
transmission lines. The OMVS Felou Hydroelectric Project was approved for appraisal in
April 2006.

37.      Other REP Experience. More generally, regional energyprojects (REPS)have
performed well on various dimensionsof relevance. They were well-aligned with regional,


7. Mali CAS, January 1995(13746-ML); Mauritania CAS, March 1994(6156-MR); Senegal CAS, February
1995(13909-SN).

8. Mali CAS, July 2003 (25663-ML); Mauritania CAS, May 2002 (24122-MR); SenegalCAS, March 2002
(25498-SN).

country and Bank objectivesrelated to economicgrowth and sustainableenergy
development.REPSwere niindful of the diverse socio-political interest and levels of
developmentof the member countries,while applyinguniformly the Bank's safeguard
policies for safety, the environment and resettlement. In most cases, regional approaches
were tailoredtoneeds amongthe member countriesthat needed to be addressed at the
regional level; otherwise, other interventionswithin the regional project were left at the
subsidiarycountrylevel.


Efficacy

38.     The efficacyof RHDP is rated substantial.However, althoughit achieved its physical
objectives, one of its key development objectiveswas onlypartially achieved.




39.     Physical outputshave been achieved, albeit with importantdelays. The completed
works and facilities include: (i) a water intake system comprisingfivepenstocks; (ii) a
powerhouse for fiveturbo-generator units and related services;(iii) areinforced concrete
tollgate channel; (iv) a step-uptransformer station; (v) a high-voltage substation; ((vi) a
dispatchingcenter and high voltage control building; (vii) a potablelindustrialwater supply
system;and (viii) fortificationto the dam. Beside the power station,the 225-kV transmission
lines connecting selectedlocalitiesand the capital cities in the three countries were
successfullycommissionedin January2002 for the Eastern System and for the Western
System on July 2002. The three national power -utilities    achieved coordinated system
operationin November 2002.

40.     The delays should still be noted, however. Although eventually completed, all works
related to the power stationwere delayed by one year. Numerous delays hampered the civil
works program. There were technicalproblems with the electroechanicalequipment,which
took severalmonths to resolve. As a result, whereas the fiveturbineswere supposed to be
deliveredduringthe 2000-2001period, their installation and satisfactorycommissioning
were completed onlybetween December 2002 and June 2003. A review of reports from
Bank supervisionmissions and implementationmonitoring (bythe engineeringfirm charged
with on-site supervision) showsmuch disagreementregardingthe project's implementation
progress duringthat period.

(B) DEVELOPMENT       OBJECTIVES PARTLALLY ACHIEVED
                                    -

41.     With regard to project's development objectives(para. 1.9,the first four are closely
related and can be considered as one objective,namely, to supplyreliable electricityto the
three countries, at an economically low cost and financiallyefficient and environmentally
sound manner. In this context, the long term cost of supplyhas been reduced (sincethe
hydro-based electricitycosts lessthan thermal-based), losses in transmission have been
reduced, and reliability is likelyto improve due to installationof over 1200km of new
transmission lines. However, the objective of contributingto the debt service of the
Manantali dam has only been partially achieved. Moreover, althoughnot an objectiveof the
project, the commercial-basedoperation of the electricitysectors of the three countries

remains worrisome fiom a financial standpointbecause of inadequate end-user tariffs. The
extent to which each developmentobjectiveshave been met are discussedbelow.

42.     The long-term cost of electricitysupplyto the three countrieshas been reduced. At a
projected average output of 807 GWh per year fromManantali, SOGEM7sestimates show
the averagecost of hydroelectricityfor the three utilitiesrange from FCFA30.9/kWh to
FCFA 32.05kWh for 2003 and 2030 respectively. This is substantially lower than the cost
of thermal-based generation. For Senegal, for example,the average cost of thermal-based
generationfor the period 2005-2015is FCFA 47/kWh comparedwith FCFA 33.5kWh for
the hydro-basedgenerationfor sameperiod, i.e., hydro-based cost 27% less than thermal-
based power.9

43.     The efficiencyand reliability of the power systemsin the three countries have also
improved. The project has strengthened the efficiency and reliability of SOGEM's
operations,and has eliminated incidencesof load-shedding. In the Implenientation
CompletionReport, for the period 2003-2030, SOGEMprojected improvementsin network
transmissionlossesto the levelsof 2.4 percent for electricitysuppliedto EdM, 11.3percent
for SOMELEC, and 9.82 percent for SENELEC.Updates made duringthe IEG mission
yielded consistent figures (seetablebelow),thus showingthat the operational experienceto
date lends credibilityto the projected efficiencyimprovements.

Table 1: Losses according to the Fichtner Study
                     I                     I                   I                   I                   1
                        Delivery Point        Average Losses       % of power          Levelized Losses
   National Power
                                                                    delivered
      Company

                           Kodialani              2,24%               89,3%
        EDM                    Kita               2,24%               2,2%                  2,15%
                             Kayes                1,13%               8,5%
                             Matam                3,13%               5,7%
      SENELEC                Dagana               4,79%               9,6%                  6,03%
                              Sakal               5,56%               31,7%
                             Tobene               6,85%               53,0%
                              Kaedi                NIO
     SOMELEC                 Boghe                 NIO                                      6,94%
                             Rosso                5,37%               10,8%
                          Nouakchott              7.13%               89.2%


44.     With better operational co-ordinationamongthe three systems,greaterreliability
across the interconnectedsystemmaybe expected. Under RHDP, the three countries also
undertook some reforms of theirpower sectors,but these have had varying and limited
results.

45.     Institutionaland environmentalinitiatives were implemented. Based on interviews
and a review of project documents, it is evidentthat OMVS has provided strong supportto
the implementation of the PASIE environmental pilot activities. The signing of the Water


9. Thesecosts are updated as other investmentsareplanned or implemented, and would ultimatelydepend upon
the generationmix between Manantalioutputs,otherhydropower facilities and thennal power plants.

Charter, althoughdelayedby three years, was executedin May 2002. A rational
managementplan for the Manantali reservoir was also implementedthrough which the
objective of supportingthe traditionalagricultural sectordownstream is being pursued in the
threebeneficiary countries.

46.     But the contributionto meeting the debt service associatedwithbuilding the
Manantali dam remainsuncertain. This objectivehas onlybeen modestly achieved.A
HydrologyRisk Fund was set up under RHDP to ensurethe long-term financial sustainability
of the OMVS power system,with the agreementthat it will be built up to FCFA 15billion.
However, at thetime of IEGmission, the Fund only had FCFA 2 billionwhereas the arrears
were aboutFCFA15.8 billion at the end of 2005. The purpose of the HydrologyRisk Fund is
to ensurethat payment obligations aremet in the event of a disasteror apoor rainfall year,
including: (i) operation and maintenancecosts for the power plant and transmission
networks; (ii) the remunerationof EEM (ESKOM~ n e r ~Manantali);(iii) payment of debts
                                                             i e
incurred by the project; and (iv) coverage of SOGEM's working capital requirements.Note
that the Hydrology Risk Fund is a separateissue fi-omthat of arrears,which is explained
immediatelybelow.

47.     Arrears by the 3 national utilitieshave been present sincethe initial operationof
Manantali power plant. At a certainperiod prior to the collapse of the electricutility
privatization scheme in Mali, the private electricityconcessionairehad been using payments
that were due to SOGEM as a bargaining tool with the Malian Governmentin an attempt to
get better terms and conditions.When the EdM privatizationunraveled,EdM was left with
largepayment arrears to SOGEM. However, SOGEM,which now holds the Manantali
assets, is cash-rich and meets all debt payment milestones.The utilities ensure a constant
flow of paymentsto SOGEM for the power supplythat they are gettingftom the Manantali
power plant that was financedunder the RHDP, and for the post-RHDP period, SOGEM has
required long-termpower supply contracts,which did not exist before. However, the amount
of unpaid bills has remained roughly constant in the lastperiod. Data on the present level of
unpaid bills (comprising "old arrears" and contributionsto the Hydrology Fund) are not
exactlyknown. The Audited Financial Statementsfor 2004 mention 16.2billion FCFA (of
which 1.2billion FCFA are subjectto legal disputeby Sknelec)while the Expected Cash
Flow for 2006 fkom uncollectedpayments for 2005 was 10.1billion FCFA. SOGEM is not
allocating anyreserve to the "Main Equipment Rehabilitation Funds", and is not paying any
amountto the old debt relevant to the construction of the ManantaliDam, although these two
obligationsare mentioned in the Manantali Protocol.

48.     With respect to the HydrologyFund, SOGEM theoreticallyhas the h d s for it, but it
is divertingthe funds to rural electrificationinstead, dueto political pressures fiom local
communities,thatare located along the right-of-way for the transmission lines.During the
April 2006 appraisalof the Felou HydroelectricProject (FHEP), it was agreed that the
proceeds of the carbon financingpackage that would become availableduringthe operational
phase of the FHEP will be channeledto rural electrification, so that the HydrologyRisk Fund
canbe provisioned to the agreed levels.

49.     While SOGEM's revenueprojections fkom energy sales currentlyshow that it would
be able to cover its operationalcosts and debt servicepayments and contributionsfor the

period 2003-2030,non-payment of arrears is an importantrisk to the sustainabilityof
SOGEM's operations.The FCFA 15.8billion owed at the end-2005 by EdM (~lectricitkdu
Mali) and Socikt6Mauritanienned7~lectricitk(SOMELEC)to EEM (which collectsthe
payments for SOGEM), is about eight times the current level of cash in the Fund. (The
SociktkNationale d'~lectricit6of Senegal has no arrears.). Although it is the casethat: (i) a
tariff agreement and structureis in place; and (ii) the thee governments guaranteethat they
will contributeto the debt repayment in the event of adverseshortfallsin SOGEMrevenues,
these assurancesdo not address the underlyingproblems which are causing the member
countries' power sector financesto become critical. It shouldbe noted that the vast majority
of the Bank loans to the revenue generatingentitiesarebacked by the sovereignguarantee.
However,virtually all such entities are required to adhere to certain financialcovenantsin
order to benefit from financialdiscipline and ensurefinancialviability of the sector.
Therefore, credibleand sustained actions are stillrequiredto build the HydrologyFund in
order to ensure debt service coverage and the financial viability of SOGEM.

50.     Moreover, the objective of promotingprivate sectorparticipationwas also only
partially achieved. Based on an internationalcompetitive biddingprocess, ESKOM ~ n e r ~ i e
Manantali (EEM, a private firm)was contracted to operatethe facilities. But the searchfor
financingfor future generationprojects downstream Manantali,in particular Felou and
Gouina, is still ongoing.

51.     Other REP Experience.RHDP's performance rating for Outcome falls almost in the
middle of the group of hydropower REPs desk-reviewed as part of this assessment. Apart
from the highly satisfactoryrating for the Brazil-Boliviagaspipeline, ratingswere
unsatisfactory for 4 of the 8 hydropower-relatedprojects (see table below), or doublethe
22% Bank-wideproportion. Thesepoor ratings reflect the fact that 4 of the 7 Bank-financed
damsproduced too much power at too lvgh a price for the targetedmarket in the first years of
operation. However, after these REPs closed, their situationshave now vastly improved with
the growth in their market and the rise in petroleum prices.

52.     ThreeREPs had negative environmental impacts, such as the sedimentation for
Kulekhani, andby today's WB policies, the profitable Karibawould not earn a passing grade
because it caused a huge loss in wildlife habitat. There were positive impacts on
multipurpose aspects,e.g., fisherieswith Nam Gum in Laos, and water resources
managementwith Manantali and the RHDP. Resettlement left much to be desired for 4 dams.
Yacyreta made a disastrous start in its mitigation programs and although delays in
construction and three subsequentBank loansprovided the extra time and opportunitiesto
get the resettlementprogram right, the number of families to resettle increased with time and
completionwas postponed from 1998to 2008. Institutional developmentwas generally
confinedto the project owner but for Brazil, the Brazil-Bolivia gas pipeline stimulated
private investmentin gas distributionand brought about reforms in the structure,output
pricing and regulation of the oil and gas sector.

  Table 2- Completed World Bank ProjectsFor CrossBorder Energy Trading




           1996 OEDReview of Dams (Impacts,BeneJit/Costadjusted to bring resettlementto standards)



  Efficiency

  53.     The RHDP's efficiencyis rated substantial,based on an economicinternal rate of
  return (EIRR)of 21 to 24 percent when the project was completed in 2004 (based on normal
  generation capacity and normal capacity alternatingwith droughts every 5 years), compared
  to the 16percent estimated at appraisal.The EIRR was not recalculated by the IEG mission
. since it would now be clearlyevenhigher at current globalpetroleumprices.

  54.     Although the EIRR component of the efficiencyratingwas given greater weight, it
  should be noted that performanceon other aspectsof efficiencywere modest, given the
  substantialdelays in project completion and overruns in power plant costs, which are not
  consistent with the best practice in terms of cost effectiveness. Further, financially, EdM and
  SOMELEC continueto accumulatearrears(SENELEC is current). Consequently, the
  RHDP's objective of generating surplusrevenue to help meet the dam's debt service
  requirementshas been onlymodestly met, as discussed above. Despite assurances of
  sovereign guarantees,this is a serious issue as it reflects badly on the willingness of the
  utilities to fulfill their financial obligations and on SOGEM's abilityto collect necessary
  revenues. The goal of mobilizing private financingof future generation projects also remain
  to be seen, and the Felou and Gouinaproject under preparation for Bank financingwill be the
  test case.

  55.     Other REP Experience.REPSgenerallyyielded high rewards, except for the Morazan,
  Ruzizi 11, and Yacyreta dams, which showed low benefithost ratios in their early years of
  operation. Implementationefficiencyhas been variable: the Chad-Cameroonpipeline was
  completed one year ahead of schedulebut its supervisionwas costly. Cost and time overruns
  were huge for dams at Kariba, Kulekhani and Yacyreta.

InstitutionalDevelopment Impact

56.     Theproject's institutionaldevelopmentimpact is rated substantial,asthe project is
expected to make significant contributionsto the Region's ability to use its natural and
human resourcesmore efficiently. The degree of cooperation achieved by the three countries
are exemplaryand perhapsunique in the Afiican region. A common Water Charterthat was
agreed amongthe three riparian countries established principles for water resources
management and the protection of affectedpopulations. The applicationof these principles
has been tested and was proven functional. OMVS and SOGEM have alsoproven to be
effectivein their respectiveroles as the river basin organization and owner of the Manantali
dam as well as the associated generationand transmission assets. Both arepursuingthe
PASIErecommendations, although financingto scale-up the pilot activities has not yet been
forthcoming.

57.     There is strong evidencepointing to a high degree of public participation. A new
CommissiononWater Resources serves as a national-level forum for water users, regional
communities andNGOs. In addition, several local coordinating committeeshave been
created for regular consultationson water resourcesmanagement and are functioning
smoothly. Beneficiaryinterviews and documentation reviews indicatethat there are effective
feedback loopsthat link consultativeprocesses and policy-setting within a decentralized
institutionalset-up.A clear exampleis the recent actionto support rural electrificationalong
the transmission lines, given the complaint from local communitiesthat only urban areas
have benefited from electricitygenerated fiom Manantali. (Whilethis is arelevant response,
the funding used-i.e.,  the Hydrology Risk Fund to serviceManantali debt-- was
inappropriate.)

58.     An environmentmonitoring unit and an environmentaldatabasehave been
established in the Officeof the High Commission in OMVS. Thiswill be firther
strengthened and extended to Guineathrough the ongoingGEF Regional SenegalRiver
Basin Water and Environmental ManagementProject. The objectiveof this project is to
provide a participatory and strategic framework for the environmentallysustainable
development of the SenegalRiver Basin and to launch a basin-wide cooperativeprogram for
trans-boundary land and water management. The realization of these objectiveswas greatly
strengthened in May 2002 when the three Heads of Stateof OMVS approved the Water
Charter, within the context of the RHDP. The Charter specificallyaddressesthe issue of
sound environmentalmanagement and acknowledgesthe need for public participation in the
management of sharedwater resources.

Sustainability

59.     Theproject's sustainabilityis rated likely,albeit moderately so giventhe debt
servicingrisks causedby the serious arrearsof EdM and SOMELECto the Hydrologic Fund.
This issue of financialarrearsmust be addressedand the member governmentsneed to take
firm action, as SOGEM's financialresilience is currentlyin question due to these large
arrears.Although there are sovereign guaranteesto service the Manantali debt, and debt
service coverageis not a Bank financialcovenant under RHDP (there were no financial
covenants on the three national utilitiesunder the project), it is important for the Bank to
supportthe donors' calls for EdM and SOMELECto settle their arrears, and for SOGEMto
financethe HydrologyRisk Fund to the agreed level of 15billion FCFA. Assurances are
ofien giventhat member statesand OMVS are likely to provide the necessary financial
resourcesto SOGEM, given the critical role played by the Manantali facilities in the regional
energymarket, but factremainsthat the Fund onlyhas 2 billion FCFA by early-2006.
Moreover, althoughthe sovereign guaranteesultimately ensure that the project-level fmances
will be sustainable,the financesof the sector remain in aprecarious situation due to the
artificiallylow electricitytariffs for final end-users. (Note that SOGEM fullyrecovers costs
at the point of delivery,for which the figures are provided in the table below.) Given the
continuingfiscaldrain fiom the energysector in the three countries, the issue of overall
energy sectorreform shouldremain an important component of both country/sectorand
project processing dialogue.

Table3 : Energy SalesPricesto Utilities at SpecificSales Points (Coyne and Bellier Study)




60.     Otherwise, financial issues aside,the sustainabilityof the project is likely because of
its huge economic resilience as the result of current and forecasthigh oil prices. The
project's physical sustainabilityis also assured. A reliable water-power yield can be achieved
and efficientplant operations can be sustained as long as the dam's storage capacity is
adequatelyused to manage river flow variability. The use of modem, computerized
informationtechnologyin transmissionsystem control and monitoring also enhancesthe
long-termreliability of the transmission system. A private operator (ESKOM) is responsible

for power plant operationsbased on contractually agreed norms, standards and stringent
performanceciteria, as well as additional investmentsto enswe network reliability and
extensionto serve existingand new consumers.

61.     The RHDP's environmentalsustainabilityis also likely. The Water Charter set out the
reservoir managementpolicies, while PASIE has strengthened stakeholderparticipation and
environmentalmanagement at the basin level. The ongoing GEF regional water resources
managementproject would enhanceRHDP7ssustainabilityby further strengthening
environmentalmanagement capacity-building, collectingdata, and building knowledgeon
transboundaryreservoirmanagement.

62.     OtherREP Experience. For REPSin general, the parallel review finds that technical
arrangements to sustainthe benefitshave proven adequate although dam safetymay be a
gray area worth investigating further. While Bank guidelines were complied with during
implementation,one cannot be certainthat they were afterwards since experiencehas shown
that the effectivenessof periodic inspectionsrelies in great part on the local capacityto carry
them out. Financial sustainabilityis no longer an issue for older investments; on the
contrary,issues often arise on how to apportion the economic rents that dams generate .For
new dams, there are often two importantissues that impinge on sustainability:(i) funding for
unfinishedresettlement; and (ii) debt servicingespecially for those that massivelyresorted to
commercialloans.



Bank Performance

63.     The Bank's performance is rated satisfactory, although the quality at entrywas
moderately satisfactoryand the supervisionwas weak during the early states of
implementation.The Bank's experience in this project shows that much leverage can be
achieved while financingonly 9% of the RHDP's total cost. The Bank is credited for
championingthe application of environmental and social safeguards as part of the PASIE,
conductingthe high-level and sensitivedialogue among the three countries, and providing
the "safe space" for multiple donorproject teams to collaborate. The Borrowers credit this
ability to focus on key issues and convokenegotiatingparties as an important factor in
forgingtripartiteagreements, and minimizing the delays and cost increases that threatened
the project at the start.

64.     The Bank participated effectivelyduring project preparation and appraisal, and
allocated a significant amount of time and resources to donor coordination,which at times
showed signs of disagreementand potential collapseof the dialogue. The project documents
also show that the Bank was instrumentalin finalizing, after three years delay, the Water
Charter agreement as well as the tripartite tariff agreement. However, the Bank should have
ensured a better readiness of the project for implementation-- particularly with respect to
civil works, considering the Bank's vast experience in dealing with these type of contracts--
and should have obtained stronger commitments fiom the governmentswith respect to their
undertalungs.

65.      With respect to compliancewith safeguards,the Bank ensured that an environmental
impact assessment of the project was carriedout, which facilitatedthe implementationof the
PASIE,the reservoir managementmechanism that the PASIE mandated, artificial flood
measures, and pilot activities in the health, micro-business and rural electrificationareas.

66.      The Bank's supervisionwas satisfactoryoverall, althoughit started slowly.
Moreover, although there was a supervisionmission about every 5 months, only 8 sitevisits
were made out of 14missionsbetween project effectivenessand closure.Also, the final four
missions (March 2000 to May 2003 period) were made onlyby the Task Team Leader,
despitethe sustainedsupervision effort required by the PASIE sub-components at a time
when the Water Charter and the reservoirmanagementplan had not yet been adopted.
Nevertheless, Bank staff showed flexibilityand responsivenessto implementation issues as
they evolved.

67.       OtherREP Experience. Theparallel review of REPSshowsthat the Bank has the
unique comparative advantageof acting as a convener and resources catalyst, for which it
offersmany integrative and specializedtechnical skills. It has used these assetswell in most
cases and alsobecome a valued promoter of good environmentaland resettlement standards.

68.      The Bank also has generallyperformed well in terms of REP identificationand risk
management. In the past, the Bank may have erred on the conservativeside in seizing and
creating opportunities,but when it chosethe right project to do-irrespective of whether it did
it right-the  rewards-risk ratio was potentially sound. The Bank engaged in more than two
countries onlytwice amongthe 10projects included in this REP desk review. And on two
occasions,namely, for Brazil-Bolilviapipeline and Yacyreta projects, only one side got most
(if not all) of the financial help for a crossborder project. Bolivia and Paraguay, respectively,
acted on their own. In Bolivia, it was on the basis of Bank endorsed privatizations,while in
Paraguay, onlyminimum steps were taken given the prospect of an overabundant electricity
supply, which weakened the will to reform.




Borrowers' Performance

69.      The performance of the Borrowersis rated satisfactory, but moderately so, given the
governments' failureto adhere to some of their undertakings and the implementing agencies'
failureto expeditiously address implementation delays. However, at the end, OMVS and
SOGEMproved capable of achievingthe RHDP's multiple objectivesand complex trans-
boundary operations. The three member countries also demonstratedtheir commitment by
signingthe common Water Charter,which is now considered a model for river basin
developmentin Afiica.

70.      The overallperformance of OMVSwas satisfactoryand its effectivenessis evident
from its planned programs and current actions,which were corroboratedby field interviews
in the three countries as well as among other donors. Particularlynoteworthy is its continuing
support for PASIEYsobjectives and technical assistanceactivities,even though the project

alreadyclosed in June 2004. Ths is evident rom the maintenance of the staffing and
institutionalstructuresinitiatedunder PASIE, with a view to scalingup these pilot activities
under Bank and GEFprojects currently being prepared. However, an issue that needs to be
addressed is the diversionto rural electrificationof the funds that were intended for
provisioning the HydrologyRisk Fund.

71.     SOGEM's overall performance in the physical implementation of the project was also
satisfactory.Although procurement issueswere somewhat contentious and caused delays,
SOGEM,with the assistance of its consultant, eventually addressed contentiousprocurement
issues and managedproject implementation diligently.Project documentsshow that SOGEM
closelymonitored the constructionof the power plant facilities and the transmission lines.
However, although SOGEM addressedtransparently all implementationproblems in its
progress reports, and collaboratedwell with contractorsto find solutions,it did not process
payments expeditiouslythus resultingin numerous work slowdownsby the contractors.



Main Lessons from the RHDP and Regional
    Projects

(a)     Regionalprojects are high risk operationsthat are complex and resource-intensive
        but canyield high rewards.REPs are demanding but these demands can become
        assets in lateryears.

72.     Regional energyprojects (REPs) differ fiom national projects in ways that have
important implicationsfor definingCountryAssistance Strategies for the member countries,
mapping out lendingoperations,and allocatingbudgetaryresources.

73.     REPs require full stakeholderanalysis to understand both (i) the level of commitment,
effortsalreadyundertaken and power exercised by the leaders and championsof refom, and
also (ii) who the winners and losers are. Startinga REP or even completing one like RHDP
raise many questions for governments and utilities. Theirpolitical desirabilityand feasibility
are not always evident and member countries may prove fickle. Country commitment seems
stronger for operatingexisting facilitiescompared to investingin new ones; (for example,
Zimbawe's independencewar did notjeopardize O&M at the Kariba dam. Yet lasting
troubles in a major partner country like Zaire took its toll on the Ruzizi dam). Countriesmay
giveparamount importanceto energysecurityand be willing to diversify away fiom oil or
coal, yet limit imports for gas or electricity. (In the EU, for example,power imports by large
countries have seldom exceeded20% of their needs). Among REP member countries, exports
could be impeded by other hot button issues likerent-sharingamong domestic and foreign
populations. (In Chad, this issuewas defused by mechanisms that promote benefits-sharing
by the population at large. In Argentina, local power consumption was subsidizedwhen its
costwas pushed upwards by exportsto Brazil. In Bolivia, gas exports to Brazil were
accepted, those to Chilewere not and the opposition is not only about the royalty amount.
And evenwithout anyunrest, politicalpressuresbear on the renegotiation of production

sharing and supplyagreements.) If heavyreforms are contemplated,the political economyis
even more complex.

74.     REP risks may be minimized by: (a) clear and equitable agreementson costshenefits
sharing and project output pricing; (b) capableproject management and operation,possibly
by using global energyinvestorsand ring-fencingtheir governance and regulation against
political interference; and (c) implementation supervisionmechanisms that are agile enough
to deal with all the main stakeholdersand sound enough to inspire their trust and respect.

75.     Regional approachesrequire the willingness of partner countriesto sharebenefits and
implement mechanisms that couldpotentially infiingeon their sovereignty. They also
demand stronger expertise from Bank staff in building institutional capital amongthe
member countries. This includes the abilityto forge a broad-based legitimacyof the
authorizingenvironment, intricatevertical and horizontal partnerships, strongpublic
participation, and robust systems to ensure fairnessfor sharingbenefits. Overall,the REP
desk review findsthat while the perfomlance of Bank-financedREPs is improvingbased on
these criteria,high-profile exceptions do occur and are the ones that dominatethe attention of
externalaudiences, to the detriment of lesson-learning from successful experiences such as
the RHDP. For example,weak participationby localpopulations hobbled Yacyreta's
environmentaland resettlementplans but more consultations eventuallytook place and made
a difference in the design of recent projects, e.g., the RHDP and more so the REPs involving
pipelines. Reversalshave also occurred, such as Chad shiftingroyalties away from the
fundingof socialprograms and thus underminingthe major project objective of more
equitablebenefit-sharing.

76.     Differencesin institutionalcapitalmatter all the more if the project aims at deep and
sophisticatedreforms such as market liberalization. For this reason, unrealistic objectives
such as the establishmentof regional regulatorybodies for energytrading have been shelved
even in ambitious regional integrations such as the European Union. Differencesand severe
lags in institutionaldevelopmentwere overcomewith relative ease for hydro and oiVgas
projects by importing and transferring the skills needed forproject management and
operation, as in the RHDP. They can alsobe productivelymanaged by well-functioning
multinationalproject companies and entities such as OMVS for Manantali and the electric
companyof Benin for Nangbeto. A legacy f?om colonialtimes, it helped that member
countries often shared a common institutionalfoundationsand sometimesa common
language,which was also the case of RHDP.

77.     Project management of REPShave stringent requirementsfor clarity and
efficiency, which once met are keyfactors of success. Compared with nationalprojects, the
implementation arrangements, saleslpricingagreementsand governanceframeworkstend to
be sounderbecause REPs adopt systemsthat are closerto world standards. REPs also tend to
involve the most experiencedcontractors.The management and operatingefficiency of REPs
have done well for most projects. The best examples of good practices in close and effective
supervisionare the pipeline projects, including their environmentaland social management
plans. Good contractors would do all that could be done even in extremecases, e.g. flooding
at Kariba. But the comparison is not favorable for some dams, e.g., Ruzizi 11and Yacyreta
where ownership by several governmentsled to a complex sharingof governanceand

cripplingpolitical interferencesin project management. Bidding and contract awardswere
sourcesof delays'and cost overruns for the RHDP and Yacyreta. For the latter, the initial
delays created opportunities-that were missed -to abortthe project, which may have been a
less costlystrategyto copewith the softeningmarket and the lack of fundsthan stretching
implementationfor almost 30 years.

78.     Cross-border cooperation is essentialfor managing risks. Because regional projects
tend to be big, debt-financingalso tendsto be huge. This would impactheavily on single-
country fiscal resources and weaken the financialsustainabilityof dam projects in the first
years (hence the seriousconcern about RHDP's HydrologyFund). The regional approach,
however, has the advantage of dividingthe risks among several off-takers and countries.For
example, Kulekhani and Morazan fared much worse as nationalprojects compared with
regionalpower export projects. Interveningin several countrieshas proven to be a difficult
task especiallyfor health and environmental issues. Trans-boundarycooperation was key in
resolving issueswithin REPs. For example,Brazil's Petrobras cameto the rescue when its
Bolivian partner could not financeits segment of the Brazil-Boliviapipelineproject. The
Chad-Cameroonpipeline project was well servedby an ExternalComplianceMonitoring
Group and periodicallyby an International MonitoringGroup. Selectivelyin the RHDP, two
member countries would voluntarilyload-shed to allocatemore electricityto the 3rd country
duringits peak load periods.

(b)     Theapproachesfor appraising,monitoring and evaluating regionalprojects differ
        significantlyfrom nationalprojects.

79.     Regional energyprojects (REPs) differ from national projects in ways that have
important implicationsfor defining CountryAssistance Strategiesfor the member countries,
mapping out lending operations, and allocatingbudgetaryresources. A key lesson emerging
fi-omRHDP and REPs is that -comparedto single-countryprojects -the Bank and the
Borrowersneed to adopt different metricsnot only in the processing and implementation of
regional projects, but in their evaluation as well. Evidence fi-omthe field points to the
followingimportant differences:

        Multi-countryprojects open up opportunitiesand unexpected benefits that may not be
       present in a single-countryproject. The regional approach can serve as a system of
        checks and balances amongthe partner countries. The additionalefficiencies
        achieved through the interconnection of the three countries, and the consensual,
       tripartite approachto environmentalissues, are examples fiom RHDP. The analysis
        of regional project outcomes, therefore, becomes much more complex.
        In regionalprojects, there are greater expectations fiom the Borrowersand the (most
        likely multiple) donors, and the Bank's role comes into much sharper focus. This, in
       turn, puts greater weight on quality-at-entrywhen evaluatingthese projects,
       particularly with respect to performance criteria such as the Bank's knowledge of the
       local political economy, its adviceand abilityto obtainconsensuson design, and its
        effectiveness in leadingpolicy dialogue across multiple countries. This, in turn,puts
       greaterpressure on partner countries and the Bank to overcome internal silos (for
       example, in cases where partner countries straddle two or more Bank Country

        Departmentsin the Bank, to what extent do these CDs addressjointly the weakest
        country or stakeholderls?)
        Inthe applicationof safeguards,new instrumentssuch as sub-regional Sector
        Environmental Assessments (ratherthan a project-focused EIA) become more
        relevant across several Borrowers.
        Monitoring and evaluation(M&E) systemsbecome criticallyimportant in regional
        projects, given the need to createstrong feedback loopsbetween (i) cross-country
        performance data and (ii) the settingor harmonization of transnational policies related
        to regulatory, environmental, financial, economic,political, institutional,governance,
        transparencyand accountabilityissuesthat mayresult from the regionalproject and
        affect the whole sub-region. By providing '3ust-in-time" performance data, effective
        M&E systems can help minimize the potential delays from havingmultiple countries
        involved.


Immediate Challenges and Lessons for Future Regional Projects

(a)     For the RHDP - the Hydrology Fund should beprovisioned adequately and the
        PASIE needs to be scaled-up soon

80.     The two major shortcomingsin RHDP's otherwise satisfactory outcome are (i) the
low end-userpower tariffs in the member countries, and (ii) the reticence of Mali and
Mauritania to settle their financial arrears with SOGEM, and hence SOGEM's inability to
provision the Hydrology Fund to the levels agreedwith the donors and sufficient to service
the debt on the Manantali dam. Despite sovereign guarantees that the member countries
will pay the debt servicewhen it startsto become due in 2007, these large arrears of almost
15billion FCFA do reflect negatively on the member countries' willingnessto deliver on
commitments,merelypostpone the long-standingneed to adjust end-usertariffs, and could
raise issues regardingthe sustainabilityof the Manantali investmentsif left unresolved for
much longer.

81.     With respect to the PASIE, the successesof the pilot activitiesneed to be sustainedby
scaling-upthe program in the 3 member countries. As a priority, OMVS needs to develop
and implement in coordinationwith respective health related entities in each country, a health
care strategyto addressthe healthproblems affectingthe population living within the
SenegalRiver Basin, focusingparticularly on the reduction of water-borne diseases, the
establishment of much-neededhealth infrastructure, and the strengtheningof institutional
capacity.Although some of thesd short-termmeasures arebeing implemented under the
ongoingGEFproject, they need to be accompaniedby programs to deal with endemic
diseases in the long run.

82.     The member states need to pursue more activelythe poverty alleviationpolicies to the
extent called for in the PASIE. Specifically,the actionsrequired includejob creation and
income-generation activities, alongwith rural electrification and agriculture modernization.
Unless conditions underlyingpersistent poverty are effectivelyaddressed,the economically,
environmentally, and socially sustainabledevelopment for the SenegalRiver Basin will
remain elusive.

83.     To sustainRHDP7spositive outcomes and strengthen future operations,OMVS and
SOGEM also need to implement measures to strengthenand widen the regional energy
market, includingnetwork expansion, better resource allocation, and a long-tenn tariff
agreement. Moreover, the member statesneed to promote conditions that would stimulate
both public and private investments.

(b)    For Regional Energy Projects -thefactors ofperformance need to be better
        assessed and the lessons applied to ongoing andfuture regional interventions

84.     It is importantto ask which factors tend to be associatedwith successhl REPSand
which ones may negatively affect theiroutcomes. Provided below are emerging factors of
performanceunderlying REPs based on the desk review. While these are not evaluative
findings,they can stimulatefurther debate on how to improve the performance and enhance
the sustainabilityof REPs, and serve as evaluation questions for future assessmentsof
regionalprojects.


Project Factors of Performance:Identification and Conceptualization

85.     Priorityto new supplies. It appears that creatinga new energy supplysource has
better prospects in mobilizingownershipand being successfullyimplemented than
distributing an energy "surplus" from one country. One example is that right after its
commissioning,a power line to evacuatesurpluses from Itaipu was supersededby the
strengtheningof the whole ELECTROSUL grid. Another example is the decrease in the
appeal of the West Africa Power Pool when the prospect of electricity surplus receded
because of political unrest in C8te d'Ivoire or delays in getting gas fromNigeria.

86.     The Bank plavina a role of broker and catalyst. The complexity and risks of regional
projects are largely functionof several factors:

        size of expenditures and benefits
        number of countries involved
        social and environmentalimpacts,particularly in the case of dams
        institutional requirements, such as market deregulation

87.     Big projects entail large economic and financialrisks. They need not be gigantic to be
of high risk if they are relatively lumpy comparedto alternativesto serve domesticneeds.
High investments can raise government-guaranteed or -funded debt at unsustainablelevels,
especiallywhen in hard currency.Sharingthe risks and benefits with other countries could be
a solutionbut importantquestionsrelated to country economic management and political
economyneed to be analyzed. In this regard, there could be huge errorsof omission if the
World Bank did not use its comparative advantagesas convener, catalyst and promoter of
good standards for large investments in energysupply. This is especiallytrue in hydropower
for which, as experiencesuggests", developmentby private sponsorsis arduous and requires
more public sector involvementthan is usually estimated. The difficultyof mobilizing


10.ChrisHead,Financing of Private HydropowerProject, W BDiscussionPaper No.420, July 2000.

private sectorinterestspoints to apossiblylarger financingrole for the Bank and other
bilateraVmultilatera1development agencies.

88.      Number of Countries involved While the number of countriesinvolved is a function
of the economic,technical, financial as well as political aspects of the project, clearlya larger
number of governmentsinvolved increases complexity and risks exponentially." A study
hobbledby too many stakeholdersmay take too much time and cost too much money while
stallingneeded investments.A regional interventionworks only if the higher level of
governanceis stable and at arms length with respect to project management and operation
and if that management follows governancerules capable of handling diverse owners.As the
number of countriesincreases,so does the risk of disparitiesin institutionalcapital, level of
commitmentand program disruption.

89.      Carefulpre-screening for social and environmentalrisks. Potential social and
environmentalimpacts add to the already complex issues (notablythe largeup-front
expenditures) involved in multi- or single-purposedams. A reliable screeningof risk levels
canbe based on (a) the number of "oustees", particularly vulnerable ethnicminorities and (b)
the area lost at normal storagelevel.12 With the thresholds that are acceptable nowadays for
eitherone, many dam projects would be rated high risk13and call for extra caution as
proposed in the Dams Management ActionPr~gram.'~All the dam projects reviewedhere,
exceptMorazan, would be rated high risk if only because they displacemore than 20 people
per megawatt (e.g., 218 for Nangbeto).

90.      Avoidance of complexinstitutionalrequirements. The ICR for the Brazil-Bolivia
pipelineproject regretsthat contractswere too rigid and suboptimal. But should the project
have waited for deregulationin both countries? The answer is probably no. Market
deregulationand its corollariessuch as serviceunbundling, Third Party Access and auction-
based pricing will most llkelyput any project in the high risk category.Thispackage of
reforms is hard enoughto implement in one country even in the best of cases: forpower, it
was rejected in hail and'^ and Mexico after it failed in California,not to speak of the
Ukraine and Argentina where it was undermined by macroeconomic woes. Puttingtogether a
soundregional project design and mobilizingresources to tap most of its benefits early is
often enough of a challenge. If contractscan do thejob, maybe market deregulationshould
be promoted through simplernational projects and not through regional approaches.


11. TransportCorridors in Africa, OED 1994.

12.R. Goodland, "EnvironmentalSustainabilityin the Hydro Industry-Disaggregatingthe Debate ",in Large
Dams, Learning fiom the Past Looking at the Future,April 11-17, 1997Workshop Proceedings,Gland,
Switzerland, IUCN-The World ConservationUnion and the World Bank.

13.Define high-risk as follows: (i) major accordingto the InternationalJournal on Hydropower andDams
definition or (ii)high output or cost relative to the country's need and budget or (iii) any operation, irrespective
of size that has high social and environmentalimpactin the Goodland definition.

14.High risk project processing should include:(a) the steps prescribed or advised in the BPSe.g. on pre-
feasibilityscreening,resettlement,stakeholders' participation, internationalwater agreementsand (b) extra due
diligence on river basin planning, benefits sharing, licensing criteria, usage andpricingrequirements.

15. Thailand-Why LiberalizationMay Stall In a Mature Power Market ESMAP Report 270103 October2003.

91.     Scalingobjectives to the weakest link. Moving forward, a key issue for the Bank is to
assess whether it is assumingtoo many downside risks-waste        of time, unmet objectives-if
it were to focuson the establishmentof full-fledged regionalpower pools and an open spot
market that call for simultaneousreforms in severalcountries andjust one of those countries
with little at stake or weak commitmenthas the abilityto delay or block progress.
Consequently,it may be better to minimize the need for blanket regional treaties that have a
slim chanceof materializingor being enforced,while not bringing about any concrete
projects. The cautious approachof the past suggests that involvingthree countriesor less
enablesprojects to tap most if not all of the benefits of a regional approach. Where this was
followed, experience suggests that it is relatively easyto arrive at bilateral or trilateral
agreementstailored to the project needs.


Project Factors of Performance:Implementation

92.     Sanctityof internationalaaeements. The need for internationalagreementsforces
more clarity and internationalgoodpractice into a project. Negotiations may be protracted
but the result is often worthwhile: comparedwith single countryprojects, regional
agreements tend to be harder to tinker with because once closureis obtained at the political
level, governments tend to provide checks and balances for each other.

93.     Involvementof multinationalcorporations. Once a project is identified and its scope
defined,it is the qualityof governanceand project management that will make the most
differencein managing risks in the long run. In settingup these entities, energyprojects
enjoy two advantages:(a,) internationalagreementsthat can be used to ring-fence their
management from political interferenceand (b) the existence of competent corporations --
globalcontractors and investors and at times local operators-- whose core business is the
constructionand operationof energyprojects. Greenfieldinstitution-buildingis a slow and
risky undertaking; therefore,before creatingnew ones, it may be better to try and use a well-
hmctioningone, as is or by expandingits mandate andlor membership (e.g., by admitting
Guinea into OMVS).

94.     Revenue-sharingmechanisms. The sharingof project benefits both among the
countries and within each one is a hot-button issue. It can make or break any deal whatever
its economic merits. Becausethe stakes are so high, the governmentsinvolved and the Bank
can no longer shy away from marshalling equitable and workable solutionsto this problem.
A recent examplesthat yields many useful lessons is the Chad-Cameroonpipeline for oil &
gas. Futureprojects for which the Chad-Cameroon pipeline sharing agreementmay be
instructive, include the Inga in Zaire or Cabora Bassa in Mozambique for hydropower.

95.      Effective supervision. Supervisionmechanisms and entities are important in dealing
with risksrelated to inefficientpublic authorities or new institutions that are not yet fully
operational in the first years of a regional project. ComplianceMonitoring Groups and
International Advisory Groups are good practice as long as they are competent and agile
enoughto act promptly across borders and to inspire trust and respect by the main
stakeholdersin the partner countries. In the case of RHDP, they should be independent from
the member governments, OMVS and SOGEM. As with anyproject, the responsibilityfor
decision-makingshould not be confused with the role of competenttechnical advice. For

regionalprojects, agilitydepends on the abilityof partner countries and the Bank to
overcomethe "technical silos", which are oftenmanifested by poor communications at the
intermediatetechnical levels and decisionbottlenecksat higher levels.

References

Ministkre desAffaires ~tran~kres.2005. iAppui de la CoopkrationFranqaise a 1'Organisationde la Mise en
        Valeur du Fleuve Senkgal. valuation conjointe et partenariale (1994-2004))). No85 Evaluations.
        Directiongknkralede la Coopkrationinternationaleet du Dkveloppement. Mai.Paris.

Ministbre de 1'Agriculture. tatat d'exkcution du programme d'activitks et du budget 2005.))DirectionNationale
        du GknieRural. Projet de DkveloppementRural htkgre en Aval du Barrage de Manantali (PDIAM).
        Mali.

Ministkre de 1'~conomieet des FinancesNinistkre de 17Environnementet de 1'Assainissement.2004. cdettre de
        Politique Sectoriellede l'Environnement.~>Dakar.

Ministkre des Mines, de 19~nergieet de 1'Eau. cd7Energiepour Tous.))Agence Malienne pour le
        Dkveloppement de lY~nergieDomestiqueet de ~'~lectrificationRurale (AMADER).

OMVS.2002. Charte des eaux du fleuve Sknkgal. RksolutionNO5 Confkrencedes Chefs d ' ~ t aet de t
        Gouvernement.28 Mai.

OMVS. 1997.Conventionportant crkation de l'agence de gestion de l'knergie de Manantali. 7janvier.

OMVS. 1996.(Mission d'kvaluation des bailleurs de fonds.))Aide-mkmoire. Projet knergie. Du 27 novembre au
        13dkcembre.

OMVS. 1997.ttsociktk de gestionde l'knergie de Manantali. (SOGEM).))Statutsmodifies par le Conseil des
        Ministres des 11et 12novembre a Bamako.

OMVS.2003. (&tude de faisabilitkdes ouvrages de seconde gknkration a FELOU et GOUINA.))Rapport de
        Phase 3 -FELOUet GOUINA.Version provisoire. Financementdesprojets par le secteurprivk.
        Rapport 10662RP04. Coyne et Bellier Bureau d'hgenieurs-Conseils. Juin.

OMVS.2004a. (30Ans d'expkrience rkussie au service de la gestion d'un bassinpartage. Rencontre de
        formation, d'information et d'kchanges organists a l'intention des parlementaires des ~tats-membres
        de I'OMVS.))Dakar, Sknkgal.Fevrier.

OMVS.2004b. tLProgramme d'Attknuation et de suivi des impacts sur l'enviromement. (PASIE). Cr6dit IDA
        2970-ML1.n Rapport d'achevement. Haut Commissariat. Mai.

OMVS.2004c. cLProgrammed'urgence d'klectrificationmale du bassin du fleuve Senkgal.))Rapport de
        dLjinition duprojet, d'organisation de sa rkalisation dans des ddlais optimisb et de cadrage
        financier.),9 Juin.

OMVS.2005a. (LProjetde gestion desressources en eau et de l'enviromement du bassin du fleuve Sknkgal.))
        ProtocoIe d'accord. Pour la Mise en euvre de la composante 5. Participation du Public.

OMVS/PMF/FEM.2005b. cdlocumentdYEntente,,entre Le Projet de gestiondes ressources en eau et de
        l'environnement du bassin du fleuve Sknkgal(GEFBFS) sous tutelle de 1'OMVS et Le Programmede
        microfinancementdu fonds pour l'environnement mondial (PMFREMIPNUD) du SCnkgal.),
        Novembre.

OMVS.2005c. Etudes de base pour la phase initiale de mise en place de I7Observatoirede lYEnvironnement.
        Note d'infonnation. Janvier. DocumentInterne.

OMVS.2005d. (Notes Techniquesde lYObservatoireRelatives a.u~uivi-Evaluationde 17Etatde
        1'Environnement du Bassin du Fleuve Sknkgal.), Haut - Commissariat. Observatoire de
        1'Environnement.Janvier.

OMVS. 2005e. td'rogramme de Gestionintkgrke des ressources en eau et de dkveloppement des usages a buts
        multiples dans le bassin du fleuve Sknkgal.Version Provisoire. Dkcembre.

OMVS. 2005f. c-pport    d'Activitks PrernikreAnnCe et Programme2006.))Projet de Gestion des ressources en
       eau et de l'environnement du bassin du fleuve SCntgal.Haut Commissariat. Novembre. Dakar.

OMVS. Introducingthe SenegalRiver Development Organisation.ccWt it is and What it does."

Rkpublique Islamiquede Mauritanie(RIM).2005. (<Projetd'Appui i la Rkfoxme des Secteurs de 17Eau,de
       I'Assainissement et de 1'Energie (PARSEAE).)) Mission de Supervision et de prtparation du Rapport
       d7Ach8vementdu Projet. 8 au 17dtcembre. Aide mkmoire.

                                                                     Annex A


AnnexA. Basic Data Sheet


Key Project Data (amountsin US$ million equivalent)
                                  Appraisal        Actual or      Actual as % of
                                   estimate     current estimate appraisal estimate

Total projectcosts                   445.5           342.6             76.9

Loan amount                          38.7            36.5              94.3

Cofinancing                          406.8           306.1             75.2


CumulativeEstimated andActual DisbursementsBy Fiscal Year
                          (In US$million equivalent)
IDA Credits               1998    1999     2000     2001     2002  2003      2004

Mali (IDA 29700)          2.87     1.88     1.74    2.96     1.45  3.55       1.29

Mauritania(IDA 29710)     1.70     1.57    2.29     1.59     0.48  2.57      0.36

Senegal (IDA2920)         1.61     1.45    2.11     1.67     0.47  2.36      0.53

Total                     6.18    4.90     6.14     6.22     2.40  8.48      2.18

Total Cumulative          6.18    11.08    17.22   23.44    25.84  34.32     36.50


Proiect Dates
                                         Original                  Actual

Initiating memorandum

Negotiations

Boardapproval

Signing

Effectiveness

Closing date

                                        30          Annex A


Staff Inputs (staffweeks)
                                          Actual

                           Staff weeks

Preappraisal

Appraisal

Supervision

Total

                                                                            Annex A


Mission Data
                  Date      No. of Staff   Specializations        Performance Rating
               (month/year) persons days     represented
                                     in                      Implementation Development
                                    field                      Progress       Objective

Identification1    n.a        n.a
Preparation

Appraisal      11/26/1996     15         Mission Leader (I),
                                         Power Engineer
                                         (1), LeadAdvisor
                                         (I), Counsel (I),
                                         Agriculture
                                         Specialist (I),
                                         Environment
                                         Specialist (I),
                                         EnvironmentLegal
                                         Specialist (I),
                                         Private Sector
                                         Specialist (I),
                                         HealthSpecialist
                                         (1), Task Team
                                         Assistant (I),
                                         Economist ( I),
                                         Consultants for
                                         economic,
                                         hydrology, financial
                                         and institutional(4)

Supervision 06/05/1998         1         Sr. Energy                S
                                         Specialist (I),

               0211011999      5
                                         Team Leader (I),
                                         Environment
                                         Specialist(I),
                                         Financial Specialist
                                         (I), Agriculture
                                         Economist (I),
                10121/I999     6         ProjectOfficer (I)        S


                                         Team Leader (I),
                                         Economist (1),
                                          Reservoir
                                         Management(I),
                                         Financial
                                         Management(1)             S
                                          Procurement (I),
                                          NGO (1)                  S


                                         Task Team Leader          S
                                         (1)
                                                                   s
                                         Task Team Leader
                                          (1)

                                                 32                     Annex A


              Date      No. of Staff  Specializations       Performance Rating
           (month/year) persons days       represented
                                 in                    Implementation Development
                                field                    Progress       Objective


                                     Task Team Leader
                                     (1


                                     Task Team Leader
                                     (1
                                         )7


Completion 0512112003                Task Team Leader

                                                33                                    Annex B


Annex B. Note on the Desk Review of
    World Bank Regional Energy Projects

  1.    To increasethe usefulness of the findings and lessons fiom this ProjectPerformance
  Assessment Report (PPAR) and enhance its relevanceto the World Bank's growing
  number of regional energyprojects (REPs), IEG conducteda desk review of other regional
  projects in the electricity and oil & gas subsectors, to serveas the larger context for
  comparativeperformancevis-A-vis the Senegal/Mali/Mauritania-RegionalHydropower
  DevelopmentProject (RHDP) The desk review covered 9 projects that supported cross-
  border energytrade and include 7 hydropower and 2 pipeline projects (withthe year of
  closing indicated):

        Nam Gum hydropower (1972) in Laos servingLaos and Thailand
        Karibahydropower at the border of Zambia and Zimbabwe servingboth (1980)
        Ruzizi I1hydropower at the Burundi-Rwanda-Zaireborder servingall 3 (1989)
        Nangbeto in Togo serving Togo and Benin (1992)
        Itaipu hydropower at the Paraguay-Brazil border servingboth (1984)
        Manantali hydropower in Mali servingMali, Mauritania and Senegal(2004)
        Yacyreta hydropower at the Paraguay-Argentinaborder servingboth (2003)
        Bolivia-Brazil gas pipeline (2000)
        Chad-Canieroonpetroleum pipeline (2004)


2.      The overviewalso mentions technical assistance for establishing/improvingpower
trade in West Africa (WAPP), SouthAfkica (SADC), Latin America and the GreaterMekong
area. Data and comments are added for two projects not intended forregional trading but
that exported a fair share of their output at least in their first years of operation:

        Kulekhani hydropower in Nepal (1982)
        Morazan (El Cajon) hydropower in Honduras (1985)

3.      The World Bank's main regional REPs are found in the hydropower and oiVgas
pipeline subsectors.The experienceand lessons from REPs are stillrelevant today. REPs
have yielded sizeablebenefits and the risks, while high, were well known and manageable.
REPs have special characteristics:they have seldom involvedmore than two countries;they
have relied on regional institutions to facilitatethe trans-boundary studies; and they have
hardlyneeded major reformsbecause they could be implementedand run by enclave
multinational companiesthat tend to enjoy better governanceand resiliencethan national
utilities and operatewith relative efficiencyunder their own rules.

4.      Main Characteristics of REPs. The RHDP sharesmany of the characteristicsof
other REPs, as follows:

        REPs are high risk-high reward operations. There aremany opportunities for REPs
        whose costs and benefits to the main stakeholdersmake them politically desirableto

                                                     34                             Annex B


        undertake. However, the same cannot necessarilybe said for power interconnection
        projects that redistribute a tight supply.
        Desirable REPs includethe development of hydropower, fossil he1production and
        energytransport markets. Sincethey involvehigh risks at the outset, they should
        avoid additionalcomplexity, e.g., involve 3 countries or less, and stick only to the
        most essentialpolicy reforms.

OtherREP characteristicsare discussed immediately below.

5.      Rationale and Scope of REPs. The REP concept usually originates fiom sector
studiesthat make the case for energymarket integration as well as regional approachesto
tacklethe complex package of policies and investments. Generally,region-wide studieshave
plodded along for 5 to 10years (e.g., for power pools), and even longer the more countries
are involved. In some cases, these studieshave led to projects in (rarelymore than) two
countries and have featured multipurposeor singlepurpose hydropower plants and/or
dedicatedtransmission lines; upstream oil or gas developmentwith dedicated pipeline
facilities; cross-borderinterconnectionsto enhance supplyreliability, albeitmore rarely.
These REPs are usuallyjustified on the basis of: (a)using a resource located at the common
border of several countries;(b) enhancingthe availabilityand low cost of energy and water
by tapping a cheap resource endowmentthat is too big for any one country to develop, and
maximizing economies of scale; and (c)promoting regional integration as an overarching
political goal. What precipitatesthe actualREP intervention is an imminent shortageor a
surgein demand, or potentialproblems created by the sub-optimalor unilateral use of a
commonresource. This, and a commonborder resource, apply to the RHDP.

6.      The qualityof REP studieswas generallymixed and althoughrelevant, their impact
was notable onlywhen they fed into well-funded projects. The contrast is strikingbetween
(a) studiesthat led to projects and sales contractsinvolving 2 or 3 countries and (b) region-
wide studies to fosterregional power trade and power pools. For the latter, some long-
awaited agreementshave emerged, e.g., for the West Ahca Power Pool (WAPP) and the
MekongRiver Basin. Even then, onlythe basics have been addressed and a lot remains to be
done to anive at a regional pool and tangible benefits.

7.      Role of the WB and Partners in REPS. The WB escheweddam construction for
Itaipu (helpingwith Extra High Voltagetransmissiononly) and Manantali (transmissionand
generatingfacilitiesonly). Lending involved the usual partners: energyministries and
national companiesin each country, niultilateral and bilateral donors, and commercial banks.
Oil & gas projects involved major global energy investors in addition, e.g. Exxon and
Chevron for the Chad-Cameroonpipeline.Donors funded a large share of the studies (often
through trust funds such as the Energy SectorManagement Assistance Program and the
Population and Human ResourceDevelopment Fund) but only a small fraction of the
physical components.Regional entities played a limited role, mostly as facilitatorsfor studies
involvingmore than two countries,e.g.,the Greater Mekong Commission,the Comisi6n de
Integration ElectricaRegional forpower trading in Latin America, and Economic
Community of West African States(ECOWAS) for the WAPP.

                                              35                                 Annex B


8.     Project management was-- and operationcontinuesto be-- vested in multinational
entitieswhen dealingwith a shared resource at or near common borders, e.g., dams at Ruzizi,
Kariba, Manantali, Itaipu and Yacyreta. For pipelines, the segment in each countryisjointly
owned by global investors and a partnerin that country, generally a state-owned enterprise
(an exceptionis the YPBF, a private company holdingthe minority share of Chad in the
Chad-Cameroonpipeline). Consultationand mutual support agreementswere and still are
used amongco-owners,e.g., assistance by Zimbabweto Zambia and by Argentinato
Paraguayfor the operation and maintenanceof Kariba and Yacyreta respectively.

9.      After the REPSclosed, their situationshave now vastly improved with the growth in
their markets and the rise in petroleum prices. One exception,however, is Yacyreta:
althoughthe last unit was commissionedin 1998,the plant operates only at 60% of capacity
because the reservoir cannotbe filled until resettlement difficultieshave been overcome.


                                            37                               Annex C


Annex C - Description of the Transmission
System

The transmissionsystem fkomManantali consisted of an Eastern System toward Bamako and
a Western System toward Dakar. The Eastern System comprised a 306 krn long, single-
circuit 225 kV transmissionline (TL) from Manantali to Kodialani (Bamako),with an en-
route supply at Kita; and a 20 km long, 150kV TL built between Kodialani and Sirakoro,
where the Eastern System interconnectswith Electricit6du Mali (EDM s.a) system. The
Western System compriseda 945 km long, single-circuit225 kV TL fi-omManantali to
Tobene. At Sakalit interconnected with the SociCttNationale dlElectricitCdu SCnCgal
(Senelec) system.The Sakal to Tobene 225 kV TL already existed. Substations ensuring
energy supplywere to be established at various locations along the SenegalRiver, in
particular Kayes, Matam, Dagana, and Sakal.From Dagana, a 30 km long, single-circuit 225
kV TL was to be fed at Rosso through a 132kV, 195km TL with SociktCMauritanienne
d1ElectricitC(S0MELEC)'s system atNouakchott. At Matam, the network was to connect
into a 90 kV, 86km TL to Kaedi.


                                                                                   Annex D


Annex D - PASIE Components

The componentsof the EnvironmentalImpactsMonitoring and MitigationProgram (PASIE)
are described below:

(1)Monitoring, Coordination,and Communication Program

This component called for continuous collectiveconsultationthrough a steeringcommittee at
the regional OMVS level, and subcommitteesin charge of water management and
environmentalhealth assessments.The program also called for effectivepublic participation
through committees established at local and national levels, as well as initiation of an active
public informationprocess. Environmentalmonitoring was also put in place, and
environmental databaseswere created.

(2) ConstructionImpact Mitigation and MonitoringProgram

To furtherenhance and strengthenthe environmentalmonitoring aspect of the project,
comprehensive environmentalmanagement procedures and detailed remedieswere included
in the project civil works contracts.These procedures proved effective in limitingphysical
degradationto the maximum extent possible to the dam and power facilities immediate
environment.

(3) Appropriation and Right-of-way Program

This program consisted of three parts: (i) Right-of-wayduring construction, where the
transmission line program sought to avoid already developedland, and expropriationslargely
avoidedprivately owned agriculturalland; (ii) a compensationprogram for privately
occupied land,based on market values; and (iii) a reforestationprogram mandating
compensationfor affectedpublic forests to be made by OMVS in the form of reforestation of
an equivalent area.

(4) OptimalReservoir Management Program (ORMP/MRMP)

This componentinvolved studies assessingthe implications of specificwater uses. Important
factorsincludedthe artificial flood fiom the Manantali dam, and optimization of the
management of Manantali and Diarna dams. Studieshave been undertaken to support the
preparation of the MRMP and the Water Charter, which arenow in effect.

(5) EnvironmentSanitationProgram (ESP)

Environmental health and environmentalconcerns arosenot as a consequence of the project,
but as a consequenceof the Diama and Manantali dams,which were not financed by IDA.
The area had become prone to water-borne diseases, especiallyintestinal and urinary
bilharzias and malaria. To address these issues, the three Governments,in agreementwith the
World Bank, made the strategic choice to limit the role of the OMVS HC to an awareness,

                                                       40                            Annex D


monitoringand integrativerole of national health and environmental health programs in the
Basin. As a result, environmentalhealth activitiesplanned by PASIE were limited to three
domains: (i) pilot projects aimed at limitingcontact between humans and infectedwater,
preceded by a feasibilitystudy; (ii) study of reservoir fluctuations,to better define their
correlationwith the decreasein the number of snails,transmission agents of bilharzias; (iii)
preparation and monitoringof a regional environmentalhealthplan.

(6) Other Associated Measures

Thesemeasures included: (i) assistance to the Manantali limnologyunit, whose goal was to
monitor the water quality of the reservoir, the traditional fishing systemin the reservoir, and
the health status of people in the area. This assistancealso provided expertise in fi-eshwater
fishingto Senegal and Mauritania, as well asto other parts of Mali; (ii) promotion of rural
electrificationin the SenegalRiver Basin, consisting of a comprehensive study of the
promotion of electricityin rural areas, and detailed studies on the design of adequate supply
solutions; and (iii)poverty alleviationand income generatingactivities.

                                     Annex E


Annex E - Project Financing Shares   (at
appraisal)


     DonerILender           % Share

        AFD                  22 %
        KFW                  14%
       FADES                 10%
         UE                  9 %
        BE1                  9 %
        IDA                  9 %
        FAD                  8 %
        BID                  6 %
        ACDI                 6 %
       BOAD                  5 %
      SOTELMA                1%
      MAURITEL               1 %
       Interest              2 %

        Total               100 %


                                                                              Annex F


Annex F - Borrower Comments

ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
MINISTRY OFRURAL DEVELOPMENT



                        PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT
                                                  for the
               "MALI, MAURITANIAAND SENEGALREGIONAL HYDROPOWER
                                     DEVELOPMENT PROJECT"
                                 THE WORLD BANK JUNE 21,2006




                 COMMENTS ON THE FORMAT OF THE REPORT


After reviewing the document, a number of observations regarding the format were made.

The document contained the following spelling and grammatical errors and omissions:

Page on Abbreviations and Acronynis: the list is incomplete;

Page 2, 1.7: Please replace with "le Haut Commissariat est dirigC" [the High Commission is
headed];

Page 2, 1.8: Please replace with "Elle (la SOGEM) est gkr6e.... et dirigke" [It is
administered...and headed by];

Page 2, 1.11:Please replacewith "le Haut Commissariat" [theHigh Commission];

Page 3, 1.11: Please replace with "devait fournir A la SOGEM l'expertise" [was to provide
SOGEM with expertise];

Page 5, 1.20: Please replace with "l'appel d'offke a kt6 lancC" [the bidding process was
launched];

Page 5, 1.20: Please replacewith "il eut" [therewas];

Page 5, 1.21: Please replace with "les fiais d'exploitation de 1'0MVS" [operating costs of
OMVS];

                                                   44                            Annex G


Page 5, 1.21: Please replace with "leur contribution      son budget" [contribution to its
(SOGEM's) budget];

Page 6, 1.22: Pleasereplace with "la saisondes pluies de 1999" [I999rainy season];

Page 6, 1.26: Please replace with "1'OMVS et la SOGEM se sont adaptkes" [OMVS and
SOGEMadapted];

Page 7, 1.27: Please replace with "la passation des marchks... devrait aussi etre avancCen
[procurementactivities...shouldbe as advanced];

Page 7, 1.27:Please replace with "gestionnaires" [management];

Page 7,2.2: Pleasereplacewith "Le PDRH a egalementrnis" [TheRHDP also mainstreamed];

Page 8,2.5: Pleasereplace with "du Haut Commissariat" [ofthe High Commission];

Page 8,2.5: Please replacewith "(RAOB)";

Page 9,3.2: Pleasereplacewith "populationsriverainesdu bassin du fleuve" [populationofthe
SenegalRiver Basin];

Page 9, 3.2: What does "environnementales 5" mean?;

Page 9, 3.3: What does "les trois pays6" mean?;

Page 9, 3.4: Please replace with "La stratkgie2001 de la Banque a renforcC l'aide techtuque"
[TheBank's 2001 strategy features increased AAA...support];

Page 9, 3.4: What does "en avril2006.2" mean?;

Page 10, 3.8: Please replace with "leur installation et mise en service n'ont eu lieu" [their
installation and satisfactorycommissioningwere completed only];

Page 11, 3.12: Please replace with "les trois gouvernements devraient contribuer" [the three
governments guaranteethat they will contribute];

Page 12,3.13: What does N/O in Table 1mean?;

Page 13,3.18: What does ManantaliH mean?;

Page 13,3.18, Table 2: Pleasereplace with "eau +poisson" [water+ fish];

Page 13,3.18, Table 2: What do the terms "mgmt" and "exploit terre" [land use] mean?;

Page 14,3.19: Update the ElRR in the final report;

                                           45                                 Annex F



Page 14,4.1: Please replace with "1'OMYS et la SOGEM se sont avkrkes" [the OMVS and
SOGEMhave alsoproven];

Page 15,4.11: Pleaserephrasethe final sentence;

Page 17,6.3:Please replacewith "des l&chers"[releases];

Page 19, 7.3: Please replace with "les march&...ont provoquk"; and "la SOGEM, aidCe"
[procurementissues...caused; and SOGEM,with the assistance];

Page 22,8.8, Table2: Pleaserephrase the final sentence;

Page 23,9.3: Please includethe poverty reduction level recommendedby PASIE;

Page 23,9.4: Replacewith "leurs enseignementsappliquks" [applied lessons];

Page 25,9.9: (b) Replacewith "la zone noyke 2i la cotenonnale du reservoir" [the area lost at
normal storage level];

Page 33, Annex B, 5: Replace with "pertinente" in the first sentence, and "CEDEAO" in the
penultimate one" [relevant;and ECOWAS];

Page 35, Annex C: Sakalis not located along the river;

Page 33, Annex D, (5): Replacewith "le Haut Commissariat" [the High Commission];


                                           Done in Nouakchott, September 7,2006.


                                                                            Annex G


Annex G - List of Persons Met

I. Senegal

Minist6re de 1'~conomieet des Finances
M. DiatourouNdiaye, Chef de la Division, Programmation et Suivi des Projets

Organisation pour la Mise en valeur du fleuve SCnCgal (OMVSI
M. Moharned Salem Ould Merzoug, Haut Commissaire
M. Moctar Sylla, Directeur des Etudes
M. Yaya Arnadou Sow, Chef de la Division Suivi et
      Promotion du DCveloppement Agro-Sylvo-Pastoral
M. Mahamadou Sacko, Coordonnateurdu Cache Inclusif, DCpartment Technique
Mme. NdCye Dior Mbacke, Expert RCgional Informationet
      Participationdu Public, Project GEFIBFS

Ministere de 1'~nergieet des Mines
M. CheikhDiakhate,Directeur de Cabinet du Ministre d'~tat


M. Mamadou Tall, Directeur de Cabinet du Ministre d7Etat
M. Ndiawar Dieng, Conseiller Technique du Ministre
Mme. Fatima Dia TourC, Directrice,Direction de 1'Environnement
      Et des ~tablissementsClassCs
M. Path6 Balde, Chef de la Division Cadre de Vie
Mme. Aita Sarr Seck, Biologiste Environnementaliste
Mme. Tadia Carvalho Fall, Juriste Environnementaliste

Ministhe du Plan et du DCveloppementDurable
S.E. M. Mamadou Sidibe, Ministre
M. AboubaryDemba Low, Directeur de Planification
M. Skni Coly, Conseiller Technique
M. Amadou Dickel Niane, Conseiller Technique

Ministke de I'Agriculture et de I'Hydraulique
M. Oumar Top, SecrktaireGdnCral
M. Thierno Mademba Gaye, Directeur de Cabinet du Ministre d'~tat
M. Ababacar Ndao, Coordonnateur, CelluleNationale OMVS
M. Babou Sarr,Directeur de la Maintenanceet de 17Entretien
M. Maniadou Sarr, Directeur Adjoint de la Direction Gestion et
       Planification des Ressources en Eau

SociCtCNationale d9~lectricitC  (SENELEC)
M. Abdoulaye Dia, D616gu6 aux Mouvernents d9~nergieet TCl6cornrnunications

                                                                       Annex G


M. Papa Mademba Biteye,DEA Energie Solaire
M. Alioune Fall, Chef du ServiceDispatchmg


11.Mali

SociCtCde Gestion de 1'~nergiede Manantali -OMVS (SOGEM)
M. SaloumCissC, Directeur General
M. Mountaga Diallo, Directeur Departement Technique
M. Moussa Niang, DirecteurDkpartment Administratif et Juridique
M. MahamadouY. Miaga, Directeur Financier

Ministbe des Mines, de 1 ' ~ n e r ~etede 1'Eau
                                    i
M. SouleymaneDiallo, Chef de Cabinet
M. OusmaneKanoute, Conseiller Technique
M. Oumar Sidibk,DirectionNationale de 19~nergie
M. Moolibo Traore,Expert ~nergie,CelluleOMVS

Agence Malienne pour le DCveloppementde 1'~nergieDomestique
       et de ~'~lectrificationRurale (AMADER)
M. Amadou Tandia,PresidentDirecteur General
Mrne. Niang Emma Kourouma, Chef de ServiceMatrise de la Demande
       En ~nergieDomestique

Minist6re de I'Environnement
M. Yafong Berthe, SecretaireGeneral

Direction Nationale de I'Hydraulique
M. Sidi Tour&,Chef de DivisionInventaireRessourcesHydrauliques

Proiet de DCvCloppementRural IntegrC en Aval du Barrage de Manantali (PDIAM)
M. Aliou Bamba, Directeur

~nergiedu Mali (EdM)
M. Alpha Sdkoou Djittkye,DirecteurGCnkral
M. Daouda Kane, Directeur GknQal Adjoint'
M. Georges Garrigue,Directeur GeneralElectricit6
M. Koulibaly, Chef Servicede Planification



111.Mauritania

MinistCredes Finances
M. Niang Idrissa, Directeur Adjoint de la Dette Exteneure

Ministke de 1'Hvdraulique

                                                                Annex G


M. Brahim Ould Bah, CoordonnateurNational, OMVS
M. Oumar Coulibaly,Directeur
M. Bouyaqui Camara, Chef ServiceIrrigation
M. Mohamad Fade1Ould Saadbouh,Chef de ServiceRessources en Eau

SONADER
M. Guisset Alassane Cherif,Directeur~tudeset Arnknagements

Ministltrede 1'~nergieet du PCtrole
M. Tall Ousmane, Directeur

SociCtCMauritanienned'~lectricit6(SOMELEC)
M. Mohamed Ould Bahya, Directeur Gknkral
M. Lam Mamadou, Directeur GkneralAdjoint
M. SidiM7BareckBihizia, Directeur Technique


