Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  03/04/2008 
Report No.:  AC1486
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Peru 
Project ID:  P094152 
Project Name:  Peru Irrigation Sub-Sector Supplemental Project 
Task Team Leader:  Douglas C. Olson 
Estimated Appraisal Date: March 21, 2005 
Estimated Board Date: June 14, 2005 
Managing Unit:  LCSEN 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Irrigation and drainage (66%);Central government administration 
(31%);Agricultural extension and research (3%) 
Theme:  Rural services and infrastructure (P);Rural policies and institutions (P);Pollution 
management and environmental health (S);Personal and property rights (S);Water 
resource management (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
10.26 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
8.60
8.60 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The project objective is to increase the productivity of irrigated agriculture in the 
Borrower’s coastal and mountain territory in order to improve the well being of farmers 
and contribute to poverty alleviation   
 
3. Project Description 
The project includes five major components: 
 
Component A.  Rehabilitation and Improvement of Irrigation Systems (US$5.47 
million) 
 
The component would finance the design, implementation, and supervision of civil 
works for the rehabilitation and improvement of public irrigation systems in the coastal 
and sierra areas.  Each subproject will not exceed US$250,000 and will be selected by a 
prioritization procedure which includes criteria related to tariff and cost-sharing levels.  
The work will be executed by Water Users Organizations (WUOs) directly (force 
account) or by the Project.  The beneficiaries will finance the engineering studies and will 
participate in the civil work cost with a minimum of 40 percent in the coastal area and 20 
Page  2
per cent in the Sierra (including the cost of engineering studies).  To be eligible for this 
component, WUOs must achieve eligibility conditions.  In the coastal areas, those consist 
of : (a) a technical manager appointed by the relevant WUO; (b) a realistic budget 
adopted allowing efficient operation and maintenance and reflected in water tariffs; (c) 
advanced tariff payment system adopted; (d) 75 per cent of said tariff being paid in 
advance.  The eligibility criteria for the Sierra consist of that the WUO is legally 
established in accordance with the applicable Peruvian laws, has enforceable operating 
regulations and effective administrative capacity. 
 
Component B.  Incentive program for irrigation technology improvement (US$6.17 
million).  This component would finance, through incentives, the technification of 
irrigation for groups of farmers.  The component would finance gravity and pressurized 
systems, including collective and on-farm investments.  Farmers would be selected by 
competition for the allocation of incentives.  The evaluation will weigh the technical, 
financial and business plan components of the proposals in such a way as not to favor 
better-off farmers and promoting integration into productive chains (cadenas 
productivas).  Each subproject shall not exceed US$250,000.  The farmers will finance 
the engineering studies and will participate in the civil work cost with a minimum of 50 
to 60 per percent in the coastal area (depending on the type of technification) and a 
minimum of 10 per cent in the Sierra (including the cost of engineering studies).   
 
Component C.  Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building (US$4.12 million).   
 
Subcomponent C1.  Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building of WUOs.  This 
sub-component would provide training to WUOs and Irrigation Committees to help them 
achieve (a) eligibility for subproject financing (Component A and B) and (b) self-
sufficiency in technical, financial and administrative aspects.   
 
Subcomponent C2.  Capacity Building in Technification of Irrigation.  This sub-
component would: (a) prior to technification, provide capacity building programs 
including sensitization initiatives, promotion of group formation and technical assistance 
in the preparation of subproject profile and business plan and integrated pest management 
techniques; and (b) after technification, finance extension activities aimed at other 
farmers, to achieve a multiplying effect, promoting the adoption of technified irrigation, 
including irrigation technologies, associated crop practices and integrated pest 
management. 
 
Component D. Support to Water Resources Management (US$4.80).  The 
subcomponent would (a) finance the formalization and issuance of water rights licenses 
in favor of approximately 215,000 irrigated lots and support the organization of irrigation 
users in irrigation blocks to facilitate the management of these rights; (b) establish an 
administrative registry of water rights for the administration of water licenses, permits 
and authorization; and (c) support the preparation of a National Water Resources 
Strategy, including discussion for a at the national and sub-national levels and the reform 
of the legal framework for water use. 
 
Page  3
Component E.  Project Coordination and Monitoring (US$1.45).  Strengthening of the 
PSI to enable it to carry out its coordination and monitoring functions for the Project.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
At the time of appraisal, the project covered exclusively the coastal area.  The proposed 
project restructuring would, at the request of the Government, extend the project area to 
three valleys of the Sierra (Colca, Mantaro and Cajamarca) in order to support the new 
Government priority program for the development of the impoverished Sierra region 
–
Programa Sierra Exportadora. In both the Coast and the Sierra, there is scope for 
improving farms incomes by increasing yields and switching to higher value crops for 
exports, if adequate irrigation improvements and farmers training are provided.  In the 
coast, farmers tend to use an excessive amount of pesticides without proper technical 
criteria, causing important contamination risks of agricultural produce, soil and water and 
increasing production costs.  Water use efficiency is low in both the coast and the sierra, 
due to inadequate operation and maintenance of irrigation infrastructure and the use of 
unimproved irrigation technology.  Waterlogging and salinization is a serious problem in 
irrigation schemes in Peru’s coastal area.  It is estimated that 40 per cent of the total 
cultivated land in the coastal valleys is affected, to some extent, by soil salinization.  The 
Sierra Region is characterized by a high concentration of indigenous farmers.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Maria Elizabeth Dasso (LCSSO) 
Ms Ann Jeannette Glauber (LCSEN) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
 
1.
Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
 
Page  4
Irrigation in Peru is associated with a series of environmental issues which include: (a) 
waterlogging and salinization in the coast; (b) water quality; (c) erosion and siltation; (d) 
alterations of groundwater hydrology in the coast; (e) changes in stream morphology and 
(f) inappropriate use of agrochemicals, mainly in the coast.   
 
The project supports improvements to existing irrigation systems servicing agricultural 
lands.  Such investments are intended to promote irrigation efficiency, thereby reducing 
the overexploitation of threatened ground- and surface-water supplies, reducing the rate 
of soil salinization, waterlogging and erosion 
–
all of which are critical environmental 
issues in the project area. Given the projects emphasis on improving irrigation 
techniques, the project is expected to result in reduced water use and salinization in the 
project area. Further environmental benefits will accrue from the formulation of a 
national water resources management strategy that is supported by the Project. 
 
The project also supports technical assistance to beneficiaries, including water user 
groups and individual farmers. Such technical assistance supports increased irrigation 
efficiency, as well as transition from low- to high-value crops, and includes training on 
safe pesticide management and integrated pest management (IPM). Specific attention is 
given to identify those subprojects where pesticides may be particularly important to 
success (such as conversion to newer crops such as asparagus and paprika), so that 
project technical assistance and monitoring can be targeted to those subprojects. The 
project’s focus on IPM is considered to result in a significant environmental improvement 
in the project area, especially since the without-project scenario is characterized by 
intensive use of pesticides dangerous to humans and the environment. The project’s 
emphasis on wise pesticide use, coupled with capacity building for pesticide management 
and selection of pesticides compatible with OP 4.09 and Codex Alimentarus also 
represent a significant improvement in pesticide usage compared to the current situation 
within the project area. 
 
The project is expected to have a positive impact on social inclusion by increasing assets 
and economic opportunities for more than 32,000 rural families in the Coastal and Sierra 
regions.  Positive social results are expected from: (a) the regularization of water rights, 
which would reduce water conflicts and increase incentives for on-farm investments 
(including irrigation improvements); (b) the rehabilitation and modernization of irrigation 
infrastructure which would increase water availability and timing of delivery, thereby 
reducing water conflicts, increasing yields of existing crops and making possible the 
production of higher value crops for exports and (c) strengthening water users 
associations thereby increasing the sustainability of irrigation investments, reducing 
water conflicts and increasing the performance of irrigated agriculture production.   
 
As such, there are no anticipated large-scale, significant, or irreversible adverse impacts 
associated with the project during either the construction or operation phases. Potential 
negative environmental and social impacts would be very limited.  Social negative 
impacts could include:  (a) social conflicts between campesinos, non indigenous people, 
mestizos, and migrants from other departments attracted by the new opportunities that the 
project would create; (b) job opportunities from other areas of the country could attract 
Page  5
male beneficiaries leaving youth and women to manage irrigation schemes with no 
training.  These risks are mostly limited to the Sierra and the project will mitigate them 
through the implementation of Indigenous People Plans where needed.  The project will 
not fund any sub-project that would require resettlement, deforestation or could adversely 
affect natural habitats, biodiversity, and cultural heritage sites.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
n/a   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
n/a   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
An environmental assessment (EA) was carried out during preparation of PSI I that 
includes identification of the potential environmental impacts associated with project 
activities.   
 
Based on the results of the EA, the project EMP identifies the key potential adverse 
environmental impacts of proposed subprojects and proposes specific measures to 
mitigate such impacts. Specifically, the EMP includes screening criteria to ensure that 
project infrastructure works are only constructed with existing agricultural areas, and do 
not affect natural habitats. Likewise, the EMP includes “chance find” procedures to be 
applied in the unlikely event that project worksaffect culturally significant resources.  
The EMP also includes a Pest Management Plan (PMP) outlining the project’s approach 
to encouraging the use of IPM in subprojects. The PMP includes procedures to identify 
subprojects with potential pest management issues during the approval process so that 
those subprojects will be targeted for pesticide-related technical assistance and 
monitoring. The PMP also sets forth procedures for promotion of best agricultural 
practices, requires provision of safety equipment and training in pesticide management, 
and lays out requirements for pesticide procurement with project and counterpart funds. 
Specifically, project funds cannot be used for Category Ia, Ib or II chemicals.  
 
The environmental impact review, prevention, and mitigation measures recommended 
by the EMP and PMP have been incorporated into the criteria and procedures of the 
Operational Manual. Implementation of the EMP is the project unit’s responsibility. 
 
Measures to ensure consistency with the Pest Management (OP 4.09), Natural Habitats 
(OP/BP 4.04), Cultural Property (OPN 11.03), Safety of Dams (OP/BO 4.37) and 
Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10) policies have been included in project design.   
 
Pest management (OP 4.09).  The project will support the intensification of existing 
low-technology agriculture systems through (a) the rehabilitation and modernization of 
existing public and community irrigation infrastructure and (b) agriculture technification 
Page  6
through the improvement of on-farm irrigation and agricultural practices, including the 
use of agro-chemicals.  As mentioned, a pest management plan (PMP) was developed by 
the borrower to minimize potential adverse impacts of agriculture intensification on 
human health and the environment and to advance ecologically based integrated pest 
management (IPM), as farmers tend to use an excessive amount of pesticides, notably in 
the coastal area.  The activities foreseen in the PMP, essentially screening, farmers 
training and monitoring, are being carried out as part of the component C. 
 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP4.04).  This policy is triggered by components A and B. The 
Project area is most certainly not located in protected areas. However, it is important to 
maintain (or improve) the current natural condition of aquatic habitats/ecosystems 
(including minimum in stream flows) which are the source of irrigation water, or the 
recipients of water discharged from irrigated areas.  The EMP includes specific site 
screening procedures to exclude from project financing any subproject which could lead 
to significant degradation or loss of any critical natural habitats. The operational rules for 
components A and B reflect the recommendations of the EMP. 
 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03).  This policy is triggered by components A and B. The 
EMP includes specific site screening procedures to minimize the possibility of 
conducting works in areas known to support culturally significant patrimony.  The EMP 
also includes “Chance Find” procedures to be followed in the unlikely event that project 
activities lead to the discovery of culturally significant materials during construction.  
The operational rules for components A and B reflect the recommendations of the EMP. 
 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37).  This policy is triggered by components A and B 
because: (a) some of the irrigated areas that will be improved may depend on dams for 
their water supply and (b) some sub-projects may include the construction or 
rehabilitation of small dams. For new small dams, the EMP incorporates generic dam 
safety measures designed by qualified engineers; for existing dams, provisions for 
conducting dam safety reviews by independent dam safety specialists have been included.  
 
Indigenous People (OP 4.10).  This policy is triggered because the project will have a 
direct impact on indigenous people whose concentration is high in the Sierra. The 
Borrower carried out social assessment and developed Indigenous People Plan for each of 
the three valleys in the Sierra.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Key stakeholders include small irrigation farmers, their water users associations and their 
families, primarily in the Coastal area and, to a lesser extent, in the Sierra territory.  It is 
estimated that about 47 WUOs (or 32,000 households) would benefit from the 
rehabilitation and modernization of public or community irrigation infrastructure, of 
which 44 WUOs (30,500 families) in the coastal area.   
 
During project preparation, there has been ample consultation and stakeholder analysis 
which included discussions regarding the potential environmental and social impacts and 
benefits associated with the proposed project.  With regard to the Safeguard 4.10 which 
Page  7
was triggered at the time of the amendment (expansion to the Sierra area), the project 
team has organized three consultation meetings with the local authorities, leaders and 
representatives of the local civil society organization in the project areas: the valleys of 
Colca, Mantaro and Cajamarca.  During the consultation meetings, the project team has 
validated the social assessments and IPPs.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 N/A 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
04/25/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
04/24/2007 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
05/01/2007 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 N/A 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
04/25/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
04/24/2007 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
05/17/2007 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 N/A 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
04/25/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
04/24/2007 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
05/01/2007 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Page  8
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.04 - Natural Habitats 
 
Would the project result in any significant conversion or degradation of 
critical natural habitats? 
No 
If the project would result in significant conversion or degradation of other 
(non-critical) natural habitats, does the project include mitigation measures 
acceptable to the Bank? 
N/A 
OP 4.09 - Pest Management 
 
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues? 
Yes 
Is a separate PMP required? 
Yes 
If yes, has the PMP been reviewed and approved by a safeguards specialist or 
SM?  Are PMP requirements included in project design?  If yes, does the 
project team include a Pest Management Specialist? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.11 - Physical Cultural Resources 
 
Does the EA include adequate measures related to cultural property? 
Yes 
Does the credit/loan incorporate mechanisms to mitigate the potential 
adverse impacts on cultural property? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.10 - Indigenous Peoples 
 
Has a separate Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework (as 
appropriate) been prepared in consultation with affected Indigenous Peoples? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been reviewed 
and approved by the Regional Social Development Unit or Sector Manager? 
N/A 
OP/BP 4.37 - Safety of Dams 
 
Have dam safety plans been prepared? 
N/A 
Have the TORs as well as composition for the independent Panel of Experts 
(POE) been reviewed and approved by the Bank? 
N/A 
Has an Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP) been prepared and arrangements 
been made for public awareness and training? 
N/A 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
Yes 
Page  9
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Marie-Laure Lajaunie 
 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Ann Jeannette Glauber 
 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Maria Elizabeth Dasso 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Reidar Kvam 
 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Douglas C. Olson 
 
Comments:   
