                                      Documentof
                                  The World Bank

                          FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                   ReportNo: 32353-PE




                      SUPPLEMENTAL LOANDOCUMENT

    INTERNATIONALBANK FORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT


           PROPOSEDSUPPLEMENTAL LOANOFUS$10.26MILLION

                                        TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OFPERU

                                          FOR

                THE PERUIRRIGATION SUBSECTORPROJECT

                                     April 28,2005




Agriculture andRuralDevelopmentDepartment
LatinAmericaand CaribbeanRegion
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performanceof their official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosedwithout
World Bank authorization.

                               Currency Equivalents
                   (Exchange RateEffective as of April 1, 2005)
                        Currency Unit = Nuevos Soles (So
                                 US$l.OO = S/ 3.25

                              Government FiscalYear
                              January 1-December 31

                               Weights andMeasures
                                  Metric System

                            Abbreviations and Acronyms



ATDR     Administracidn Tkcnica del Distrito de Riego
         (Irrigation District Technical Administration)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
m        Financial Management
FMR      Financial Monitoring Report
FRR      Financial Rate of Return
GOP      Government of Peru
ICR      ImplementationCompletion Report
INCAGRO  Innovacidny Competitividad para el A g o Peruano
         (Agricultural Researchand ExtensionProject)
INIA     InstitutoNacional de Investigacidny ExtensidnAgraria
         (National Institute of Agricultural Researchand Extension)
INRENA   Instituto Nacional de RecursosNacionales
         (National Institute of Natural Resources)
IRH      Intendencia de RecursosHidricos (Water ResourcesBureau) of INRENA
ISDS     Integrated Safeguard DataSheet
IWRM     Integrated Water ResourcesManagement
JBIC     Japan Bank for InternationalCooperation
JU       Junta de Usuarios (Users Committee)
MINAG    Ministerio de Agricultura (Ministry of Agriculture)
MEF      Ministerio de Econom'a y Finanzas (Ministry of Economy and Finance)
MM       Mitigation Measures
OED      Operations Evaluation Department
NGO      Nongovernmental Organizations
O&M      Operation and Maintenance
PMP      Pest Management Plan
PSI      Proyecto Subsectorial de Irrigacidn (Irrigation Subsector Project)
PSI-ED   Executive Director of PSI
uc-PSI   Unidad de Coordinacidn del Proyecto Subsectorial de Irrigacidn
         (Irrigation SubsectorProject Coordination Unit)

                                                          FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




     SIAF      Sistema Integralde Administracidn Financiera
               (Integrated FinancialAdministration System)
     SAC       Sistema Administrativo Contable
               (Administrative Accounting System)
     SNIP      Sistema Nacional de InversidnPciblica
               (National Public Investment System)
     SOE
     wuo       Statementof Expenditures
               Water Users Organization




                              Vice President:        Pamela Cox
                            Country Director:      Marcelo Giugale
                             Sector Director:       John Redwood
                              Team Leader:           Abel Mejia

           I                                                              I




                                               3




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise'disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                            Republicof Peru

                           Supplemental Loan
               for the Irrigation Subsector Project              -P   S I
                       Loan and Project Summary


Borrower:                 Republic o f Peru

Implementing Agency:      Ministry o f Agriculture through UC-PSI

Description:              The additional financing partially compensates for the
                          US$30million, reallocated from the original loan for
                          emergency rehabilitation o f irrigation infrastructure,
                          damaged by the 1998ElNiiio. It aims at completing and
                          consolidatingtargets and achievements of the original PSI
                          Project. It i s expected to benefit some 160,000 farmer
                          families and 190,000 additional water rights will be
                          formalized.

Amount:                   US$10.26million

Terms:                    Fixed Spread Loan (FSL), U S Dollars nominatedpayable
                          in 14years, including 8 years of grace, with commitment-
                          linkedrepayment schedule and level payments, at the
                           standard variable interest rate for U S Dollar FSLs.

Front EndFee:             0.5% on the principal amount, capitalized.

FinancingPlan:            IBRD              US$10.26million
                           Government       US$6.68 million
                          Beneficiaries US$5.08 million
                          Total             US$22.02 million

Staff Appraisal Report:    13542-PE-Irrigation Subsector Project, 1996

Project IDNumber:         P008037P094152




                                           4

                            REPUBLICOF PERU
                   PROPOSEDSUPPLEMENTALLOAN
                            TABLE OF CONTENTS

 I. Country/SectorBackground
 11.      Justification for Supplemental IBRDFinancing (OP 13.20)
 111.
 Iv.      Project Objectives
          Project Description
 V.       Project Implementation
 VI.      Project Sustainability
 VII.     Poverty Category
 VIII.
 Ix.      Environmental and Social Aspects
          Participatory Approach
 X.       Project Benefits
 XI.      Risks
 XII.     Recommendation


SCHEDULES
 Schedule A       Withdrawals of Loan Proceeds
 Schedule B       Estimated Costs and Revised Financing Plan
 Schedule C       Summaryof ProposedProcurement Arrangements
 Schedule D       Timetable of Key Processing Events
 Schedule E       Peru at a Glace
 Schedule F       Status of Bank Group Operations
 Schedule G       Statement of IFC's Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
 Schedule H       Monitoring Indicators
 Schedule I Maps




                                      5

1.      Isubmitforyourapprovalthefollowingmemorandumandrecommendationona
proposed Supplemental Loan (SL) to the Republic of Peru, for US$10.26 million, to be
added to the Irrigation Subsector Project-PSI (Loan 4076-PE). The S L would finance the
shortfall created by cost overruns due to emergency rehabilitation of irrigation
infrastructure damaged by the 1998 El Nifio. The additional funds would be used to
enhance and consolidate achievements made under the original Project and meet original
targets. The loan would be under Fixed Spread Loan (FSL) terms, with eight years of
grace and a total maturity of 14 years.

I. Country/Sector Background

2.      Peru's 27 million people inhabit an area of 129 million hectares, about 10percent
of which cover the coastal area (Costa) where the Project i s located. The rest are divided
between the mountainous Sierra (30 percent) and the Amazon watershed (Selva),
composed of the eastern plateaus of the Andes (Ceja de Selva) and the Amazon jungle
(Selva Baja). More than half of the population lives below the national poverty line, and
more than 60 percent of those living in the coastal rural areas (project areas) are
considered poor.

3.      Some 53 rivers, flowing west from the Andes to the coast, supply the bulk of the
water used for irrigation in the costal area. O f these rivers, more than half carry only
seasonal flow. Only about 30 percent are perennial. The rest, depending on annual
precipitation, are semiperennial or have intermittent flows. Hence, year-round irrigation
water supply for about 40 percent of the irrigated areas i s unreliable.

4.      Irrigated agriculture accounts for about two-thirds of agricultural output. Total
irrigated areas cover about 1.7 million hectares (ha). About 1.0 million ha with irrigation
infrastructure in place (58 percent) are located in the dry coastal areas. About 900,000 ha
are controlled by 64 Water User Organizations (WUOs), comprising about 300,000 water
users. About 700,000 to 800,000 ha are actually cultivated, depending on annual
precipitation. O f these, about 50 percent receive satisfactory water supply. For the other
half, supplies vary from unsatisfactory to acceptable, subject to annual precipitation.
Hence, an additional 200,000 to 300,000 ha are potentially irrigable with improved
infrastructure and a more efficient use o f the present water resources.

5.      Management of the irrigation schemes was transferred to the WUOs in 1989,
without a program to strengthen WUOs. Untilthe mid-1990s and before implementation
of the PSI Project, most of the irrigation infrastructure was old and needed extensive
rehabilitation, resulting in largely inefficient water use. The main causes were (i)  rapid
proliferation of many large, uneconomical irrigation schemes since the early 1960s, (ii)
inefficient WUOs, and (iii)even less efficient cost recovery for operation and
maintenance (O&M).

6.      Since June 1997, the World Bank has been financing the original PSI with a cost
of US$172 million and a Bank loan of US$85 million. The Project's objectives were to



                                              6

develop the WUOs' capacity for decentralized management of irrigation systems, to
reduce the role of the public sector in irrigation, and to ensure recovery of O&M and
partial investment costs.

7.       The PSI was closed on June 30, 2004 and was rated by the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) and Operations Evaluation Department (OED) as satisfactory
in relation to objectives achievement and component outcomes. However, targets have
been only partially accomplished, due to: (i)  the reallocation of about US$30 million of
the loan for emergency rehabilitation of primary irrigation infrastructure damaged by El
Nifio in 1998; and (ii)the unavailability o f the originally planned Japan Bank for
International Cooperation (JBIC) loan of US$60 million. As a consequence, the Project
had only 72 percent of the initially foreseen funds available. Hence, the shortfall of funds
left parts o f the objectives incomplete, Le., WUOs require further support to strengthen
their capacities, infrastructure rehabilitation needs to be consolidated, and irrigation
technification extended and related cropping practices improved with ongoing training. In
its letter of August 10, 2004, the Government asked the Bank for additional financing to
help close the gap.

11.      Justificationfor SupplementalFinancing(OP 13.20)

8.       The proposed "Supplemental Financing" operation of US$10.26 million, to be
implemented over a two-and-a-half-year period, would meet all conditions of OP 13.20
for "Supplemental Financing," and i s justified as follows:

i)CostoverrunduetoexceptionalcircumstancesbeyondtheBorrower'scontrol:In1998
the Bank and the Government of Peru (GOP) agreed to reallocate some US$30 million in
loan funds (US$36 million total cost) for rehabilitation of primary and secondary
irrigation infrastructure destroyed or damaged by El Nifio in that year (Amendment to
Loan and Project Agreements, June 19, 1998).

ii)Theloanisbeingimplementedincompliancewithcovenants: Theoriginalloan(Ln.
4076-PE - US$85 million) was closed on June 30, 2004. The Loan Agreement was
amended for the reallocation of funds to ElNifio emergency works. It was twice extended
for a total of two years. Total disbursements reached 99.6 percent at loan closing. All
covenants were adhered to. The ICR concluded and OED confirmed that project
implementation was satisfactory, although the cost overrun, due to emergency
reallocation of funds, didnot allow the Project to fully attain its development objectives.

iii)ItisimpossibletoreducethescopeoftheProjecttofittheavailableresourceswithout
significantly impairing the Pro-iect's economic viabilitv or capacitv to achieve its
objectives: Although the Project was satisfactorily completed, it left a sizable shortfall to
complete the Project's key objectives o f (i) achieving financial autonomy of (all) WUOs,
and (ii)completing and consolidating the rehabilitation o f existing irrigation
infrastructure. Under the original PSI, about 50 percent of the 64 WUOs have reached
full technical and financial autonomy. Under the proposed supplemental operation, about
half of the remaining WUOs would be expected to reach full autonomy. The others



                                              7

would be trained to be well on the way to autonomy at the end of the two-and-a-half-year
implementation period. With intense training to all WUOs andfarmers, the Project would
gain significantly interms of overall sustainability.

iv) The GOP is unable to finance the additional costs and obtain additional funds from
other lenders at reasonable terms or in a reasonable period of time: The Borrower does
not have national budgetary resources available to finance the shortfall. The GOP did
apply for a loan from JBIC (about US$ 56 million equivalent), to be negotiated shortly.
But even if negotiations are successfully completed, JBIC funds will not be available
before the second half of 2006. At this moment, no other alternative sources of financing  -
are available to Peru on reasonable terms and in reasonable time for this particular sector.

v) The time is too short to process a further freestanding Bank loan: From July 1through
the end o f December 2004, the Borrower sustained PSIoperations at a reduced pace from
its own agricultural budgetary resources. No such resources are available for 2005.
Processing even a repeater loan would require more time than the Borrower can afford,
without subjecting the coastal irrigation sector to a significant and potentially risky
resource gap to continue training WUOs toward achieving self-sufficiency and to
consolidate rehabilitation works to guarantee sustainability.

vi) The GOP i s committed to the Project, and the implementing agencies have
demonstrated competence in carrying it out: The GOP's high priority for this operation
has most recently been expressed in letters from the Minister of Economy and Finance-
MEF (August 10, 2004) and the Minister of Agriculture-MINAG (September 10, 2004).
Furthermore, the GOP also expresses its high priority for irrigation and improved water
management to enhance economic growth through agriculture in its April 2003 Irrigation
Strategy, and its "Carta Verde," published in January 2004. The Irrigation Subsector
Project's Coordinating Unit (UC-PSI), responsible for the successful implementation of
the original Project and highly committed to its development goals, would also
implement most of the proposed operation.

9.      Special Condition-economic justification: The proposed operation i s expected to
further enhance the economic returns of coastal irrigation, Le., the original Project
achieved an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 24.1 percent and a Financial Rate of
Return (FRR) of 23 percent. In concrete terms, the original PSI benefited 125,200
families (250 percent of the original SAR target, 41 percent of families on the Costa) and
443,000 ha (222 percent o f the appraisal target, about 42 percent o f the agricultural land
on the Costa). Most important, as WUOs gain financial and technical autonomy, no
national resources will be needed to operate and maintain irrigation infrastructure.

10.    This operation would fully qualify under the proposed new Policy of "Additional
Financing," expected to be approved by the Board on May 17, 2005. However, in order
not to delay the additional funding for the Project's continuity, the Project Team opted
for "Supplemental Financing," requiring retroactive opening of the original loan.




                                              8

11.     While BP 13.20 on Supplemental Financing stipulates that a supplemental loan
may be granted under the same terms and conditions of the original, the country team
negotiated a new loan agreement because the original loan had already been closed for
nearly a year and the remaining amounts were canceled. This waiver to BP13.20 has
been cleared by the Legal and Loan departments.

111.    Project Development Objectives

12.     The Project's objective i s to contribute to increasing the production and
productivity of irrigated agriculture on Peru's Coast in order to improve farmers' well-
being and to contribute to poverty alleviation. To achieve this objective, the Project will
promote the development of the WUOs' financial and management capacity,
improvements inthe use of water resources, and increases in soil use efficiency.

13.     Consistencv with Government Policy. The proposed Project would help meet
these objectives which are in line with the National Irrigation Policy and Strategy, as
outlined inpara. 8 (vi) above. Inaddition, it would make it possible to continue the policy
discussions on irrigation effectiveness that were successfully carried out through
implementationof the original PSIProject, as well as to support the Government's efforts
to continue with its public investment program in the irrigation sector. The Government
i s also keen to continue with the Bank's assistance in implementing the country's
Irrigation Strategy, the well advanced new Water Law, and the policy framework related
to water resources management.

14.     Relevance to the Country Assistance Strateav (CAS) (August 19, 2004, Report
#24205-PE). The proposed Project would contribute to developing the CAS'Sstrategic
elements. Institutional reforms would be reinforced by WUO strengthening as a means
to decentralize irrigation management and support services provided b y MINAG. The
Project would have a direct impact on the productive lives of the poor, as more than 70
percent of potential beneficiaries are small farmers (with fewer than 3 ha). Moreover,
infrastructure rehabilitation and users' collective actions would reduce environmental
damages caused b y inadequate irrigation and lack of proper drainage. Finally,
partnerships with civil society would be enhanced through the involvement of private
service providers (training, extension, marketing),       as well as beneficiaryNVU0
participation in the selection, design, financing, and implementation of irrigation works.
Table 1 summarizes the areas o f Peru's Development Framework matrix (CAS,
paragraph 74) to which the Project i s expected to contribute.




                                             9

 Development    Growth &                 Equity                           Institutionality
 Challenges     Competitiveness         Access to Education, Health, and  The State at the Service of the People
                Decent and productive    Culture




        Little or  no            Some Focus              Significant Focus
        Focus


IV.      Project Description

15.      The Supplemental Financing would support the key components of the original
Project which are expected to have a major incremental impact. In addition, it would help
formalize water rights, a major move toward adoption of the Water Law, an advanced
version of which i s currently under discussion by a special Congressional Committee.
The following are the proposed components:

i)ComponentA. RehabilitationandImprovementofIrrigationSystems(US$5.26
million). The component will finance the design, implementation, and supervision of
civil works for the rehabilitation and improvement of public irrigation systems in 46
coastal WUOs, not included in the JBIC Project. Each subproject will not exceed
US$250,000 and will be selected by a prioritization procedure which includes criteria
related to the level of water tariff and the percentage of share in the cost. The works will
be executed either by WUOs directly (force account) or by the Project. The beneficiaries
will finance the engineering studies and will participate in the civil work cost with a
minimum of 30 percent (an approximate total contribution of 35 percent) the first year;
after this period, the share percentage will be increased to a minimum of 40 percent,
including the cost of the engineering study. To be eligible for this component, WUOs
must achieve the eligibility conditions' established by the original Project.

ii)Component B. Incentive Program for Irrigation Technology Improvement
(US$6.63 million). This component will finance, through incentives, the technification of
irrigation for groups of farmers with at least six members and an area of at least 24 ha.
The component will finance gravity and pressurized systems, including collective and on-
farm investments. Farmers will be selected by competition for the allocation of
incentives. Proposals will be initiated by groups of beneficiaries with a minimum
contribution of 45 percent for pressurized irrigation and 30 percent for improved gravity
systems. The evaluation will weigh the technical, financial, and business plan

'To have (i)technical manager; (ii) a realistic budget, reflected in water tariffs, allowing efficient O&M;
              a
    (iii) tariffadopted;and(iv)atleast75%ofsuchtariffpaidinadvance.
        water



                                                      10

components of the proposals in such a way as not to favor better-off farmers and
promoting integration into productive chains (cadenas productivas). Each subproject
shall not exceed US$250,000 and no farmer with over 30 ha can participate. Project
subsidies per land owner shall not exceed US$12,000 for pressurized and US$6,000 for
gravity systems2, after beneficiary contributions.

iii)Component C. InstitutionalStrengtheningand CapacityBuilding (US$3.97
million).The component will consist of two subcomponents. Itis proposed that these two
subcomponents be executed under direct administration by the UC-PSI. This unit
acquired broad experience in this type of execution during the implementation of the
original Project. Moreover, this procedure would accelerate implementation by local
experts who have been previously trained and who understand the Project and especially
the cultures and customs of the areas in which they would work.

a) Subcomponent C.1. Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building;of WUOs. The
subcomponent's objective i s to help WUOs and Irrigation Committees achieve self-
sufficiency in technical, financial, and administrative aspects, thus assuring their
sustainability and the quality of their management. The Project will operate in all WUOs
of the Coast, albeit with different degrees of intensity. For those WUOs that have already
achieved eligibility, an action program will be designed, aimed at consolidating what has
already been achieved and achieving their sustainability, after which the training
provided by the Project would be considered concluded. In any case, future training
would be assumed by the WUOs themselves through their training unit, the financing of
which should be considered in their annual budget and duly required b y the Irrigation
District's Technical Administration (ATDR) in accordance with their legal duties. In
those WUOs that are likely to reach eligibility during project execution, the ATDR will
carry out intensive strengthening, especially from the beginning, so that once they reach
eligibility they can participate in the benefits o f Components A and B. Finally, those
WUOs that are most behind will receive specific strengthening adapted to their
circumstances. In each case, the contents o f training programs will be prepared in
conjunction with the Water Resources Bureau (IRH) which will also supervise them, and
be coordinated with the Water RightsFormalization Program in Component D.

Strengthening will consist of training on O&M cost recovery, rehabilitation and
maintenance of irrigation infrastructure, water distribution especially in irrigation blocks
to be implemented by IRHof the National Institute of Natural Resources (INRENA), as
well as administration and management. This training will be carried out under the direct
administration of the UC-PSI, for which the necessary local consultants will be hired.
This formula was successfully utilizedby the original Project. This subcomponent will be
fully financedby the Project.

b) Subcomponent C.2. Capacity Building in Technification of Irrigation. The
subcomponent will carry out two types of activities:




 Average cost: US$2,700/ha pressurizedirrigation; US$BOO/ha for gravity systems.


                                                  11

- Actions prior to technification: dissemination; raising awareness; promoting the
formation of groups; assistance in the preparation of the project profile and business plan;
and training for agribusiness operators. These activities will be fully financed by the
Project.
- Actions subsequent to the carrying out of technification works: The Project will
finance extension activities aimed at other farmers to achieve a multiplying effect,
promoting the adoption of technified irrigation. The content of these extension activities
will include irrigation technology and associated crop practices. The series of activities
listed below will not be financed per se b y the Project but will be promoted by
consultants financed by the Project. The activities to be promoted are:


    0    Technical assistance in the O&M of the irrigation system and in managing
         pesticides and other agrochemicals, under the responsibility of the system
         provider.
    0    Provision of farmer-financed technical assistance in the implementation of his
         business plan.
    0    The incorporation of groups in other extension and technical assistance programs:
         Agricultural Research and Extension Project (INCAGRO), National Institute of
         Agricultural   Research     and   Extension      (INIA),    Agrarian     Agencies,
         Nongovernmental Organizations (NGOs), and other private institutions.

iv) Component D. Support to Water Resources Management (US$4.78 million). The
component will consist of three subcomponents that will be executed b y IRH:

a) Subcomponent D.1. Formalization of Water Rights. The subcomponent will finance
the formalization of 190,000 individual water rights with the objective of ensuring that
beneficiaries have legal security on the use of irrigation and promoting private
investments in irrigation. In addition, it will organize users in irrigation blocks to
facilitate the management of these rights. The resources of the subcomponent will be
allocated to the procurement of goods (satellite images, computers, etc.) and services
(consultancies and vehicle rental).

b) Subcomponent D.2. Implementation of the Water Rights Registry System. The
subcomponent will finance the implementation, in IRH,of an administrative registry that
allows water rights (licenses, permits, and authorizations) to be properly administered. A
central unit will be implemented to store all geo-referenced data in a data storage
warehouse. The first phase (on the Coast) of the National Water Rights Administrative
Registry System will also be implemented.

c) Subcomponent D.3. Support to the Implementation of the Water Resources Strategy.
This subcomponent will finance activities needed for the diagnosis and evaluation of
water issues in all coastal regions, aimed at: (i) developing specific and tested solutions
for conflict resolution; (ii)
                            developing a proposal for institutional arrangements for water
resources management on a watershed basis and its relationship to regional and local
institutions; and (iii)supporting further development of the Water Law, currently being
discussed in Congress.



                                            12

v) Component E. Project Coordination and Monitoring (US$1.38 million). Project
administration and monitoring will be carried out by UC-PSI in MINAG, which will
coordinate with IRH,responsible for Component D and parts o f Component C. UC-PSI'S
organic structure will be adapted to the needs of the Project and those financed by JBIC,
considerably decreasing the level of operating costs which should not exceed 8 percent of
the Project's total cost. The component will include studies for the project baseline and
the required audits.




                                            13

Table 2. ProjectCost Estimates(US$ million)




* Tesoro
** Intendenciade
        P6blico(PublicTreasury)
                 Recursos Hidricos (IRH) funds from non-agriculturalwater (Le., mining, domestic raw water, and
other non-agriculturalwater tariffs).

V.       Project Implementation

16.      The Project will be executed over a two-and-a-half-year period by the existing
and experienced UC-PSI for Components A, B, parts of C and E, and by IRH for
Component D and parts of Component C. There will be an Institutional Cooperation
Agreement between PSI and IRHfor the execution of Component D and the supervision
of subcomponent C1. The total project cost i s estimated at US$22.02 million, with a
proposed Bank loan of US$10.26 million (Table 2, above).

17.      PSI Board of Directors. A Board of Directors for PSI would be established,
headed by the Minister of Agriculture, with representatives from MEF, IRH,WUOs, the
agro export sector, the academic sector, and regional governments. The Executive
Director of PSI (PSI-ED) will act as non-voting Secretary. The Board's functions will
include: (i)   defining activities and responsibilities of the PSI-ED and conduct hisher
evaluation; (ii)    proposing the designation o f the PSI-ED; (iii)             approving the PSI'S annual
operating plan; (iv) receiving progress reports and follow-up decisions, as necessary; (v)
ordering specific analyses and studies; and (vi) receiving, reviewing, and commenting on
annual audit reports.

18.      Indicators. The Project will be regularly monitored according to a set of
indicators, including number of families benefited, increase in beneficiary household
income, decrease in public participation in irrigation public works, and increase in water
availability to farmers. For details see Schedule H.

19.      Financial Management. During project preparation (a) an on-site financial
management (FM)assessment has been accomplished; (b) guidance for the flow of funds,
FMR preparation, FM issues for the inter-institutional agreement between IHR-IRENA



                                                      14

and PSI, as well as some recommendations for FMimprovement have been provided; (c)
World Bank and MEF (SNIP) project reporting requirements (FMRs) have been
coordinated; and (d) agreements on the semi-annual FMR format and FMobligations and
on due collaboration of PSI and IRHhave been reached. Overall, the structure of the UC-
PSIi s adequate for the Project's FM.The administrative-financial staff has a combination
of suitable experience and qualifications, in accordance with the Bank's requirements.
The budget execution process i s carried out by different units, thus avoiding conflict of
interests. Ex ante control ensures a certain level of review and approval of project
expenses. The Institutional Control Agency of MINAG and the Office o f the Comptroller
General ensure ex post internal control. The Project's external auditors have issued
unqualified opinions on the Project's financial statements and internal control for 2004,
including the grace period that closed the first phase of the Project; loan funds have been
used exclusively for project purposes.

20.     Nevertheless, some elements could effect the Project's execution and cause
delays: (a) FM, accounting, and treasury teams would be limited (weak) after project
effectiveness; (b) the use of two different systems for accounting (the national Integrated
Financial Administration System (SIAF) and the internal Administrative Accounting
System (SAC)) and Excel for reporting increases the team's workload; (c) IRH has no
previous experience with Bank projects and lacks experienced staff in procurement
processes; and (d) during the first phase of the Project, ineligible expenditures have
repeatedly been made and have been rejected b y the Bank.

21.     The following stepdmitigation measures have been agreed upon:

i)UC-PSIwill: (a) open the Special Account to receive loan funds; (b)carry out
accounting and reporting according to Bank processes; (e) help IRH with procurement
processes; (d) review procurement documents from IRH and send them to the Bank; (e)
open the necessary bank accounts to receive counterpart funds from the Peruvian
Treasury and make all necessary transfers to IRH in a timely manner; (f) require the
external audit process (two annual audits will be required, since the life of the Project i s
two years; for a single audit the maximum period accepted by the Bank i s 18 months); (g)
strengthen its archiving system and make physical space available in order to receive and
adequately archive all new and upcoming documentation; and (h) handle the preparation
of FMRs as agreed; and

ii)IRHwill:(a)openanoperatingaccounttoreceivetransfersfromtheSpecialAccount
(handled by PSI); b) send PSI detailed budgets in a timely manner, in accordance with
FMR requirements, and all required information for FMR preparation; and (c) send all
original documentation and records to PSI for accounting and account consolidation and
keep copies o f all said documents and records properly archived.

22.     The FM recommendations for this supplemental Project are the following: (a) to
reinforce (by hiring additional staff) PSI'SFM, accounting, and treasury teams, in order
to efficiently carry out their tasks; further team strengthening will be necessary after the
JBIC loan becomes effective; (b) to use the country's systems, especially the national



                                               15

information system (SIAF), for managing key functions of accounting, budgeting,
disbursement, and reporting functions; and (c) to reinforce its internal control in order to
limit workloads and avoiddelays due to ineligible expenditures.

23.     Procurement. A detailed list of hiringactivities proposed by the PSI was reviewed
for each component, and agreement was reached on the modalities for procurement of
works, goods, and consulting services to be used for project implementation with funds
from the supplemental loan. The contents were found to be acceptable and will serve as
the basis for preparing the overall procurement plan that should be sent to the Bank prior
to negotiations. The sample Terms of Reference for the selection and hiring of
consultants and specialists required in the field and in significant numbers for tasks
related to coordination, and training and technical assistance for farmers and users
committees related to the implementation of Components C and D, will be submitted
together with the procurement plan, for the Bank's review and no objection.

24.     Based on the successful experience and achievements of the UC-PSIin the Direct
Administration of training programs aimed at strengthening organizations of irrigation
water users (Users Committees-JU) and the introduction of technological innovations in
irrigation and agricultural crops through the hiring of individual consultants in the
program's development zones, selected through competitive procedures, the UC-PSI will
use of the same modality for the implementation of similar programs in the Project's
supplementary phase. The UC-PSIwill carry out direct supervision and monitoring of the
performance o f consultants assigned to training efforts.

                             Table3. DisbursementCategories

         Category/Typeof Expenditure      Total       LBRD Percentage      of
                                          Financing          Expenditures to
                                          (US$ million)      be Financed
         Works                                         2.50                24
         Goods                                         1.10                11
         Consulting Services                           4.20                41
         Matching Grants                               1.so                1s
         OperatingCosts                                0.66                  6
         Total                                        10.26                100

25.     Disbursement. The proceeds of the proposed Supplemental Financing would be
disbursed over a two and a half year period and will cover the items indicated in Table 3
above. A Special Account would be opened with Banco de la Nacih, with an authorized
allocation of US$1.0 million. Disbursements would be made on the basis of Statements
of Expenditures (SOE), except those covered by contracts requiring the Bank's prior
review. The allocation of loan proceeds and estimated disbursement schedule are
summarized in Schedule A.

26.     Retroactive Financing. Since the supplemental financing will become part of the
original loan, retroactive financing becomes irrelevant. However, the Bank has agreed
with the Government that funds not exceeding US$1.2 million may be withdrawn with



                                             16

respect to expenditures incurred after January 1, 2005. In addition, Government
counterpart funds to these loan withdrawals will be considered in the Government's
overall contribution to the Project.

27.    PotentialAlternatives Considered
i)Incorporating ongoing support to the irrigation sector into an integrated water
resources management (IWRM) operation: While this would be a viable option, and the
GOP has requested Bank support for IWRM, such a Bank intervention would require
more time to prepare and, notably, a larger loan for which the Government has not
allocated "fiscal space" (Peru-IMF Indebtedness Agreement) in its 2005 budget year
(CY). However, a small budget to support the implementation o f the Water Resources
Strategy i s included in the proposed Irrigation Project as subcomponent D.3.

ii)Linear extensionof original PSIcomponents:thiswasrejectedbecausethis small
intervention is supporting the activities that most need consolidation for sustainability
(support to the WUOs) and potentially have the greatest economic impact (technification
of irrigation for higher crop yields and higher-value crops, as well as ongoing
rehabilitation of existing irrigation infrastructure). In addition, the Government has asked
the Bank to support its all-out effort to register and formalize water rights, a first step
toward implementing the new Water Law (currently under discussion in Congress),
which the Bank has a longhistory of supporting inPeru.

VI.     Project Sustainability

28.     Two basic issues are linked to project sustainability: financial autonomy (full
recovery of O&M costs) and technical autonomy (necessary technical know-how to
adequately carry out O&M and rehabilitation works) of WUOs, as well as improved
productivity and competitiveness of the agricultural sector.

29.     Autonomy of WUOs. The original Project has made significant progress toward
full autonomy of all 64 WUOs. More than half (33 WUOs) have reached full financial
and technical autonomy, key for the sustainability of the irrigation subsector, particularly
cost recovery for O&M to assure proper maintenance of irrigation infrastructure. Under
the original Project, recovered costs for O&M increased from about US$7.8 million in
1998 to over US$20 million in 2004. Under the proposed Project about half o f the
remaining WUOs are expected to meet full autonomy criteria. The remaining 25 percent
are expected to be well advanced toward autonomy at the end of the project period.

30.    Improved Productivity and Competitiveness. During the original Project, farm
incomes increased on average by 30 percent, and yields between 20 percent and 70
percent. Well functioning infrastructure and technified irrigation would continue to
increase water use efficiency, thereby increasing productivity, allowing diversification to
higher-value crops, and further increasing farm incomes, crop yields, as well as revenues
to the national government. These are incentives for farmers, WUOs, and the
Government to sustain irrigated agriculture, which i s the most competitive of all
agricultural sectors, inlight of recent developments in free trade agreement negotiations.



                                               17

31.     Formalization of Water Riphts. This new component introduced with this
Supplemental Financing operation would formalize 190,000 additional water rights,
thereby further strengthening the farmers' position on their landholdings with regard to
the irrigation investment contributions that they have made in the past and are likely to
make in the future. Hence, it would provide a further incentive to maintain irrigation
infrastructure and sustain productivity at the highest possible levels.

VII.    Poverty Category

32.     Although this Project i s not a poverty alleviation operation per se, more than two-
thirds of the farmers expected to benefit from the Project have landholdings of fewer than
3 ha and are considered poor. Under the original Project, average household incomes
have increased by 30 percent, and farm profitability has risen b y 45 percent. The Project
has added approximately 1.7 million man-days of new employment, equivalent to about
6,400 newjobs.

33.     In the new operation some of the components will benefit all farmers along the
Coast, of whom an estimated 70 percent are poor. In the case of on-farm benefits
(Component B), project eligibility and selection criteria foresee criteria that would
channel the majority of benefits to poor farmers (see para. 15 ii).

VIII. Environmentaland SocialAspects

34.     Environment. The original Project was classified as Category B under the Bank's
environmental guidelines. This proposed new Project i s also proposed as a Cateaorv B
operation. It would essentially continue with the same major components included in the
original Project, i.e., rehabilitation of existing medium- to large-scale irrigation
infrastructure and technificatiodmodernization of irrigation schemes. An Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) will address potential issues of pest management (Safeguard
OP 4.09-Pest Management, triggered by intensified irrigation under Component B),
"chance find" procedures for Cultural Property (OPN 11.03/0P 4.11), as well as
monitoring and environmental guidelines for all infrastructure investments under the
proposed Project. The EMP will be an annex to the Project Operational Manual.

35.     Without rehabilitation the project area may face a range of environmental issues,
such as low irrigation efficiency, high water loss, water logging, and soil salinization, all
of which would be further alleviated through the proposed Supplemental Financing
operation. Technification o f irrigation would generate additional environmental benefits,
as water use would be optimized, the risk of water logging and soil salinization would be
reduced, and some agrochemicals would be used more moderately.

36.     Further environmental benefits would accrue through an IWRM strategy, whose
implementation would have a broad, multidisciplinary dimension and would be supported
by the Project.




                                              18

37.     Safeguards. The Safeguards potentially affected by the Project are Pest
Management (OP. 4.09, BP 4.01) and Cultural Property (OPN 11.03/0P 4.11)-see para.
34 above.

38.     Social impacts of the new operation would be positive. The original Project has
substantially increased crop yields and farm incomes. It also created over 6,000 new jobs.
The Project's new component, Le., helping to formalize water rights, would be an
additional social benefit to farmers, whose livelihoods in the long run are largely subject
to land ownership and dependable water rights.

IX.     Participatory Approach

39.     The proposed operation would build on the experience of the original Project
which was highly participatory in the sense that (i)        WUOs received technical and
financial training, upon which they organized themselves with an autonomous
administration consisting of permanent staff and full representation o f Water
Commissions pertaining to a WUO; they budgeted their O&M costs, calculated, decided
and collected water tariffs in advance and carried out the necessary maintenance and
some rehabilitation works; and (ii) the technification component irrigation farmers
                                     under
were encouraged to participate in a contest whereby the best proposals combining
technical, economic, and commercial viability and highest bids of own investments were
selected. In the first rounds of contests, farmers' investment contributions averaged 30
percent, steadily increasing to about 45 percent in the last round of contests. The new
Project would pursue similar participatory approaches.

X.      Project Benefits

40.     The proposed Supplemental Financing would also build on the achievements
reached by the original Project. The following are expected achievements:

i)increasefrom33to47eligibleWUOs;
ii)averageO&Mcostrecoveryistoincreasefrom78percentcurrently,to81percent;
iii)thepercentageofbeneficiaryparticipationinrehabilitationcosts(ComponentA)is
expected to increase from an average 17 percent to 40 percent;
iv) in technification, beneficiaries' participation i s expected to increase from an average
of 31percent to 40 percent (gravity) and from 45 percent to 50 percent (pressurized);
v) 160,000 farm families are to benefit from the Project;
vi) farm incomes of project beneficiaries are expected to increase up to 15 percent (this
indicator will be refined according to the findings of the baseline study);
vii) technified irrigation under the Project i s likely to increase from 4,933 ha to about
8,000 ha; and
viii) 190,000 new water rights will be formalized.

For more details, see ScheduleH.




                                              19

41.     Through the rehabilitation works proposed in Component A, the Project i s
expected to affect about 85,300 ha and 32,000 rural households in the coastal area.
Moreover, through the irrigation technification in Component B, the Project i s expected
to directly provide benefits to about 3,000 ha and 700 households. A comprehensive cost-
benefit analysis was carried out in June 2004 for the ICR of the original PSIProject. The
Supplemental Financing would take place in the same region, in some cases, with the
same water user groups which were beneficiaries of the original Project. Thus, the ICR
results were adjusted b y investment categories and amounts to obtain the ERR and FRR
for the Supplemental Financing. The result i s an expected ERR of 24.5 percent and FRR
of 25.1 percent.

42.     In addition, through a special baseline study initiated at the beginning of the
project execution, baseline indicators will be established to compare ex post the project
components' impact, comparing beneficiary groups and agricultural land benefiting from
the Project with non-benefiting control groups. These economic analyses and indicators
will provide benchmark indicators for other irrigation operations in Peru, as well as
elsewhere inthe region.

XI.     Risksand MitigationMeasures

43.     The main Risks and Mitigation Measures (MM)would include:

i)Lackofcountemartfunds:alowprobabilityrisk.         m:The     risk i s limited, because the
annual counterpart funds are already programmed in the MINAGMEF budget, both in
terms of indebtedness and local contributions. Further risk mitigation would require half-
yearly budget adjustment planning among PSI, MINAG, and MEF.

ii)Insufficientbeneficiaryparticipationininfrastructurecofinancing. Theriskis low,
because farmers'heneficiaries' contributions in the PSI Project that closed on June 30,
2004 was impressive.   m:Nevertheless,      the following measures would further reduce
the risk: (a) incorporation of beneficiaries in the process of selecting, designing, and
executing works; (b) carrying out of strong WUO training, institutional strengthening,
and awareness campaigns; and (c) promotion and establishment of links among WUOs,
farmers, private banks, and other lending institutions.

iii)Insufficientfarmerinterestinirrigationtechnification.   m:intensive       awareness and
training campaigns for farmers on improved yields and benefits through technified
irrigation.

iv) Technification may mainly benefit rich farmers.    m:incentive        schemes are being
modified to favor poor farmers, Le., to improve the balance/weight o f the technical and
planning criteria of the technification proposal with that of the proposed financial
contribution of beneficiaries.




                                            20

XII.   Conditionsfor LoanEffectivenessandDisbursements

44.    Effectiveness i s expected no later than October 31, 2005. The following
Conditions o f Effectiveness apply:

i)The Project Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower through a
Ministerial Resolution;
ii)The execution and delivery of the Institutional Cooperation Agreement between
MINAG and INRENAhave beenduly authorized or ratified by all necessaryGovernment
authorities and corporate actions;
iii)TheexecutionanddeliveryoftheAmendmenttotheLoanAgreement (Loan4076-
PE) on behalf of the Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
Government actions; and
iv) The Borrower shall submit to the Bank documentation satisfactory to the Bank to
support that counterpart payments were made for eligible expenditures under the Project,
incurred prior to the date of this Amending Agreement, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to: (a) $700,000 for activities under Components A, C, and E of the Project,
with the proviso that said expenditures must have been incurred: (A) after January 1,
2005 under Component C of the Project; or (B) after April 18,2005 under Components A
and E of the Project; and (b) $900,000 for activities under Component D of the Project,
with the proviso that saidexpenditures must have been incurred after January 1, 2005.

XIII. Recommendation

45.     The proponed Project would be suitable for a Fixed Spread Loan, U S Dollar
denominated, payable in 14years, including 8 years o f grace.




                                            21

                                                              Schedule A
                          Peru
          SupplementaYAdditionalFinancingfor
   IrrigationSubsectorProject      -PSI(Ln.4076-PE)

                        Schedule 1

Withdrawalsof the Proceedsof the SupplementalLoan


                            SupplementalLoan
Category         Amount of the     I% of Expendituresto be

                 Allocated
                 (Expressedin


(1) Civil Works          2,500,000  Up to 65% until June 30,
under PartA of                      2006;
the Project                         Up to 60% thereafter

                                    100%of foreign
(2) Goods                 1,100,000 expendituresand 85% of
                                    local expenditures
                                    100%of foreign
(3) Consultants'          4,160,000 expendituresand 85% of
Servicesand                         local expenditures
Audits

(4) Agricultural
Extension
Services


(5) Goods,
Works, and                1,840,000 70%
Servicesfor
MatchingGrants




                             22

(6) Operating
costs
                      24,000  85% up to US$330,000;
(a) under PartA               75% thereafter
and B of the          636,000
Project;
(b) under Part C
and D of the
Project

(7)Civil works
underother parts
of the Project
                 I           I

(8) Premiumfor              0 Amount due under
InterestRate                  Section2.16 of this
Caps and Collars              Agreement




                       23

                                                      Schedule B

                       Peru
         SupplementaYAdditionalFinancingfor
  Irrigation Subsector Project PSI (Ln. 4076-PE)
                              -

              EstimatedDisbursement
                (BankFY/US$ million)



                  2005           2006         2007
 Annual                 4.0           5.1         1.16
Cumulative              4.0           9.1         10.26




                         24

                                               Schedule C
                    Peru
     SupplementaYAdditional Financing for
IrrigationSubsector Project-PSI(Ln. 4076-PE)

Summary of ProposedProcurement Arrangements

             Procurement Method




                      25

                                                                Schedule D
                                 Peru
                SupplementaYAdditionalFinancingfor
          Irrigation Subsector Project PSI(Ln.4076-PE)
                                      -

                 Timetableof Key ProcessingEvents


1. Time taken to prepare          4 months

2.  Preparedby                    Government with lBRD assistance

3.  Negotiations                  April 18-19,2005

4.  PlannedDate of Effectiveness  October 31,2005

5.  Closing                       June 30,2008




                                  26

                                                                      Latin      Lower-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                   America      middle-
                                                            Peru    & Carib.     income Developmentdiamond`
2003
Population,mid-year(millions)                                 27 1      534                                        Lifeexpectancy
GNIper capita (Atlas method, US$)                           2,140     3,260
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                               58 2    1,741                       1                                  Schedule E



                                                                                   2,6553,9341,480



Average annual growth, 199743

Population(%)                                                  1 5       1 5         0 9
Labor force (%)                                                2 8       2 1         1 2             GNI                                  Gross
                                                                                                     Per                                 primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199743)                                                 capita                            nrollment
Poverty(% ofpopulation belownationalpoverfvline)               49
Urbanpopulation(% of totalpopulation)                          74        77           50
Life expectancyat birth (Years)                                70        71           69                                  1
Infantmortality(per 1,000lrvebirths)                           30        28           32
Child malnutntion(% of childrenunder5)                           7                    11                     Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)             80        86           81
Illiteracy(% ofpopulabon aqe 15+)                              15        11
Gross pnmaryenrollment (% of school-aqepopulation)            121       129
    Male                                                      122       131          113
    Female                                                    121       126          111

                                                                                                    i
KEY ECONOMICRATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                 1983        1993     2002         2003               Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                19 1        34 8     56 5         60 6
Gross domesbc InvestmenVGDP                       24 3        193      18 8
Exportsof goods and serviceslGDP                  197         125      16 5                                             Trade
Gross domesttc savingdGDP                         24 5        154      18 0
Gross nationalsavinqs/GDP                                     129      172                                                 T
Currentaccount balanceIGDP                         -6 8       -6 6      -2 0
InterestpaymentdGDP                                2 4         2 2       2 0                                                          Investment
Total debtiGDP                                    59 3        67 7     49 8
Total debt service/exportS                        34 0        59 4     32.5
Presentvalue of debtiGDP                                               52.7
Presentvalueof debtlexports                                           286 4
                                                                                                                     Indebtedness
                                      1983-93 1993-03        2002      2003      200347
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                      -07       3 4         4 9       3 8         4 4                         Peru
                                                                                                            ~


GDP percapita                            -27        1 6        3 2       2.2          2.8
~xportsof goods and services              1 0       8 4        7 2       5 0          6.8


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                  1983       1993      2002         2003
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                         8.6        8.2       9.5          9.3
lndustly                                          35.2        25.3     26.0          26.5
   Manufacturing                                  30.3        16.2      14.8         14.6
Services                                          40.1        57.3     54.9          54.6

Privateconsumption                                64.3        76.5     71.7          71.O
Generalgovemment consumption                       112         8.0      10.3         10.1
Importsof goods and Services                       19.5       16.3      17.3         17.6


                                               1983-93 199343          2002         2003              Growthof exports and imports (?A)
(average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                         1.4        5.2       6.0          1.5            2o T                                       I
Industry                                            0.3        2.6       6.6          5.4            10
    Manufacturing                                  -0.3        2.6       4.0          2.1
Services                                           -1.5        3.5       4.0          3.1             0


Privateconsumption                                 -0.8        3.0       4.7          3.1            .10

Generalgovemment consumption                       -16         3.8      -0.8          2.9            -20
Gross domestic investment                           1.5        1.o       3.5          4.5
Importsof goods and services                       2.6         3.7       2.3          3.3

                        ~~           ~



Note:2003 data are preliminaryestimates.
* The diamonds show four keyindicators inthe country (inbold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage. If data are missing, the diamondwill
    be incomplete.




                                                                    27

Technical notes
                                           Peru at a glance                                                            9/30/04



POVERTYand SOCIAL                                              kmerica  middle-
                                                         Peru  & Carib. income     Developmentdlamond'
2003
Population,mid-year(millions)                            27.1     534        55                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                      2,140    3,260       80
GNI (Athas method, US$ billions)                         58.2    1,741    3,934

Average annualgrowth, 1997-03
Population(%j                                             1.5      1.5      0.9
Laborforce (%)                                            2.8      2.1      1.2    GNI                                  Gross
                                                                                   per                                 primary
Most recentestimate (latest year available, 1997-03)                               capita                          enrollment
Poverty(% of populationbelow nationalpovertyline)          49
Urban population(% of total population)                    74       77       50
Life expectancyat birth (years)                            70       71       69
Infantmortality (per 1,000live births)                     30       28       32
Child malnutrition(% of children under5)                    7                11          Access to improved water source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)         80       86       81
Illiteracy(% of population age I54                         15       11       10                                   1
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)       121      129      112       -Peru
    Male                                                  122      131      113              Lower-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                121      126      111   -


KEY ECONOMICRATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                 1983    1993     2002              Economlc ratlob*
GDP (US$billions)                                 19.1   34.8     56 5
Gross domesticinvestmenffGDP                      24.3   19.3     18.8
Exportsof goods and servicesiGDP                  19.7   125      16.5     17.7                     Trade
Gross domesticsavinqs/GDP                         24.5   15.4     18.0     18.9
Gross nationalsavinqs/GDP                                12.9     17.2     17.5

Currentaccountbalance/GDP                         -6.8    -6.6     -2.0         "   Domestic
Interestpavments/GDP                               2.4    2.2       2.0     2.'                                    Investment
Total debffGDP                                    59.3   67.7     49 8     49.3     savings

Total debt service/exports                        340    59.4     32.5     23 8
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                          52 7
Presentvalue of debffexports                                     286.4
                                                                                                  Indebtedness
                                      1983-93 1993-03    2002     2003  2003-07
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                      -0.7      3.4    4 9       3 8      4.4        -Peru
GDP per capita                           -2.7      1.6    3.2       2 2      2.8              Lower-middle-incomegroup
Exports of qoods and services             1.0      8.4    7.2


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                  1983   1993     2002     2003
("ofGDP)
Agriculture                                        8.6     8.2      9.5      9.3
Industry                                          35.2   25.3     26.0      26.5
   Manufacturing                                  30.3    16.2     14.8     14.6
Services                                          40.1    57.3    54.9      54.6

Privateconsumption                                64.3   76.5     71.7      71.0
GeneralgovemmentCOflSUmptiOn                      11.2     8.0     10.3     10.1
Importsof goods and services                      19.5    16.3     17.3     17.6              -GDI           " O I G D P



                                               1983-93 1993-03    2002     2003     Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                        1.4     5.2      6.0      1.5   2o T                                       i
Industry                                           0.3     2.6      6.6      5.4    10
   Manufacturing                                  -0.3     2.6      4.0      2.1
Services                                          -1.5     3.5      4.0      3.1    0


Privateconsumption                                -0.8     3.0      4.7      3.1  -10

Generalgovemmentconsumption                       -1.6     3.8     -0.8      2.9   -20
Gross domestic investment                          1.5     1.o      3.5      4.5
Importsof goods and services                       2.6     3.7      2.3      3.3


Note: 2003 data are preliminaryestimates.




                                                               28

                                                                                                          Schedule F

                                     OperationsPortfolio(IBRDDDAand Grants)

                                  PERU: SupplementalIrrigationSubsectorProject

                                                                                                                 ~


                                                                                                               Difference between
                                                                                                              expectedand actual
                                                           Original Amount in US$Millions                           disbursements

Project ID FY   Purpose                                  IBRD      IDA        SF       GEF    Cancel. Undisb. Ong.        Frm.Rev'd

PO88809    2005 PEInst. Capacity for Decent.TAL            8.80      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00    8.64      0.13        0.00
PO82625    2005 PEVilcanota Valley Rehab & Mgmt           4.98       0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00    4.98      0.00        0.00
                Project
PO82588    2005 PE(APL2)Agric ResearchandExtension        25.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00   25.00      0.00        0.00
PO78953    2005 PE-(CRL1)ACCOUNT. F/ DECENT.               7.80      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00    6.22      -1.58       0.00
                SOC.SCTR
PO74021    2004 PELIMA TRANSPORT PROJECT                   0.00      0.00     0.00      7.93    0.00    7.52       8.23       0.00
PO73438    2004 PEJustice Services Improvement            12.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00   12.00       7.75       0.00
PO35740    2004 PE LIMA TRANSPORTPROJECT                  45.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00   42.88     42.88        0.00
PO68250    2003 GEFPEPARTICIPATORYMGMT PROT                0.00      0.00     0.00      14.80   0.00   10.39       2.26       0.00
                AREAS
PO65256    2003 PENATIONAL RURALWATER                     50.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00   47.42      18.92       0.00
                SUPPLY AND
PO77788    2003 PETrade Facil.andProd. Improv. T. A.      20.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00   18.97       9.97       0.00
PO81834    2003 PELima Water Rehab Add'l Financing        20.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00   19.30       9.45       0.00
PO55232    2003 PE-RuralEducation                         52.50      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00   48.49       1.49       0.00
PO65200    2001 GEFPE IndigenousManagementProt.            0.00      0.00      0.00     10.00   0.00    4.46       1.28       0.00
                Areas
PO44601    2001 PE SECONDRURALROADSPROJECT                50.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   19.22      14.82       0.00
PO62932    2000 PE-HEALTH REFORMPROGRAM                   80.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00    8.90  -18.10         -18.10
                                                  Total: 376.08      0.00      0.00     32.73   0.00  284.39      97.50     - 18.10




                                                                29

                                                                                                  ScheduleG

                                                           PERU
                                               STATEMENTOF IFC's
                         HeldandDisbursedPortfolioInMillionsof US Dollars

                                                         Committed                          Disbursed
                                                        IFC                               IFC
FY Approval  Company                        Loan      Equity    Quasi   Partic. Loan      Equity      Quasi  Partic.
                                                                                              ~

2000         Agrokasa                       3.60         0.00     0.00    0.00     3.60    0.00        0.00   0.00
1999         Alicorp                        0.00         0.00    20.00    0.00     0.00    0.00       20.00   0.00
2005         Corp. Drokasa                  7.50         0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00        0.00   0.00
2004         EDYFICAR                       3.00         0.00     0.00    0.00     1.50    0.00        0.00   0.00
2002         FTSA                           7.50         0.00     1.50    0.00     7.50    0.00        1S O   0.00
2003         Global MEF                     0.00         0.00     4.00    0.00     0.00    0.00        0.50   0.00
2002         Gloria                         25.00        0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00        0.00   0.00
2002/03      ISA Peru, SA                   0.20         0.00     0.00    0.00     0.12    0.00        0.00   0.00
2001         InkaTerra                      5.00         0.00     0.00    0.00     5.00    0.00        0.00   0.00
2004         Interbank-Peru                 40.00        0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00        0.00   0.00
2002/03/05   Interseguro                    0.00         0.60     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00        0.00   0.00
2000/04       Laredo                        0.30         0.00     0.00    0.00     0.08    0.00        0.00   0.00
1998          Latino Leasing                2.01         0.00     0.00    0.00     2.01    0.00        0.00   0.00
2002          MIBANCO                       1.33         0.00     0.00    0.00     1.33    0.00        0.00   0.00
1999          Milkito                       5.50         0.00     3.50    0.00     3.50    0.00        3.50   0.00
2005          Miraflores                    10.00        0.00     0.00    0.00    10.00    0.00        0.00   0.00
2003          Norvial S.A.                  18.00        0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00        0.00   0.00
1998          Paramonga                     13.01        0.00     0.00   10.98    13.01    0.00        0.00   10.98
2001          PeruOEH                       9.40         0.00     0.00    0.00     5.40    0.00        0.00   0.00
1994          PeruPrvtznFund                0.00         7.90     0.00    0.00     0.00     7.90       0.00   0.00
1993/96/00/01 Quellaveco                    0.00         0.75     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.72       0.00   0.00
1999          RANSA                         6.25         0.00     0.00    0.00     6.25     0.00       0.00   0.00
2003          TIM Peru                      70.00        0.00     0.00    0.00    70.00     0.00       0.00   0.00
2001          Tecnofil S.A.                 4.50         2.00     0.00    0.00     4.50     2.00       0.00    0.00
2001          UPC                           5.50         0.00     0.00    0.00     5.50     0.00       0.00    0.00
2005          USMP                          9.00         0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00       0.00    0.00
1993/99       Yanacocha                     10.00        0.00     0.00   20.00    10.00     0.00       0.00   20.00

                          Total portfolio:  256.60      11.25    29.00   30.98    149.30   10.62      25.50   30.98



                                                                    ApprovalsPendingCommitment

              FY Approval      Company                          Loan      Equity     Quasi     Partic.

              2004             CMAC Arequipa                  0.01        0.00        0.00      0.00
              2005            DrokasaPCG                      0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00
              2004            EDYFICAR                        0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00
              2004             UPC I1                         0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00

                                     Total pendingcommitment:    0.01     0.00        0.00      0.00

7. Average rate of cost recovery for O&M of
all WUOs included inthe Project                          78%    81%
8. Contributions from Recipients from
   - Comp. A                                                    US$1.9
                                                                million
   - Comp. B                                                    US$2.7
                                                                million
9. Reduction in state participation in            %               10
irrigation investments for public works
10. Increasein availability of irrigation water Mmc/year  0     TBD
11.Implementationof EMP
(satisfactoryhnsatisfactory-related
comments and recommendedactions)
         OUTPUTINDICATORS
                Component A
12.Canalsrehabilitated or improved               Km.              76
13. Irrigation structures rehabilitatedor        No.              40
improved
14. Increasein efficiency of conveyance and       %       80      85
distribution in improved or rehabilitated
sections
15. Participation by beneficiaries inirrigation   %              40
investments in public works
16. Amount of subsidy per hectare                $/ha   TBD*     105


                                               31

        ments for on-farm technification




1* TBD
   resolution
       = to be determinedby Baselinestudy carriedout at beginningof projectimplementation




                                                      32


                                  80                                         78                                                76                                         74
           0                                                                                                                                                      COLOMBIA                 0               Departments and WUOs (tentative)
                                                                                                                                                                              Rio Caqueta                COMPONENT C1                     COMPONENTS A, B, C           COMPONENT D1
                                                                                                                                                                                                         TUMBES                           TUMBES                       PIURA
                                                                                                                                                                     Rio                                  Tumbes                          Tumbes                      Medio y Bajo Piura
                                                                                                                                                                                                         PIURA                            PIURA                         Alto Piura
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Medio y Bajo Piura              Alto Piura                 LAMBAYEQUE
                                                                                                                                                                               Putumayo                   Alto Piura                     LAMBAYEQUE                    Motuoe, Olmos
                                                                                                                                                                                                          San Lorenzo                     Motuoe                      La Leche

                                        PERU                                                                                                                                                              Sechura, Chira                  La Leche                    Zaa
                                                                                               E C U A D O R                                                                                             LAMBAYEQUE                        Zaa                       LA LIBERTAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LA LIBERTAD                   Chicama
                                                                                                                                                                Rio                                       Chancay Lambayeque
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Motuoe, Olmos                   Chao                        Jequetepeque
                                                                                                                                                                   Napo                                   La Leche                        Jequetepeque               ANCASH
          2                                                                                                                                                                                2            Zaa                           ANCASH                        Santa
                                                                                                                                                                                                         LA LIBERTAD                       Nepea                      Casma
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Chao, Guadalupito               Irchim                      Huarmey
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Chicama, Alto Chicama           Santa                      LIMA
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Jequetepeque                   LIMA                          Huaral
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Alto Jequetepeque               Chancay Huaral              Caete
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Moche, Viru                     Chillon                    ICA
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ANCASH                           ICA                           Ica
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Nepea, Irchim                  Ica                         Palpa
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Huarmey, Supe                   La Achirana                 Nazca
                                 Zarumilla                                       Rio                                                                                                                      Casma, Santa                   AREQUIPA                     AREQUIPA
                         TUMBES                                                                                                                                                    IQUITOS               LIMA                              Pampa de Majes              Acari
            Cancas     TUMBES                                                     Santiago                                                                                                                                                                              Bella Unin
                                                                                                                       Pastaza                                                                            Chancay Huaral    Rio           La Joya Antigua
          4                                                                                                                                                                                4            Huaura, Chillon                Amazonas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Tambo                       Yauca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Chili No Regulado
                  Mancora                                                                                                                                                                                 Huaral, Rimac                   Ensenada mejia

               El Alto                La Tina                                                                                                                                                             Caete, Lurn                   Santa Rita de Siguas
                                                                                                                    Rio                               L O R E T O                                                                Yavari
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Mala Omas         Rio           Ocoa
              Talara                Ayabaca                          San                                                                                                                                  Pativilca, Supe, Fortaleza
                                                                   Ignacio                                  Rio                                                                                          ICA
                           P I U R A                                    Oracuzar
                                                                          A                                                     Maraon                                                                   Ica, Palpa, La Achirana
                         Sultana
           Paita                                                           M                                                                                                                              Nazca, Pisco, Chincha
                                  Chulucanas
                   PIURA                                                                                                                                                                                 AREQUIPA
                                                 Huancabamba                A                                                                                                                             Bella Union, Ampato
                                                                             Z                                                                                                                            Majes, Acar, Yuramayo
                                                                     Bagua    O                                                                                      Ucayali                              Camana, Punta Bombon
                                                       Jaen
          Bayovar                                                              N                                                                                                                          Chili Regulado
                                                                                           Jumbilla
                                                                    Rio                             MOYOBAMBA                   Yurimaguas              Rio                                               Pampa de Majes
          6                       Olmos                               CHACHA-        A                                                                                                     6            La Joya Antigua y Nueva
                                                                         POYAS            S
                                                                         Maraon                                                                                                                          Tambo, Ampato
                            LAMBAYEQUE                        Cutervo                       Mendoza                                                                                                       Ensenada Mejia
                                                                                                        Tarapoto                                                                                          Santa Rita de Siguas
                                                   Chongoyape                                                                                                                                             Ocoa, Vitor, Yauca
                             CHICLAYO                   CAJAMARCA                                                                                                                                        MOQUEGUA
                              Pimentel                                                        S A N M A R T I N                                                                                           Tambo, Ensenada, Torata
                                                    CAJAMARCA                                                                                                                                             Pta. Bombon, Moquegua
                                                                                                    Juanjui
                                                                   Magdalena              Bolivar                                                                                                        TACNA

                                  Pacasmayo                                                                                                                                                               Torata, Tacna
                                                                    Cajabamba                                                                                                                             Locumba, Sama
                                                                                                         HuallagaRio                                                                                      La Yarada
                                       Chicama                    Otuzco

                                                             L A L I B E R TA D
           8                                                                                                           Tocache
                                                                                                                          Nuevo                                                                                       72                                       70                                 8
                                              TRUJILLO                       Santiago
                                                                             de Chuco                                                                             PUCALLPA


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        B R A Z I L
                                                                                          Caraz

                                                                           A N C A S H                                Tingo Mara

                                                                 Casma                         HUARAZ                        HUNUCO
                                                                                      Recuay                                                                                 U C A Y A L 
                                                                                                           HUNUCO
          10                                                     Huarmey                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10

                                                                                                                                            P A S C O
                         P A C I F I C                                                                                        Goyllarisquizga    Oxapampa
                                                                                                                                CERRO DE
                                                                          Pativilca                                               PASCO
                                                                                                                                                  Villa Rica                                Rio

                                                                               Huacho                                                  La Merced

                           O C E A N                                                                                                                          Satipo
                                                                                                                                             Palca                  Apurimac
                                                                                                                                       La Oroya   J U N I N                                    Urubamba
                                                                                          Chancay                                                                           Rio
                                                                                                              Yangas
                                                                                                                               Matucana
                                                                                            CALLAO                                                                                                                           M A D R E           D E         D I O S
           12                                                                                                L I M A
                                                                                                LIMA                                   HUANCAYO
                                                                                                                              Langa                                                                                                                                                                12

                                                                                                                                                       Colcabamba                                                                       Rio
                                                                                                                               Yauyos                                                                                                            Madre                   PUERTO

                                                                                                                                                                                                       Quillabamba                             de                     MALDONADO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Dios

                                                                                                                                                HUANCAVELICA
                                                                                                      Cerro Azul                            HUANCAVELICA                                       C U S C O
                                                                                              San Vicente de Caete                                                    AYACUCHO
                                                                                                                                            Castrovirreyna                               Santa Teresa                                                  Rio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Pillcopata

                                             P E R U                                                                                                                                          Ollantaytambo
                                                                                                            Chincha Alta                                                                                             CUSCO     Paucartambo                Inambari
                                                                                                                                                                                   Andahuaylas
                                   IRRIGATION                                                                             Pisco
                                                                                                          San Martin                                                                            ABANCAY

                                                                                                                                           ICA
          14                                                                                                                                                                          A P U R I M A C
                     SUB-SECTOR PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            14
                                                                                                                                    I C A                 A Y A C U C H O                 Chalhuanca                                                                                       BOLIVIA

                       AREAS OF INTERVENTION FOR                                                                                              Palpa

                                                                                                                                                                            Puquio                                                                P U N O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Yauri
                         PSI ADDITIONAL FINANCING                                                                                                Nazca                                                                                              Azngaro


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Huancane

                                                                                                                                           San Juan        Acari
                                       PROJECT INTERVENTION DEPARTMENTS                                                                                                                                                                          Juliaca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Lake

                                       DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                                                                                                    Chala                            A R E Q U I PA                                                                 Titicaca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PUNO
          16                          OTHER SELECTED CITIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      16
                                                                                                                                                                                          Pta. Colorada              Yura
                                       RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                  AREQUIPA

                                       DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                              Caman                                                                   Mazo          Desaguadero
                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                       Matarani                                                     Cruz
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Mollendo                MOQUEGUA                                                 Rio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MOQUEGUA


                   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                                           Tarata
                   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown                                    0      50       100      150     200      250                                                    Ilo
                   on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                                                                                                                                        T A C N A
                   judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or                                                       KILOMETERS                                                                                       Miculla
APRIL
          18      acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                           TACNA                                                 18      DRBI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Boca del Rio
     2005
                                       80                                     78                                                 76                                    74                                      72                        Arica        70  C H I L E                             75933

