Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1517 
Project Name 
Peru Irrigation Sub-Sector Supplemental Project 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Irrigation and drainage (90%);Agricultural extension and research 
(8%);Central government administration (2%) 
Project ID 
P094152 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF PERU - MINISTER OF FINANCE 
Implementing Agency 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
March 31, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
February 21, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
June 9, 2005 
1. 
Country and Sector Background
Peru’s 27 million people inhabit an area of 129 million hectares, about 10% of which cover the 
coastal area (
Costa
)
–
where the project is located. The rest is divided between the mountainous 
Sierra (30%) and the Amazon watershed 
Selva
,
comprised of the eastern plateaux of the Andes 
(
Ceja de Selva
)
and the Amazon jungle (
Selva Baja
). More than half of the population lives 
below the national poverty line, and more than 60% of those living in the coastal rural areas 
(project areas), are considered poor. 
 
Some 53 rivers, flowing west from the Andes to the coast supply the bulk of the water used for 
irrigation in the costal area. Of these rivers, more than half carry only seasonal flow. Only about 
30% are perennial. The rest depending on annual rain fall, is semi-perennial or have intermittent 
flows. Hence, year-round irrigation water supply for about 40% of the irrigated areas is 
unreliable.  
 
Irrigated agriculture accounts for about two thirds of agricultural output. Total irrigated areas 
cover about 1.7 million hectares (ha). About 1.0 million ha with irrigation infrastructure in place 
(58%) are located in the dry coastal areas. About 900,000 ha are controlled by 64 Water User 
Organizations (WUO), comprising about 300,000 water users. About 700,000 ha to 800,000 ha 
are actually cultivated, depending on annual precipitation. Of these, about 50% receive 
satisfactory water supply. For the other half, supplies vary from unsatisfactory to acceptable, 
subject to annual precipitation. Hence, an additional 200,000 ha to 300,000 ha are potentially 
irrigable with improved infrastructure and a more efficient use of the present water resources. 
 
Management of the irrigation schemes was transferred to the WUOs on 1989, without a program 
of WUOs strengthening. Up to the mid-nineties and before implementation of the PSI project, 
most of the irrigation infrastructure was old and needed extensive rehabilitation, resulting in 
largely inefficient water use. The main causes were (i) rapid proliferation of many large 
uneconomical irrigation schemes since the early 1960’s, (ii) inefficient WUOs, and (iii) even less 
efficient cost recovery for operation and maintenance (O&M).  
Page  2
Since June 1997, the World Bank has been financing the original PSI with a cost of US$172 
million and a Bank loan of US$85 million. The objectives of the Project were to develop the 
capacity of decentralized management of irrigation systems by WUOs to reduce the role of the 
public sector in irrigation, and to ensure recovery of O&M and partial investment costs. 
 
The PSI was closed on June 30, 2004 and has been rated as satisfactory in relation with 
objectives achievement and component outcomes. However, targets have been only partially 
accomplished, due to: (i) the reallocation of about US$30 million of the loan for emergency 
rehabilitation of primary irrigation infrastructure damaged by El Niño on 1998; and (ii) the non-
availability of the originally planned Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC) loan of 
US$60 million. As a consequence, the project had only 72% of the originally foreseen funds 
available. Hence, the shortfall of funds left parts of the objectives incomplete, i.e. WUOs require 
further support to strengthen their capacities, infrastructure rehabilitation needs to be 
consolidated, and irrigation technification extended and related cropping practices improved with 
continuous training. By a letter of August 10, 2004, the Government requested the Bank for an 
additional financing of US$10.25 million (total cost of US$21.63 million) to help close the gap. 
 
2. Objectives
The objective of the project is to contribute to increase the production and productivity of 
irrigated agriculture in the Peru’s Coast in order to improve the farmer’s well-being and to 
contribute to poverty alleviation. To achieve this objective, the project will promote the 
development of the WUOs financing and management capacity, the improvement in the use of 
the water resource and the increase in the soil use efficiency. 
 
Consistency with Government of Peru Policy
–
The proposed project would help meet these 
objectives which are in line with the National Irrigation Policy and Strategy (April 30, 2003) and 
its Agricultural Policy elaborated and the “Carta Verde” in January 2004. The Government is 
also keen to continue with the Bank’s assistance to implement the Irrigation Strategy of the 
country, the well advanced new Water Law and the policy framework related to water resources 
management. In January 2005 JBIC appraised a new irrigation investment project (loan of about 
US$ 56 million equivalent), expected to come on stream within the next two years.  
 
Relevance to the CAS
(August 19, 2004, Report #24205-PE) – The proposed project would 
contribute to develop the CAS strategic elements. 
Institutional reforms
 would be reinforced by 
WUOs strengthening as a means to decentralize irrigation management and support services 
provided by MINAG. The project would have a direct impact on the productive 
lives of the 
poor, 
as more than 70% of potential beneficiaries are small farmers (less than 3 ha). Also, 
infrastructure rehabilitation and users collective actions would reduce 
environmental
 damages 
caused by inadequate irrigation and lack of proper drainage. Finally, 
partnerships with civil 
society 
would be enhanced through the involvement of private service providers (training, 
extension, marketing), as well as beneficiaries / WUOs participation on the selection, design, 
financing and implementation of irrigation works. Table 1 summarizes the areas of Peru’s 
Development Framework matrix (CAS, paragraph 74) to which the project is expected to 
contribute. 
 
Table 1. Areas of project action in Peru’s Development Framework 
Page  3
Development 
Challenges 
Growth & 
Competitiveness 
Dignified and productive 
Jobs 
Equity
 
Access to Education, Heath and 
Culture 
 
Institutionality 
The State at the Service of the People 
 
Partner/Activity 
P
o
v
e
r
t
y
E
m
p
l
o
y
m
e
n
t
C
o
m
p
e
t
i
t
i
v
e
n
e
s
s
E
d
u
c
a
t
i
o
n
H
e
a
l
t
h
C
u
l
t
u
r
e
B
a
s
i
c
S
e
r
v
i
c
e
s
T
r
a
n
s
p
a
r
e
n
c
y
P
a
r
t
i
c
i
p
a
t
i
o
n
J
u
s
t
i
c
e
D
e
c
e
n
t
r
a
l
i
z
a
t
i
o
n
P
u
b
l
i
c
S
e
r
v
i
c
e
s
Project 
Little or no 
Focus 
Some Focus 
Significant Focus 
3. 
Rationale for Supplemental Financing
The proposed “Supplemental Financing” operation of US$10.25 million, to be implemented over 
a
2.5
year period, would meet all Conditions of OP 13.20 for “Supplemental Financing”, and is 
justified as follows: 
 
i) Cost overrun due to exceptional circumstances, beyond the borrowers’ control
:
In 1998 the 
Bank and the Government of Peru (GOP) agreed to reallocate some US$30 million loan funds 
(US$36 million total cost) for rehabilitation of primary and secondary irrigation infrastructure 
destroyed or damaged by El Niño 1998 (Amendment to Loan and Project Agreements, June 19, 
1998). 
 
ii) The loan is being implemented in compliance with covenants
:
The original loan (Ln. 4076-PE 
–
US$85 million) was closed on June 30, 2004. The Loan Agreement was amended for the 
reallocation of funds to El Niño emergency works. It was twice extended for a total of two years. 
Total disbursements reached almost 100% (99.6%) at loan closing. All covenants were adhered 
to. The ICR concluded that project implementation was satisfactory, although the cost overrun, 
due to emergency reallocation of funds, did not allow the Project to fully attain its development 
objectives.  
 
iii) It is impossible to reduce the scope of the project to fit the available resources without 
significantly impairing the project’s economic viability or capacity to achieve its objectives
:
Although the project was satisfactorily completed, it left a sizable shortfall to complete the 
project's key objectives of (i) achieving financial autonomy of (all) water user associations 
(WUO), and to (ii) complete and consolidate rehabilitation of existing irrigation infrastructure. 
Under the original PSI, about 50% out of 64 WUOs have reached full technical and financial 
autonomy. Under the proposed supplemental operation, about half of the remaining WUOs 
would be expected to reach full autonomy. The others would be trained to be well on the way to 
autonomy at the end of the 2.5 year implementation period. With intense training to all WUOs 
and farmers, the project would gain significantly in terms of overall sustainability. 
 
iv) The GOP is unable to finance the additional costs and to obtain additional funds from other 
lenders at reasonable terms or in reasonable time
:
The borrower does not have national budgetary 
resources available to finance the shortfall. The GOP did apply for a loan from JBIC, to be 
Page  4
negotiated shortly. But even if negotiations will be successfully completed, JBIC funds will not 
be available before the first semester of 2006. There are no other alternative sources of financing 
at this moment available to Peru on reasonable terms and in reasonable time for this particular 
sector. 
 
v) The time is too short to process a further freestanding Bank loan
:
From July 1 through the end 
of December 2004, the borrower has sustained PSI operations at a reduced pace from its own 
agricultural budgetary resources. No such resources are available for 2005. Processing even a 
repeater loan would require more time than the borrower can afford, without subjecting the 
coastal irrigation sector to a significant and potentially risky gap of resources to continue training 
WUOs towards self-sufficiency and consolidate rehabilitation works to guarantee sustainability. 
 
vi) The GOP is committed to the project, and the implementing agencies have demonstrated 
competence in carrying it out
:
The GOP’s high priority for this operation has been most recently 
expressed in the letters from Minister of Economy and Finance (August 10, 2004), and Minister 
of Agriculture (September 10, 2004). Furthermore, the GOP also manifests its high priority for 
irrigation and improved water management to enhance economic growth through agriculture in 
its Irrigation Strategy, April 2003; and "Carta Verde", published in January 2004. The UC-PSI, 
responsible for the successful implementation of the original project and very committed to its 
development goals, would also implement the majority of the proposed operation. 
 
Economic justification
:
The proposed operation is expected to further enhance the coastal 
irrigation’s economic returns, i.e. the original project achieved an Economic Rate of Return of 
24.1% and a Financial Rate of Return of 23%. In concrete terms, the original PSI benefited 
125,200 families (250 percent of the original SAR target and 41 percent of families in the 
Costa
)
and 443,000 ha (222 percent of the appraisal target and 42 percent of the agricultural land of the 
Costa
). Most important, as WUOs gain financial and technical autonomy, no national resources 
will be needed to operate and maintain irrigation infrastructure. 
 
4. Description
The Supplemental Financing would support the key project components of the original projects 
which are expected to have a major incremental impact. In addition it would help formalize 
water rights, a major move towards application of the Water Law, an advanced version of which 
is currently under discussion by a special Congressional Committee. Following are the proposed 
components: 
 
i) 
Component A. Rehabilitation and improvement of irrigation systems (US$ 4.89 million).
 
The component will finance design, implementation and supervision of civil works for the 
rehabilitation and improvement of public irrigation systems in 46 coastal WUOs, not included in 
the JBIC project. Each subproject will not exceed US$250,000 and will be selected by a 
prioritization procedure which includes criteria related to the level of water tariff and the 
percentage of share in the cost. The works will be executed either by WUOs directly (force 
account) or by the project. The beneficiaries will finance the engineering studies and will 
participate in the civil work cost with a minimum of 30% the first year; after this period, the 
Page  5
share percentage will be evaluated and eventually modified. To be eligible for this component, 
WUOs must achieve the conditions of eligibility1 established by the original project.  
 
ii) 
Component B. Incentive Program for Irrigation Technology Improvement (US$ 6.63 
million
).
 
This component will finance, through incentives, the technification of irrigation for 
groups of farmers of at least 10 members and an area of at least 40 ha. The component will 
finance gravity and pressurized systems, including collective and on farm investments. Farmers 
will be selected by competition for the allocation of incentives. Proposals will be initiated by 
groups of beneficiaries with a minimum contribution of 45% for pressurized irrigation and 30% 
for improved gravity systems. The evaluation will weigh the technical, financial and business 
plan components of the proposals in such a way as not to favor better off farmers and promoting 
the integration into productive chains (cadenas productivas). Each subproject will not exceed 
US$ 250,000 and one particular farmer can not participate with more than 30 ha. Project 
subsidies per land owner will not exceed US$12,000 for pressurized and US$6,000 for gravity 
systems
2
,
after beneficiary contributions.  
 
iii) 
Component C. Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building (US$ 3.95 million). 
The component will consist of two subcomponents. It is proposed that these two subcomponents 
be executed under Direct Administration by the UC-PSI. This unit
’s broad experience in this 
type of execution was acquired during the implementation of the original project. Moreover, this 
procedure would accelerate implementation by local experts who have been previously trained 
and who understand the project and especially the cultures and customs of the areas in which 
they would work  
 
a) Subcomponent C.1 Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building of WUOs. 
The 
subcomponent’s objective is to help committees achieve self-sufficiency in technical, financial, 
and administrative aspects, thus assuring their sustainability and the quality of their management. 
The project will operate in all WUOs of the Coast, albeit with different degrees of intensity. For 
those WUOs that have already achieved eligibility, an action program will be designed, aimed at 
consolidating what has already been achieved and achieving their sustainability, after which the 
training provided by the project would be considered concluded. In any case, future training 
would be assumed by the WUOs themselves through their training unit, the financing of which 
should be considered in their annual budget and duly required by the Irrigation District Technical 
Administration (ATDR) in accordance with their legal duties. In those WUOs which are likely to 
reach eligibility during project execution, the ATDR will carry out intensive strengthening, 
especially from the beginning, so that once they reach eligibility they can participate in the 
benefits of Components A and B. Finally, those WUOs that are most behind will receive specific 
strengthening adapted to their circumstances. In each case, the contents of training programs will 
be prepared in conjunction with the Water Resources Bureau (IRH) which will also supervise 
them, and be coordinated with the Formalization of  Water Rights Program in Component D. 
 
1
(i)  to have a Technical Manager; (ii) a realistic budget, reflected in water tariffs, allowing efficient O and M; (iii) 
water tariff payment in advance; and (iv) a higher than 75% tariff recovery.  
 
2
Average cost - US$2,700 / ha pressurized irrigation; US$900 / ha for gravity systems. 
Page  6
Strengthening will consist of training on O&M cost recovery, rehabilitation and maintenance of 
irrigation infrastructure, water distribution especially in irrigation blocks to be implemented by 
the IRH, as well as administration and management. This training will be carried out under the 
direct administration of the UC-PSI, for which the necessary local consultants will be hired, a 
formula utilized by the project in its previous stage. This subcomponent will be fully financed by 
the project. 
 
b) Subcomponent C.2 Capacity Building in Technification of Irrigation.
The subcomponent will 
carry out two types of activities: 
-
Actions prior to technification: dissemination
:
raising awareness; promoting the formation of 
groups; assistance in the preparation of the project profile and business plan; and training for 
agribusiness operators. These activities will be fully financed by the project. 
-
Actions subsequent to the carrying out of technification works:
 The project will finance 
extension activities aimed at other farmers to achieve a multiplying effect, promoting the 
adoption of technified irrigation. The content of this extension will include irrigation technology 
and associated crop practices. The series of activities listed below will not be financed per se by 
the project but will be promoted by consultants financed by the project. The activities to be 
promoted are:  
 
·
Technical assistance in the O&M of the irrigation system, under the responsibility of the system 
provider. 
·
Provision of farmer-financed technical assistance in the implementation of their business plan. 
·
The incorporation of groups in other extension and technical assistance programs: 
Agricultural 
Research and Extension Project
 (INCAGRO), 
National Institute of Agricultural Research 
and Extension
 (INIA), Agrarian Agencies, Non Governmental organizations (NGOs), and other 
private institutions.  
 
iv) 
Component D. Support to Water Resources Management (US$ 4.78 million). 
The 
component will consist of three subcomponents that will be executed by National Institute of 
Natural Resource’s (INRENA’s) Water Resources Institute (IRHI). 
 
a) Subcomponent D.1 Formalization of Water Rights.
The subcomponent will finance the 
formalization of 190,000 individual water rights with the objective of ensuring that beneficiaries 
have legal security on the use of irrigation and promoting private investments in irrigation. In 
addition, it will organize users in irrigation blocks to facilitate the management of these rights. 
The resources of the subcomponent will be allocated to the procurement of goods (satellite 
images, computers, etc.) and services (consultancies and vehicle rental). 
 
b) Subcomponent D.2 Implementation of the Water Rights Registry System
.
The subcomponent 
will finance the implementation, in INRENA’s IRH, of an administrative registry that allows 
water rights (licenses, permits, and authorizations) to be properly administered. A central unit 
will be implemented to store all geo-referenced data in a data storage warehouse. The first phase 
(on the Coast) of the National Water Rights Administrative Registry System will also be 
implemented.  
 
c) Subcomponent D.3 Support to the implementation of the Water Resources Strategy.
This 
subcomponent will finance activities needed for the diagnosis and evaluation of water issues in 
Page  7
all coastal regions, aimed at: (i) developing specific and tested solutions for conflict resolutions; 
(ii) developing a proposal for institutional arrangements for water resources management on a 
watershed basis and its relation to regional and local institutions; and (iii) supporting further 
development of the Water Law, currently discussed in Congress. 
 
v) 
Component E. Project Coordination and Monitoring (US$ 1.38 million). 
Project 
administrati
on
and monitoring will be carried out by the Irrigation Subsector Project’s 
Coordinating Unit (UC-PSI) in the Ministry of Agriculture, that will coordinate with IRH, 
responsible for Component D and parts of Component C. UC-PSI’s organic structure will be 
adapted to the needs of the project and those financed by JBIC, considerably decreasing the level 
of operating costs which should not exceed 8% of the project’s total cost. The component will 
include the studies for the baseline of the project and the required audits. 
 
Table 2.   Project Cost Estimates 
(US$ million)
 
GOB 
Component Beneficiaries 
TP* IRHI** 
IBRD Total 
A. Rehabilitation and 
Improvement of Irrigation 
Systems  
1.43 0.56 
0 
2.90 
4.89 
B. Incentive Program for 
Irrigation Technology 
Improvement 
2.78 1.88 
0 
1.97 
6.63 
C. Institutional Strengthening and 
Capacity Building 
0.41 0.97 
0 
2.57 
3.95 
C.1. Water Users Associations 
0 
0.48 
0 
1.64 
2.12 
C.2. Farmers 
0.41 
0.49 
0 
0.93 
1.83 
D. Support to Water Resources 
Management 
0
0.43
1.79
2.56
4.78 
D.1. Water Rights Formalization 
0 
0.20 
1.47 
1.30 
2.97 
D.2. Water Rights Registry System 
0 
0.20 
0.30 
0.94 
1.44 
D.3. Support to Water Resources 
Strategy Implementation 
0
0.03 0.02 0.32 
0.37 
E. Coordination and Monitoring 
0
1.13
0
0.25
1.38 
Total 
4.62 
4.97 1.79 10.25 
21.63 
*
Tesoro Publico (Public Treasury) 
** Instituto de Recursos Hídricos (IRHI) funds from non-agricultural water tariff  
 
5. Financing
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 6.76 
BENEFICIARIES 4.62 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
10.25 
 Total 
21.63 
 
6. Implementation
The Project will be executed over a two and a half year period by the existing and experienced 
UC-PSI for components A, B, C and E, and by IRH for component D and parts of Component C. 
There will be a Cooperation Agreement between PSI and IRH for the execution of Component D 
Page  8
and the supervision of subcomponent C1. The total cost is estimated at US$21.63 million, with a 
proposed Bank loan of US$10.25 million (Table 2, above). 
 
Board of Directors of PSI.
A
Board of Directors for PSI would be established, headed by the 
Minister of Agriculture, with representatives from MEF, IRH, WUOs, the agro export sector and 
the academic sector. The Executive Director of PSI (PSI-ED) will act as Secretary without vote. 
The functions of the Board will include: (i) defining functions and responsibilities of the PSI-ED 
and conduct his/her evaluation; (ii) proposing the designation of the PSI-ED; (iii) approving 
PSI’s annual operating plan; (iv) receiving progress reports and follow-up decision, as necessary; 
(v) ordering specific analysis and studies; and (vi) receiving, reviewing and commenting on 
annual audit reports. 
 
Indicators.
The project will be regularly monitored according to a set of indicators including 
number of families benefited, increase in beneficiary household income, decrease in public 
participation in irrigation public works, increase in water availability to farmers.  For details see 
Schedule H.   
 
Financial Management
.
During the project preparation, a) an on site Financial Management (FM) 
assessment has been accomplished; b) guidance for the funds flow, Financial Management 
Report (FMRs) preparation, FM issues for the inter-institutional agreement between IHR-
INRENA and PSI, as well as some recommendations for FM improvement have been provided; 
and c) agreements on the semi-annual FMRs format and the FM obligations and due 
collaboration of PSI and IRH-INRENA have been reached.  Overall, the structure of the UC-PSI 
is adequate for the project’s financial management. The administrative-financial staff have a 
combination of suitable experience and qualifications, in accordance with the Bank’s 
requirements. The budget execution process is carried out by different units, avoiding conflicts 
of interest.  Ex-ante control ensures a certain level of review and approval of project expenses. 
The Institutional Control Agency of the MINAG and the Office of the Comptroller General 
ensure ex-post internal control. The project external auditors have emitted unqualified opinions 
on the project’s financial statements and internal control for year 2004, including the grace 
period that closed the first phase of the project; the funds of the loan have exclusively been used 
for the project’s purposes. 
 
Nevertheless, there are some elements that could jeopardize project’s execution and cause 
delays: a) FM, accounting and treasury teams would be limited (weak) after project 
effectiveness; b) the use of two different systems for accounting (the national SIAF and the 
internal SAC) and Excel for reporting increases the team’s work load; c) IRH-INRENA has no 
previous experience with Bank’s projects and lacks experienced staff in procurement processes; 
and d) ineligible expenditures have been made in a repetitive way and refused by the Bank, 
during the first phase of the project. 
 
The following steps/mitigation measures have been agreed upon: 
 
1) PSI will: a) open the Special Account to receive funds from the loan; b) carry out the 
accounting and reporting according to the Bank processes; c) help IRH-INRENA with 
procurement processes; d) review and send the Bank procurement documents from IRH-
Page  9
INRENA, e) open the necessary bank accounts to timely receive the counterpart funds from the 
Peruvian Treasury and make all necessary transfers to IRH-INRENA in a timely manner; f) 
handle the external audit process (only one audit would be required in the life of the project as it 
should not exceed 18 months for its implementation); g) strengthen its archiving system and 
make physical space available in order to receive and adequately archive all new and up-coming 
documentation; and h) handle the preparation of FMRs as agreed; and 
 
2) IRH-INRENA will: a) open an operating account to receive transfers from the Special 
Account (handled by PSI); b) timely send PSI detailed budgets, in conformity with FMRs 
requirements and all required information for FMRs preparation; and c) send all original 
documentation and records to PSI for consolidation and keep copies of all said documents and 
records adequately archived. 
 
The FM recommendations for this supplemental project are as follows: a) reinforce PSI's FM, 
accounting and treasury teams, in order to carry out efficiently their tasks; further team 
strengthening will be necessary after the  JBIC loan becomes effective; b) reinforce its ex-ante 
internal control in order  to limit work load and avoid delays due to ineligible expenditures; c) 
work  clo
sely with the Bank’s FM team, in order to set up the degree of details for  each 
component and sub-component to be presented in the FMRs, before  negotiations. 
Procurement.
A
detailed list of hiring activities proposed by the PSI were reviewed for each 
component, and agreement was reached on the modalities for procurement of works, goods, and 
consulting services to be used for project implementation with funds from the supplemental loan. 
The contents were found to be acceptable and will serve as the basis for preparing the overall 
procurement plan that should be sent to the Bank prior to negotiations. The sample Terms of 
Reference for the selection and hiring of consultants and specialists required in the field and in 
significant numbers for tasks related to coordination, and training and technical assistance for 
farmers and users committees related to the implementation of Components C and D, will be 
submitted together with the procurement plan, for the Bank’s review and no objection. 
Based on the successful experience and achievements of the UC-PSI in the Direct 
Administration of training programs aimed at strengthening organizations of irrigation water 
users (Users Committees) and the introduction of technological innovations in irrigation and 
agricultural crops through the hiring of individual consultants in the program’s development 
zones, selected through competitive procedures, the UC-PSI will use of the same modality for 
the implementation of similar programs in the project’s supplementary phase. The UC-PSI will 
carry out direct supervision and monitoring of the performance of consultants assigned to 
training efforts. 
 
Table 3. Procurement Categories 
 
Category / Type of Expenditure 
Total 
IBRD 
Financing 
(US$ million) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to 
be Financed 
Works 4.6
45
Goods  
1.0
9
Services / TA 
4.65
46
Page  10
Total 10.25
100
Disbursements
.
The proceeds of the proposed Additional Financing would be disbursed over a 
three-year period and will cover the items indicated in Table 2, above. A Special Account would 
be opened with Banco de la Nación, with an authorized allocation of US$1.0 million. 
Disbursements would be made on the basis of SOEs, except those covered by contracts requiring 
the Bank’s prior review. The allocation of loan proceeds and estimated disbursement schedule 
are summarized in Schedule B. 
 
7. Sustainability
Two basic issues are linked to project sustainability –financial autonomy (full recovery of O&M 
costs) and technical autonomy (necessary technical know-how to adequately carry out O&M and 
rehabilitation works) of WUOs, as well as improved productivity and competitiveness of the 
agricultural sector. 
 
Autonomy of WUOs
.
The original project has made significant progress towards full autonomy 
of all 64 WUO. More than half (33 WUOs) have reached full financial and technical autonomy, 
key for the sustainability of the irrigation sub-sector, particularly cost recovery for O&M to 
assure proper maintenance of irrigation infrastructure. Under the original project, recovered costs 
for O&M increased from about US$7.8 million in 1998 to more than US$20 million in 2004. 
Under the proposed project about half of the remaining WUOs are expected to meet full 
autonomy criteria. The remaining 25% are expected to be well advanced towards autonomy at 
the end of the project period.  
 
Improved Productivity and Competitiveness.
During the original project, farm incomes increased 
on average by 30%, and yields between 20% and 70%. A well functioning infrastructure and 
technified irrigation would continue increasing water use efficiency, thereby increasing 
productivity, allowing diversification to higher-value crops – and further increasing farm 
incomes, crop yields, as well as revenues to the national government. These are incentives for 
farmers, WUOs and the Government to sustain irrigated agriculture, which is the most 
competitive of all agricultural sectors, in light of recent developments in free trade agreement 
negotiations. 
 
Formalization of Water Rights.
This new component introduced with this Supplemental 
Financing operation would formalize 190,000 additional Water Rights, thereby further 
strengthen the farmers position on their landholdings with regard to their irrigation investment 
contributions they have made in the past and are likely to make in the future. Hence, it would 
provide a further incentive to maintain irrigation infrastructure and sustain productivity at highest 
possible levels. 
 
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
Lessons from past operations were considered, specifically in identifying potential alternatives. 
 
Potential Alternatives Considered
i) 
Incorporating the continuous support to the irrigation sector into an integrated water 
resources management (IWRM) operation
:
While this would be a viable option, and the 
Page  11
government has requested Bank support for IWRM, such a Bank intervention would require 
more time to prepare and, notably, a larger loan for which the Government has not allocated 
‘fiscal space’ (Indebtedness agreement Peru-IMF) in their 2005 budget year (CY). However, a 
small budget to support the implementation of the Water Resources Strategy is included in the 
proposed irrigation project as subcomponent D.3. 
 
ii) 
Linear extension of original PSI components
:
this was rejected because this small intervention 
is supporting the activities that need most consolidation for sustainability (support to the WUOs) 
and have potentially the largest economic impact (technification of irrigation for higher crop 
yields and higher-value crops, as well as continuous rehabilitation of existing irrigation 
infrastructure). In addition, the Government has asked the Bank to support its all-out effort to 
register and formalize water rights, as a first step to implement the new Water Law (currently 
under discussions in Congress) of which the Bank has a long history in Peru of supporting. 
 
9. Safeguard 
Policies
(including public consultation) 
Safeguards
.
The only Safeguard that may be affected and has been assessed during project 
preparation is Pest Management (OP. 4.09, BP 4.01), as the project may alter the use of 
pesticides and fertilizers, especially Component B. A Pest Management Plan (PMP) is being 
accordingly formulated by the Government.  
 
10. Contact 
point
Contact: Abel Mejia 
Title: Sector Manager 
Tel: (202) 473-9336 
Fax:  
Email: Amejia1@worldbank.org 
 
11. 
For more information contact
:
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
