Docamt of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6393-CHA
TECENICAL ANNEX
CHNA
EC0NONIIC LAWl REFOR  PROJECT
SEPTEMBER 20, 1994



I



CHINA: ECONOMIC LAW REFORM PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Section A: Detailed Project Description
Project Obiectives and Overview
1.    The Project would support China's economic law reform by: (a) assisting in
the preparation of economic legislation in priority areas; (b) enhancing training
methods and curricula for law teachers, legal practitioners and legal, judicial
and other personnel in government departments in the theory and practice of the
new legal framework; and (c) strengthening the key legal institutions responsible
for legislation and implementation of economic laws.   Project assistance in the
first two areas, legislation and training, would be provided through support of
a program of sub-projects in each area. Institutional support would be provided
directly to the National People's Congress (NPC) Commission on Legislative
Affairs (CLA), which is responsible for reviewing all laws submitted to the NPC
for consistency and technical drafting, as well as for the development of the
legal profession (lawyers' examination and continuing legal education) and for
the development of legal information systems. Sub-projects would have no equally
suitable financing available from UNDP or other external financing agencies.
LeQislative sub-projects
2.    Sub-projects under the legislative component would support the preparation
of laws (and their supplementary regulations and implementing rules) included in
the NPC five-year (1993-98) legislative agenda, which would assist in the
development of a market economy (about 54 laws are considered in this category).
Each sub-project would consist of a package of assistance, designed to provide
comparative legal experiences and advice on legislative drafting in a specific
field of law.   Each package would include as necessary:   acquisition and
translation of materials (particularly foreign laws and regulations); employment
of international and local legal experts to advise on drafting outline and
detailed provisions; seminars to discuss initial directions and subsequent
drafts; and short, focussed study tours by drafting group members to investigate
specific issues arising in the drafting process. Sub-projects could assist all
stages of the drafting process, from analysis of need, initial drafting,
revisions and final debate and review, as appropriate in each area, and all
relevant levels of the legislative process (line agency, State Council, NPC)
would be expected to benefit from the assistance so as to develop common
understandings during the course of the drafting process.
3.    An initial set of seven legislative sub-projects has been prepared by the
implementing agencies in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, as Project
Coordinating Agency, and appraised by and agreed with the Association. Proposed
credit allocations, subject to final adjustment, are shown below. Subsequent
sub-projects would be proposed by the implementing agency concerned and, if
approved by the Project Coordinating Agency in consultation with the core
legislative agencies, recommended to IDA for its agreement. The initial set of



-2-
sub-projects are described in paragraphs 4 to 11 below. An indicative list of
other potential sub-projects is given in paragraph 12.
4.    NPC Commission on LeQislative Affairs (CLA). (Sub-project cost estimate:
$530,000; Credit financing $320,000).  Assistance would be provided to CLA in
preparation of legislation in two major areas:   unification of contract law
(economic contract law, foreign economic contract law and technology contracts);
and property law.   The unification of the existing contract laws has been
recommended for some time, and is a high priority in the legislative program.
Work on the contract law has already begun and is expected to take some time, in
view of the broad task involved.   The need for better legal regulation of
property rights (includinq quarantees) is also well-established.  The property
law is being considered as a separate law, since a comprehensive civil code is
not even in the legislative agenda ending in 1998.  Civil law and financial law
expertise will be required to make best use of comparative practice in this area.
5.    NPC Economic and Finance Committee (EFC).  (Sub-project cost estimate:
$980,000; Credit financing $700,000). Assistance would be provided to EFC in the
preparation of legislation in five of the ten areas of legislation for which EFC
has drafting responsibility under the NPC five-year plan; there are many other
laws for which EFC has review responsibility. The areas are: bankruptcy law,
futures market law, state property law, partnership enterprise law, sole
enterprise law and basic tax law. In view of the already considerable expertise
in the area of foreign exchange, an EFC request for assistance in the drafting
of the regulations on foreign exchange has been deferred for later consideration.
6.    The current bankruDtcv law applies only to state enterprises; bankruptcy
procedures for other enterprises have a minimal footing in civil procedure
provisions.  A revised bankruptcy law, applying one set of modern bankruptcy
rules to all enterprises regardless of ownership, would be an important step
forward.   The legal rights and responsibilities for the use,  transfer and
disposition of state-owned assets are also in urgent need of definition. While
work on futures market legislation is advanced, compatibility with external
markets and procedures heightens the need for foreign comparative assistance.
The two enterprise laws, partnership and sole proprietorship, would help to
complete the range of organizational options under the new legal system, now that
the company law has come into force. There would be some scope for combining
comparative interventions in these two areas, however, as expertise and issues
were likely to have substantial overlap. The basic tax law which EFC is drafting
will be a tax law of general principles, which will be coordinated with the five
free standing specialized tax laws for which MOF has requested assistance (see
para. 10 below).
7.    State Economic and Trade Commission (SETC).  (Sub-project cost estimate:
$170,000; Credit financing $100,000). Assistance would be provided to SETC in
the drafting of the anti-monovolv law, which is under SETC leadership with a
drafting group comprising SETC officials and those from the State Administration
of Industry and Commerce (SAIC). There is a need to explore not only developed
country models of anti-monopoly law and practice (eg., the U.S. and EC), but also
the experience of other transition economies in tailoring anti-monopoly
provisions to their economic circumstances. The possibility of establishing a



- 3 -
national Fair Trade Commission is also under consideration.
8.    State Commission for the Restructuring of the Economic System (SCRES).
(Sub-project cost estimate: $87,000; Credit financing $75,000) Assistance would
be provided to SCRES in the preparation of the shareholding cooperative
enterprise law.    The proposed shareholdinc cooperative enterprise law is an
attempt to address an existing phenomenon and offer legal definition and control.
Some study of cooperative laws of other countries would be useful, although it
will also be important to utilize corporate legal experts to ensure that the
resulting form of organization is compatible and can fairly compete with entities
under the company law and other laws.
9.    Ministry of Justice (MOJ).  (Sub-project cost estimate: $190,000; Credit
financing $140,000) Assistance would be provided to MOJ for revisions of the
lawyers' law, which was drafted before the great changes taking place in Chinese
legal practice in the last year, and for the preparation of implementing rules
and standards. Implementing legislation, necessary to carry out the stipulations
of the law, will include:   Implementing Rules for the Law of the People's
Republic of China on Lawyers, Standards for Lawyers' Professional Ethics and
Discipline, Lawyers' rules, and Lawyers' compensation provisions.   In all of
these areas, comparison with legal practice in other jurisdictions would be
essential in designing a new system for China's legal profession.
10.   Ministry of Finance (MOF).  (Sub-project cost estimate: $420,000; Credit
financing $300,000) Assistance would be provided to MOF's Legal Department for
the drafting of 6 items of legislation:   the state debt law and five free-
standing tax laws (enterprise income tax, value-added tax, business tax,
consumption tax and resource tax).   The state debt law,  being drafted in
conjunction with MOF's Debt Management Department, will cover issuance,
circulation and primary and secondary market regulation for state treasury bonds.
The five tax laws, being drafted in conjunction with MOF's Tax Policy Department,
will be coordinated with the basic tax law under preparation by EFC, and the tax
policy components of the proposed Fiscal and Tax Reform Implementation Project.
Assistance for tax law drafting should be able to take advantage of the
interrelationships among tax laws, so that, for example, in inter-related areas,
an expert visiting China or a study tour could cover several topics, and, of
course, collection of materials could be comprehensive.
11.   Ministry of Foreiqn Trade and Economic Cooperation (MOFTEC).  (Sub-project
cost estimate: $150,000; Credit financing $140,000) Now that the Foreign Trade
Law has been enacted and come into force, MOFTEC is finalizing the necessary set
of more than 10 implementing regulations on foreign trade, for issuance on an
urgent basis. In addition to anti-dumping, countervailing duty and safeguard
regulations which are well-advanced, assistance is also being provided for
regulations to cover the administration of import and export of commodities and
technology, issuance of import and export licenses and business licenses, among
others.    It  is  crucial  that  the  provisions  of  these  regulations  meet
international standards, such as GATT, to ensure China's entry into GATT and the
world trade community. Therefore, outside expertise will be an essential element
of the drafting process.



12.   Other Potential Legislative Sub-proiects.  Several items have been deferred
for later consideration: CLA's proposal on administrative procedure law; EFC's
proposal on foreicn exchange regulations; and SCRES' proposal on regulations for
trading of property rights. Possible assistance to BLA in legislative drafting
has also been deferred, as UNDP is currently considering BLA's request for
further support. Moreover, it is the intent of the Project to ensure that BLA
drafters are included, where possible, in the assistance to principal drafting
agencies, rather than proposing an entirely separate exposure to comparative
experience at the time of review of legislation.
13.   The State Planning Commission (SPC) proposed assistance to the drafting of
the fixed assets investment law.  Further consideration needs to be given to
whether any funding should be provided for this proposal to re-orient the law
based on market principles.   In addition,  a MOFTEC proposal for study of
conflicts of laws in Hong Kong and Macao has been deferred for later
consideration.
Training Sub-prolects
14.  Sub-projects under the training component would provide support for key
activities which would either: (a) have a broad impact on legal and other
professionals teaching, training or implementing economic laws; or (L where the
impact is more limited, demonstrate instead innovative approaches to meeting the
changing needs of the legal profession and legal system in the market economy.
Particular focus would be given to the development of new forms of teaching
materials and training methods and to the development of legal information
systems. Sub-projects would be expected to assist short-term needs in practical
training of legal personnel as well as long-term strengthening of the legal
training system, such as through curriculum development. Training sub-projects
would be expected to address primarily in-country training and would not be
limited to training at the national level in Beijing.
15.   Three initial sub-projects have been prepared by the implementing agencies
in consultation with MOF, as Project Coordinating Agency, and appraised by and
agreed with the Association.   Proposed credit allocations,  subject to final
adjustment, are shown below. Subsequent sub-projects would be proposed by the
implementing agency concerned and, if approved by the Project Coordinating Agency
after review by an expert panel, recommended to IDA for its agreement.   The
initial sub-projects are described in paragraphs 16-21 below. An indicative list
of other potential sub-projects is given in paragraph 22.
16.   Beiiing Lawyers Training Center.   (Sub-project cost estimate: $720,000;
Credit financing $500,000) The Beijing Lawyers Training Center is jointly funded
by the Beijing Municipal Justice Bureau and the Beijing Lawyers Association, but
its management is under the Lawyers Association. The sub-project would provide
assistance in preparing and purchasing teaching materials, equipping audio-
visual, simultaneous translation and other facilities, inviting foreign experts
in selected topics and physical improvements (which would be entirely locally-
funded). The course topics would include 10 core courses to be given over two
years:   company law (including relevant foreign law), intellectual property
rights, financial markets laws, international investment, anti-dumping and anti-



- 5 -
subsidy laws, international trade rules, legal profession and law firm
management, bankruptcy, international commercial arbitration, and drafting of
foreign legal documents.
17.   The market for this training would be the more than 3,000 lawyers currently
practicing law in Beijing. The Beijing Municipal Justice Bureau requires all
lawyers to take about 160 hours per year of additional training in order to
maintain their lawyers' licenses, as well as at least two training sessions
(about 2 days each) in professional ethics. These requirements can be fulfilled
at the Center, as well as by courses given elsewhere, such as MOJ's Senior
Lawyers Training Center, universities and foreign language courses.
18.   International Business Management Institute.  (Sub-project cost estimate:
$520,000; Credit financing $400,000) The International Business Management
Institute (IBMI) is a national adult training institution of higher learning,
established under the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation (MOFTEC)
in 1980. IBMI provides a variety of training programs in foreign trade-related
matters to managers of foreign trade enterprises and state enterprises with
foreign trading rights and to commercial counsellors in China's diplomatic
service, and has a teaching staff of about 100, including full-time and part-time
faculty. The sub-project would provide assistance to educate those foreign trade
managers and officials in the newly-enacted Foreign Trade Law and the many
regulations which will be issued under it. The proposed Foreign Trade Law course
would also include subjects in international trade law which are essential for
enterprise managers to export Chinese products and import foreign products
efficiently, with a view towards China's entry into GATT.
19.   The proposed course would be offered five times each year, and would cover
about 5 or 6 topics, for about 50 students.  Assistance would be required in
purchasing and compiling teaching materials, training teachers, inviting foreign
experts in international trade for some of the courses (and videotaping their
lectures for use in other courses) and, to the extent required, specialized
computer and audio-visual equipment needed for this course.
20.   China National Lawyers Correspondence Training Center.  (Sub-project cost
estimate: $590,000; Credit financing: $470,000) The Center was established by
MOJ in 1985 in Beijing to provide basic legal education and training to a wide
range of people who do not have opportunities to receive a formal legal education
but are interested in studying law. The Center has a broad impact in terms of
the number of its students and the geographic areas covered by its training
programs. Since 1985, a total of 400,000 people have received training from the
Center, around 45,000 students are registered each year. The graduates of the
Center receive  the Da Zhuan  (two-year college)  diploma.   The Center has
established 30 central stations (one for each province) and 345 guidance stations
under the Justice Bureau at regional/city level.   Some of the stations are
located in remote and poor areas or minority nationality areas, where no other
forms of legal training are available.
21.   The training program consists of 14 courses including philosophy, political
economy, literature, legal philosophy, constitution, Chinese legal history,
criminal law, criminal procedure, civil law, civil procedure, economic law,



- 6 -
family law, international law, notary and lawyer systems. Training is provided
through correspondence materials and audio-visual materials, and teachers make
a circuit of the guidance stations to give lectures and answer questions.
Financially, the Center is a self supported educational organization, which does
not receive any budget from the government. Tuition which is currently charged
at 260 RMB/person has been the major financial source of the Center. While only
a portion of the Center's activities are related to economic laws, its unique
function in making basic legal knowledge available to members of the general
public as well as some in-service training for lawyers would merit Project
support.
22.   Other Potential Training Sub-prolects. Several other training sub-projects
are under consideration, but proposals are not yet ready for review.   These
include:
(a)   Training in Fiscal Legislation for Local-level Officials:  The MOF Legal
Department has proposed specialized training of provincial and local
government finance department/bureau officials in the newly-enacted fiscal
laws. As this work would be undertaken by MOF's Training Institute, which
already provides training for these officials in other subjects,
preparation of a separate proposal for a training sub-project will require
further internal discussion and coordination within MOF. A well-prepared
proposal in this area would address the need for better implementation of
law at the local level.
(b)   Legal Curriculum Development:  The MOJ Education Department has requested
assistance under the Project for the preparation of a modern law teaching
curriculum, focussed on topics in economic law. MOJ is working with MOF
to prepare a revised proposal focussing on the first set of books to be
prepared.   Possible topics for the first set include:   international
economic law, foreign-related economic law, negotiable instruments,
company law, contract law, real estate law, bankruptcy law, securities
law,  insurance law and tax law.   An interagency review committee is
expected to be established to review draft texts, including those drafters
of  some  of  the  new  laws  who  had gained  substantive  knowledge  of
comparative legal principles and practice as well as pedagogic experts who
could recommend new types of teaching methods (case studies, for example)
to be followed. It would be consistent with the recommendations of the
training needs assessment to expose the principal authors to new teaching
methods before they begin preparation of the materials.
(c)   State Education Commission (SEdC):  SEdC  has  proposed  introducing  a
training program in economic law, to be offered at Beijing Law Faculty and
Fudan Law Faculty in Shanghai.   Further work is necessary to develop a
proposal which addresses the management of the program, the respective
roles of the SEdC and the law faculties, and the detailed planning and
implementing of the training program itself. The list of topics proposed
(including international trade and financial law, company law, tax laws,
intellectual property law and real estate law) falls squarely within the
objectives of the proposed Project, so that if a well-designed proposal
could be prepared it would be eligible.



(d)   Judicial  Training  Institute:    Training  for  senior  judges  has  been
supported by other donors in the past. Preparations are in progress for
the establishment of a new Judicial Training Institute.  To the extent
that other (grant) financing is not available, a proposal for assistance
under the Project may be forthcoming.
Institutional Support
23.   The institutional support component would provide assistance to the CLA,
BLA and MOJ.
(a)   CLA (Cost estimate $200,000): CLA has principal responsibility for
reviewing all draft legislation submitted to the NPC and its
Standing Committee, whether prepared at the NPC or by line agencies
under BLA's supervision.   Modernizing CLA's office technology to
enable draft legislation to be revised, prepared and circulated
quickly and efficiently, often under the pressure of legislative
sessions, would be assisted through provision of office equipment,
computers and printers. CLA's existing capacity for comparative law
research would be strengthened by the addition of legal databases
for countries of especial comparative relevance for the new laws
under preparation.
(b)   BLA (Cost estimate: $620,000):  BLA has developed its own Chinese
law database, with support under the UNDP Legislative Drafting
Project.     This  database  includes  NPC  laws,  State  Council
regulations, administrative rules of central ministries, and
provincial  regulations  and  administrative  rules.    To  ensure
effective coverage of legislation and to strengthen drafting
capacity at the Ministerial and provincial level, the database would
be extended through provision of workstations and network
connections to 30 central departments and agencies; provincial level
government legislative bureaus may also be included. Assistance to
BLA in developing and maintaining the database and network would be
provided. In the future, other entities such as law faculties and
law firms could be provided access to this system, on a commercial
basis.
(c)   MOJ   (Cost estimate: under finalization):   MOJ is undertaking a
reform of the lawyers examination system, to upgrade the quality and
consistency of testing. A new procedure for developing and using
testing material is under study, as is a modernized testing
administration. Assistance would be provided to provide comparative
experience and technical support.
Section B: Prolect Administration and Implementation
Proiect Implementation Plan
24.   A Project Implementation Plan was agreed with MOF during the appraisal.



- 8 -
Its principal contents are set out below.
25.   Project Coordinating Agency.  The World Bank Department of MOF would be the
overall Project Coordinating Agency, responsible for the day-to-day project
coordinating work.   This project coordination would be carried out by the
Technical Assistance and Training Division, and would include:
(a)   sub-project Preparation and review--working with potential sub-project
entities to plan and prepare sub-projects and reviewing sub-project proposals for
consistency with Project objectives, eligibility criteria, internal consistency,
relevance of content, reasonableness of cost estimates and cost-sharing
arrangements and adequacy of implementation arrangements;
(b)   sub-project approval--consulting with IDA on draft sub-project proposals
and furnishing final proposals as agreed by MOF to IDA for approval;
(c)   sub-project implementation- -assisting sub-project entities in applying Bank
guidelines on procurement and disbursement to the hiring of foreign experts,
procurement of equipment and materials, planning of study tours and organization
of seminars;
(d)   sub-proiect monitoring--preparing (and furnishing to IDA) annual work plans
and semi-annual Project progress reports, along with the semi-annual sub-project
progress reports prepared by sub-project entities; preparing for the Project mid-
term review; and assessing the impact of each sub-project upon completion and the
impact of the Project as a whole in a Project Completion Report;
(e~) overall Proiect implementation--assisting agencies under the institutional
support component; preparing and presenting withdrawal requests to the Bank,
managing the Special Account, maintaining Project accounts and records and
ensuring their required annual audit; and convening periodic (at least semi-
annual) meetings of the Legislative Advisory Group (see para. 27).
MOF would employ a legal consultant in Beijing to assist in the preparation,
review and supervision of sub-projects as outlined above, to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit. Terms of reference and the selection process for
the legal consultant were confirmed at negotiations.
26.   The entity implementing each sub-project and the agencies under the
institutional support component would be responsible for basic preparation and
implementation. Semi-annual progress reports would be prepared and furnished by
these entities to MOF for consolidation and comment.
27.   Legislative Sub-project Approval Process.  MOF would consult with other
relevant agencies in the selection of sub-projects and review of their
implementation. For legislative sub-projects, a Legislative Advisory Group would
be constituted, inter alia, of senior representatives of the CLA and the EFC,
BLA, and SCRES.   MOF would convene meetings of the Legislative Advisory Group
as needed, but at least every six months, at intervals which would allow input
from this Group into the semi-annual progress reports and MOF's annual work
plans. The participation of the Legislative Advisory Group would ensure that the



- 9 -
legislative sub-projects met the eligibility criteria  (para.2).  During the
annual work plan review (para. 29), MOF and IDA would agree on laws eligible for
assistance in each year. Detailed sub-project proposals would be prepared as
outlined in para. 25 and retained by MOF for review by IDA supervision mission.
However, MOF would request IDA approval of legislative sub-projects using a
simplified approval sheet.
28.   Training Sub-project Approval Process.   For training sub-projects, MOF
would maintain a list agreed with the Bank of experts in legal education and
training (including international and comparative expertise as needed), and would
request at least three experts to review each training sub-project proposal.
Selection of the three experts to review each proposal would depend on expertise
and avoidance of any conflicts of interest. MOF would invite experts to be kept
on a roster, under standard agreement on a timely review and on reasonable
compensation on a per review basis. Fees for review by these experts would be
eligible for financing under the Credit. Agreement on a roster and contractual
arrangements were confirmed at negotiations.
29.   Monitoring and Progress Reporting.  Annual work plans would be prepared by
MOF and furnished to IDA for discussion and concurrence. Each work plan would
include: sub-projects under preparation (brief summary of content, tentative
amount and status of preparation); sub-projects in implementation (listing of
planned activities, by sub-project, with commentary); sub-projects scheduled for
completion and evaluation.   Work plans for 1994 and 1995 were agreed at
negotiations; proposed work plans for each year thereafter would be provided to
IDA for review and approval by October 31 of the preceding year. To aid in this
process, MOF would require sub-project entities to provide sub-project work plans
as part of sub-project proposals, updated in semi-annual sub-project progress
reports. The information from these plans would be consolidated into the overall
Project work plans prepared by MOF.
30.   Semi-annual Project progress reports would be prepared based on sub-project
progress reports and actual implementation experience, highlighting activities
undertaken, disbursements, Project progress and implementation issues.  Semi-
annual Project progress reports (incorporating sub-project semi-annual progress
reports) (para. 25) would be provided to IDA by March 1 and September 1 in each
year.   Key indicators for Project monitoring would be the preparation and
eventual enactment of well-drafted and well-considered laws and regulations
resulting from legislative sub-projects and the development of new training
mechanisms and effective training courses resulting from training sub-projects.
A mid-term review of Project progress and prospects would be jointly undertaken
by MOP and IDA by December 31, 1996, and a Project Completion report would be
prepared by MOF within six months after the Closing Date (June 30, 1999). The
Project Completion Date is December 31, 1998.   Agreement on a semi-annual
Project progress report form and a model sub-project progress report form was
confirmed at negotiations.
31.   Supervision Arrangements.    IDA staff (task manager, assisted by other
staff and consultants with specialized expertise) responsibilities during the
course of Project implementation would include:  (a)  review of draft and final
sub-project  proposals,   providing  comments  and  guidance  on  revisions;



- 10 -
(b)   approval of sub-project proposals and allocation of Credit funds, and
advising MOF of approvals and allocations; (c)  review and approval of annual
work plans and review and comment on semi-annual Project progress reports;
(d)   participation in mid-term review; (e) providing guidance to sub-project
entities on substantive aspects of sub-project implementation, including
selection of experts, study tour destinations and review of legislation produced
under sub-projects; and (f) undertaking semi-annual supervision missions in the
spring and fall of each year to discuss progress (following receipt of semi-
annual Progress report) in preparation and implementation of sub-projects and to
reach agreement on annual work plans.  IDA staff would also participate in a
Project Launch Workshop, to be organized by MOF shortly after Credit
effectiveness (fall 1994), to familiarize sub-project entities and potential sub-
project entities with Project objectives and procedures.
Proiect Administration
32.   Proiect Cost and Financing Plan.  The total Project cost is estimated at
$13.3 million. The foreign cost is an estimated $10 million. The local cost is
expected to be Y28.5 million ($3.3 million), not including taxes and duties, from
which the Project, related imports and overseas consultants' fees and
remuneration are exempt. The Project cost is based on the initial sub-project
cost estimates and recent experience with other free-standing technical
assistance projects in China.
33.   The Project would be financed in part by a Development Credit of SDR 6.9
million ($10 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity.
The Credit would finance the cost of foreign and local consultants, in-country
training, overseas study tours and equipment for training and institutional
support.  Local financing of Y28.5 million (about $3.3 million), amounting to
approximately 25% of Project costs, would be provided by the Government and
implementing  entities  and agencies.    Credit  funds  would be provided  to
implementing agencies on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association,
which would include provision of Credit proceeds on a grant basis to agencies
financed by the government budget.
34.   Procurement.  Goods (equipment and materials) would be procured through
local shopping procedures (for contracts below $100,000 equivalent) and local
competitive bidding procedures (for contracts between $100,000 and $200,000
equivalent).   Proprietary teaching materials,  books and journals would be
procured directly from the supplier, under procedures satisfactory to the
Association.    Qualified international and local consultants would be engaged
under the Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants.   Contracts for goods
over $200,000 would be subject to international competitive bidding procedures
including preference for domestic manufacturers.   All goods contracts over
$200,000 would be subject to prior review as would the first three consultants'
services contracts under each Sub-project and all other consultant contracts over
$15,000 equivalent.
35.   Disbursement.   Disbursement would be made for:  (a) goods, at 100% of
foreign expenditures, 100t of local expenditures (ex-factory) and 75t of
expenditures for other items procured locally; and (b) consultants' services,



- 11 -
training and study tours, 100% of expenditures.   A Special Account with an
initial deposit of $900,000 would be established in a commercial bank, managed
by MOF.   Disbursement against contracts  for goods not exceeding $100,000
equivalent and for consultants' services not exceeding $15,000 equivalent and for
study tours would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs).
Retroactive financing of up to SDR 200,000 may be required for more urgent
expenditures under pre-approved legislative sub-projects incurred after June 27,
1994.
36.   Accounting and Audit Arrangements.  The Project accounts and the Special
Account would be maintained by MOF. The Project accounts, including the Special
Account and the documentation for SOEs, would be subject to an annual audit by
an independent auditor satisfactory to IDA, expected to be the Audit
Administration of China. The audit report, including a separate opinion on SOEs
and the Special Account, would be furnished to IDA within six months of the end
of the Government's fiscal year.



- 12 -
Annex 1
CHINA: ECONOMIC LAW REFORM PROJECT
KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
Government    Project Component           Expected Results         Responsible
Objectives      Activities                                              Agency
LEGISLATIVE
COMPONENT
Utilize         Acquisition and             Finalized drafts of
foreign         translation of              law for consideration
experience in  comparative legal            by NPC, including:
the use of      materials                   Unified contract law   CLA
laws in a                                   Property law             CLA
market          Conducting policy           State Assets Law         EFC
economy         studies                     Futures Market Law       EFC
Revised Bankruptcy
Compare         Preparing and revising      Law                      EFC
Chinese and    draft legislation            Basic Tax Law            EFC
foreign legal                               Enterprise Laws          EFC
practice in    Organizing workshops and  State Debt Law              EFC
specific        seminars to discuss         Implementing Rules
areas to        legislation and             of Foreign Trade Law   MOFTEC
assist          comparative experience      Share-holding
drafting of                                 Cooperative Law          SCRES
Chinese         Undertaking study tours    Anti-Monopoly Law         SETC
legislation    to explore specific          Lawyers Law              MOJ
issues arising in the       Specific Tax Laws        MOF
drafting process
TRAINING
COMPONENT
Upgrade         Preparing and offering      Better-trained           Sub-project
knowledge of   training for lawyers and  lawyers and others          entities
legal           other professionals in      involved in
professionals  new economic laws,           implementing and
in economic    including company law,       using new economic
laws and        financial markets laws,    laws and commercial
strengthen      bankruptcy law,             legal system
legal           international trade
education and  laws, and general            Improved training for
training        commercial legal            law students and
framework                   faculty
Designing new curriculum
for training in selected
topics of economic laws



- 13 -
Government      Project Component          Expected Results         Responsible
Objectives      Activities                                          Agency
INSTITUTIONAL
SUPPORT
COMPONENT
Strengthen     Acquisition of office       Strengthened institu-   CLA
the key legal  automation equipment and  tional capacity in
institutions   comparative law             processing,
responsible    databases                   production and
for                                        circulation of
legislation                                legislative drafts
and
implementa-    Connecting a legal          Legal information        BLA
tion of         information network        network shared among
economic laws                               central and
provincial government
agencies as well as
law firms and
academics
Modernizing lawyers'       Improved system for    MOJ
examination system         qualifying
lawyers;



- 14 -
CHINA: ECONOMIC LAW REFORM PROJECT
Annex 2
TRAINING PLAN
1.    Training under the Project would be provided under the selected training
sub-projects.    The training institutions would provide  training in China
primarily in Chinese laws and in those international laws and practices which are
essential to the market economy in China, such as international trade law.
Training institutions are expected to include non-governmental training centers
(such as the Beijing Lawyers Training Center), governmental training institutes
(such as IBMI), as well as training offered at existing law faculties and
universities.
2.    Training sub-projects are intended to promote new training methodologies
suited to the representation of clients and enforcement of laws in market
transactions, which is different from the role of lawyers and officials in the
former planned economy. This would be accomplished through the preparation of
new teaching materials, as well as through the training of trainers in new
methods.
3.    Most of the trainers are expected to be local professionals, but where the
subject matter includes foreign laws, foreign experts would be invited to teach
the courses. An effort would be made to make use of videotape and audiotape to
record such courses, with permission, so that foreign lecturers could receive the
widest possible audience.



