                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32265

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-26540)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.9 MILLION

                                   (US$ 10 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                                 FOR AN

                                ECONOMIC LAW REFORM PROJECT




                                               May 4, 2005




East Asia and Pacific Region
Legal Vice Presidency

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective July 1, 1994)

                            Currency Unit = RMB (Y)
                                     Y1.00 = US$ 0.12
                                 US$ 1.00 = Y8.50

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1     December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BLA     -     Bureau of Legislative Affairs
BLTC    -     Beijing Lawyers Training Center
CAS     -     Country Assistance Strategy
CLA     -     Commission on Legislative Affairs
CLINS   -     China Legal Information Network System
ELRP    -     Economic Law Reform Project
GOC     -     Government of China
LAG     -     Legislative Advisory Group
MOE     -     Ministry of Education
MOF     -     Ministry of Finance
MOJ     -     Ministry of Justice
NPC     -     National People's Congress
OLA     -     Office of Legislative Affairs (State Council)
SARS    -     Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
SC      -     State Council
SIFT    -     Shanghai Institute of Foreign Trade
SOE     -     State Owned Enterprises
TA      -     Technical Assistance
WTO     -     World Trade Organization

                           Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                         Country Director       David R. Dollar
                          Sector Manager        Anthony Toft
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Nicolette K. DeWitt

                                            CHINA
                                Economic Law Reform Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31

Project ID: P003647                                                  Project Name: China Economic Law Reform -LEGEA
Team Leader: Nicolette K. Dewitt                                     TL Unit: LEGOP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 4, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: China Economic Law Reform -LEGEA                         L/C/TF Number: IDA-26540
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Law and justice (76%); Tertiary education (24%)
                  Theme: Legal institutions for a market economy (P); Law reform (P); Legal
                            services (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/04/1993                                     Effective: 02/03/1995                02/03/1995
     Appraisal: 06/26/1994                                         MTR: 07/01/1997                  07/18/1997
      Approval: 10/18/1994                                      Closing: 06/30/1999                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          People's Republic of China/Ministry of Finance
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Gautam S. Kaji
Country Director:               David R. Dollar                                Nicholas Hope
Sector Manager:                 Anthony Toft                                   Sherif Omar Hassan & Zafer Ecevit
Team Leader at ICR:             Nicolette K. Dewitt                            Natalie Lichtenstein
ICR Primary Author:             Sandra Beemer


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Context. In 1993, when the Chinese Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the World Bank began identification
and design work on what was to become the Economic Law Reform Project (ELRP), China's leaders were
giving top priority to developing a legislative agenda that would facilitate China's move to a market
economy. Almost as many laws were scheduled for consideration in the upcoming 1993-1998 five year
session of the Chinese legislature, the National Peoples' Congress (NPC) as had been enacted between
1949 and 1992. Legal education had been revived only a decade earlier after a hiatus of a decade. These
government priorities drove design issues and enabled the MOF, working with the Bank's project
development team, to set the project objectives which were to: (a) strengthen the preparation of economic
legislation in priority areas; (b) enhance training methods, curricula and opportunities for law teachers,
legal practitioners and legal, judicial and other government personnel in the theory and practice of a new
legal framework; and (c) strengthen the key legal institutions responsible for legislation and the
implementation of economic laws. These objectives reflected the Government of China's (GOC) policy to
accelerate the development of the legal framework for economic reform. The objectives also fit squarely
within the then current Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which gave attention to strengthening
legal technical assistance to support market reforms. In addition, the project fit squarely with the
government legal reform agenda which was central to China's efforts to move from a "country governed by
men" to a "country governed by law".

3.2 Revised Objective:

Not Applicable


3.3 Original Components:
Component 1: Legislative Component (Cost: US$ 5.5 million)
This component supported the preparation of laws (and their supplementary regulations and implementing
rules) included in the NPC's legislative agenda, which would assist in the development of a market
economy. Each legislative sub-project consisted of a package of technical assistance, designed to provide
comparative legal experiences and advice on legislative drafting in a specific field of law. Each legislative
package also included: acquisition and translation of materials (particularly foreign legislation);
employment of international and national legal experts to advise on draft laws; seminars to discuss initial
directions and subsequent drafts, and short, focused study tours by drafting group members to investigate
specific issues arising in the drafting process.

Component 2. Training Component (Cost: US$ 6.5 million)
The training component provided support for key activities that either: (i) would have a broad impact on
legal and other professionals teaching, training or implementing economic laws; or (ii) demonstrated
innovative approaches to meeting the changing needs of the legal profession and legal system in the market
economy. Particular focus was given to the development of new forms of teaching materials and training
methods as well as the development of legal information systems. Training was conducted in-country and
addressed short-term needs in the practical training of legal personnel as well as long-term strengthening of
the legal training system.

Component 3. Institutional Support (Cost:           US$ 1.3 million)
The institutional support component provided targeted assistance to key legal institutions whose functions
were critical to the country's evolution toward a market economy. These institutions included: (i) the
NPC's Commission on Legislative Affairs (CLA) with principal responsibility for reviewing and revising



                                                      - 2 -

drafts of all key legislation for consideration by the NPC, which received support for modernizing its
document processing and circulation with new office equipment and technology as well as upgrading its
databases of foreign laws for comparative law reference purposes; (ii) the Bureau of Legislative Affairs
(subsequently renamed the Office of Legislative Affairs (OLA)) within the highest level of GOC's
executive branch, the State Council, which received support to connect the State Council at the national
and local levels to a common legal information network system (CLINS) that would include a
comprehensive database of Chinese laws and regulations (both national and local) and would facilitate
reviews by the State Council of draft regulations; and (iii) the Ministry of Justice (MOJ), which received
support for redesigning the lawyers examination system and continuing legal education.

The design of the three components was clearly linked to the objectives described above. The credit: (i)
facilitated the preparation of laws and regulations included in the legislative agenda of the NPC by putting
comparative experience in the hands of local drafters; (ii) promoted implementation of laws through
innovative training of government officials, judges and legal professionals; and (iii) supported key legal
agencies by modernizing the lawyers' examination system and upgrading legal databases. This gave
officials the opportunity to learn lessons from international experience as they reformed their legal system.

3.4 Revised Components:
At mid-term the project's legislative component was broadened at the request of GOC to include an
expanded legislative agenda brought about by China's accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO).
WTO accession made it necessary for the NPC and the State Council to revise a large number of existing
laws and regulations and to speed up preparation of other new laws. GOC's request, to which IDA agreed,
in turn necessitated an expansion of the Project's original scope (originally envisioned to be limited to laws
to be considered by the NPC during its 1993-1998 legislative agenda) to cover the NPC's subsequent five
year legislative agenda, and to support the drafting process of regulations which were to be considered and
passed by the State Council during this same period. The institutional component was also broadened
following the mid-term review in several respects. First, with the developments in information technology,
access to the OLA's CLINS was broadened to include the general public through the internet. Second,
several Project-supported study tours were among the factors that convinced the MOJ to expand the
lawyers' examination system to include the judges and procurators' examination system, and to combine all
three in a single unified examination system. Third, the Project began to provide support to the Chinese
judiciary. This support reflected the natural evolution and fruition of China's legal reform efforts, which by
the latter half of the Project could boast the enactment of a basic legislative framework, and a shift in
GOC's focus to the implementation of this framework.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry, as assessed by the peer reviewers, was satisfactory based on: (i) consistency of objectives
with the priorities of the NPC; (ii) demonstrated capacity of GOC to implement other technical assistance
(TA) projects in China; and (iii) the fact that the scope of the Project was not overly ambitious and careful
attention had been given to what was relevant and attainable in context of law reform in China.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of objectives and outputs under the Project is satisfactory. The project design was broad
and flexible enough and fit well enough within GOC's own comprehensive program of legal reform to
allow the government entities participating in this program to implement the Project's stated objectives of
strengthening preparation of priority economic laws, enhancing legal training and strengthening key legal
institutions. In the end, the project supported: (i) 15 agencies involved in drafting more than 50 pieces of



                                                       - 3 -

legislation critical for the functioning of a market economy; (ii) 5 training institutions that provided more
than 34,000 person/times (person/times means number of participants in all training sessions; individuals
attending more than one session are treated each time as a new person) of training to public officials,
private lawyers and business and judges; and (iii) 4 institutions responsible for implementing the legislative
agenda, improving access to Chinese laws and reforming the lawyers' examination system.

All of the laws and regulations supported by the legislative subprojects were drafted and in many instances
enacted with others still being revised. Surveys conducted at Project completion indicate that across the
board, the participating government entities found the assistance provided by the Project improved both the
quality of the legislation prepared (through a better understanding of the practical issues involved and
solutions devised in other countries) and the process for its preparation (through increased public
participation and transparency). Particularly noteworthy is GOC's efforts to ensure the involvement by
each drafting agency of experts -- either staff or academic advisers -- with deep understanding of China's
legal framework as well as its economic goals, who could effectively translate the international experience
gained into legislation adapted to China's actual needs, and the selection of top caliber training institutions
to provide training under the Project. The training subprojects met the physical output targets for all
training facilities and the number of individuals to be trained. Site visits during supervision show that
trainers and trainees are of high caliber and that the centers are producing a high caliber of professional
graduates. The institutional strengthening subproject launched the CLINS which is linked to all provinces
and municipalities, and helped develop a unified examination for lawyers, judges and procurators.

During project implementation there was, however, a strong emphasis by the project entities on monitoring
investment inputs and physical outputs rather than consequent outcomes. The absence of outcome
indicators in the project design ­ a common feature of TA projects, which were designed at a time when
such indicators were not required by Bank policy ­ made it difficult to undertake a complete assessment of
the project outcomes. This was and is a design weakness in the project but one that the Bank supervision
teams sought to overcome by trying to retrofit the project with outcome indicators. However, in view of
GOC's inability to focus on such outcomes at a time when its mandate was to ensure the drafting and
enactment of an enormous number of laws ­ 152 in the 1993-1998 legislative agenda alone ­ and the
challenges faced by development agencies generally in establishing a robust and viable monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) system for their support of legal reform projects, an adequate M&E system was not put
into place for this project, thereby hampering a complete assessment of the project's outcomes and
achievements. Development of a robust M&E system for legal reform projects will be needed in order for
the Bank to be able to fully evaluate these kinds of projects in future.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Legislative Component (US$ 5.5 million MOP, US$ 6.6 million Actual)
The overall rating for this component is satisfactory. This component supported the preparation of laws
(and their implementing regulations) included initially in the NPC's legislative agenda and subsequently
also in the State Council's legislative agenda. By the end of the project, this was the largest component and
the one, with its support for the drafting more than 50 laws presented to the NPC, which is likely to have
the largest impact and greatest sustainability. The design of this component, with its adaptable structure, a
minimum of predetermined activities, an active and engaged Legislative Advisory Group (LAG) comprising
representatives of the key legislative agencies involved in China's legal reform, which identified the priority
economic legal reforms proposed for support under this component, and screening by the Bank of these
proposals to ensure their relevance to achieving the Project's objectives, allowed for the flexibility and
government ownership necessary for the successful outcome of this project component.

The component was designed to provide funding for the preparation and drafting of key economic laws that



                                                      - 4 -

were on the NPC's 1993-1998 legislative agenda. Annex 1 includes a list of the laws supported, which
spanned such basic laws necessary for a market economy as bankruptcy, property, contract, intellectual
property, etc. In 1993, when the project was identified and designed, China had embarked on a substantial
effort towards integration into the international economic system, but the agencies responsible for
developing the legal system necessary to underpin a market economy, in particular the NPC's drafting
committees, which were responsible for drafting some of the basic laws (e.g., Bankruptcy, Contract,
Property Laws), had virtually no exposure to international experience in the development of such a legal
system. An important aspect of this component was to increase the NPC's and the other drafting agencies'
contact with international legislative experience and to expand their exposure to international practice on
implementing new laws. The process of economic integration accelerated as China prepared for accession
to the World Trade Organization (WTO) and it became increasingly evident that China's economic legal
system needed further development to be fully compatible with and integrated into the international
economic legal system. The project also assisted those agencies involved in undertaking the necessary legal
reforms, including the State Council, to ensure compatibility with WTO requirements. It was the flexible
project design and its line-of-credit structure, with the strong and consistent leadership provided by the
LAG, that allowed the project to adapt to include the expanding legislative agenda of the State Council and
extend the project's timeline to deal with the challenges of accession to WTO.

The project was successful in providing the initial seed money to fund the up-stream feasibility reports and
research, international study tours and both domestic and international seminars necessary for good legal
drafts. This international experience allowed drafters to broaden and deepen their understanding of the
substantive legal issues involved in particular areas of law, to develop innovative solutions to issues with
which they were confronted and to adapt them to the Chinese context. The project increased input into the
legislative process from domestic and international specialists, other government agencies, the private
sector, and the general public through expanded use of seminars and development of internet means (such
as CLINS) for soliciting public comment during the legislative preparation process.       The richness of such
inputs as well as observations by officials during study tours supported under the Project of how other
countries solicit public comment, strengthened GOC's conviction of the importance of public participation
in the legislative process, which in turn was accompanied by an increased use of other means, such as the
media, for seeking public input in this process. The increased support of research allowed for more
extensive background work on the development of new laws, enhanced understanding by legislators of the
implications of particular legislative proposals, and reportedly, therefore, quicker approval by the NPC and
therefore an increased efficiency in the preparation of NPC legislation. Many of the research results and
information gathered during the study tours have been published in companion volumes to the draft laws so
that the information gathered is not lost.

Legislative drafters involved in preparing drafts unanimously reported that international study tours and the
broad exposure they afforded generally provided answers that enabled them to prepare draft laws that
better responded to real issues which in turn improved the likelihood of their passage and in some cases
accelerated the process of their enactment. For example, increased international exposure through study
tours and seminars allowed the drafters of the Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (SME) Law to resolve
internal debates on how to avoid subsidies to SMEs being seen as a regression to the old planned economy,
through loan guarantee funds for SMEs. Through their exposure to international experience, drafters of the
Bankruptcy Law modified their approach of treating bankruptcy merely as a means of liquidating
companies and decided to broaden the coverage of the law to incorporate "Chapter 11-type"
reorganizations. Drafters of the Anti-Monopoly Law, who themselves came from an economic background
of state-owned-enterprises (SOEs), through exposure to international practice and research, were able to
understand more clearly the effects that such monopolies can have on economic development and therefore
the necessity of legislation to deal with such effects. International exposure enabled drafters of the


                                                       - 5 -

Investment Funds Law to resolve an issue on the scope of its coverage that had festered for 2 ½ years,
thereby facilitating its enactment within the following 6 months.

The increased research and more in-depth analysis produced draft laws that contained greater substance
and clearer justification for their necessity, often based on more detailed and sophisticated legal and
economic reasoning. This, in turn, improved the legislative process by clarifying to legislators why the new
laws should be considered and passed. Some background research necessitated extensive expansion of
domestic research teams thus enlarging the pool of specialists in a given subject. During the drafting of the
Non-Government Education Law, the Ministry of Education (MOE) used between 20 and 30 PhD students
to survey the principals of some 70 non-government schools to solicit their views on the drafting of the law.
Some agencies reported that the international research that the project supported allowed the drafters of
new laws to approach economic law from the same point of view as the international legal community and
thus allow for a more efficient integration of China's economic law system into global economic system.
The international access afforded by the project has continued to be beneficial to the agencies drafting the
laws through continuing advice and counsel from foreign academic and governmental institutions with
whom GOC has established ongoing ties as a result of the project.

Equally important, the project firmly convinced the participating entities of the value of public participation
in the development of economic legislation. In surveys conducted at project completion, drafting entities
unanimously emphasized public participation as a key factor in strengthening the legislation supported
under the Project. According to these surveys, comments received from the public gave the drafters a
better understanding of practical issues that needed to be addressed in the laws, and at the same time
promoted greater understanding and buy-in by the public of the law under consideration. International
study tours also gave Chinese officials ideas of specific ways of promoting public participation. On one
study tour to Europe, for example, several provincial officials decided to recommend public hearings in
their provinces based on their observations during the trip. In addition, the project directly supported a
number of activities that increased public awareness of and participation in the legislative drafting process,
such as the web-based CLINS - on which OLA frequently posts selected draft laws of the State Council for
public comment, and which provides a venue for the public to seek answers from OLA on questions about
existing laws. This feature of CLINS has generated active public comment at both national and local levels
draft regulations such as those governing Real Property Management and Vehicle Taxation, and has
generated an active public internet-based discussion about the need for revisions to existing laws and
introduction of new laws.

Training Component (US$ 6.5 million MOP, US$ 2.6 million Actual)
The overall rating of this component is satisfactory. This component was designed to provide support for
activities that had either a broad impact on legal and other professional teaching, training or implementing
economic laws or demonstrated innovative approaches to meeting the changing needs of the legal profession
and legal system in the market economy. There were originally six training centers supported although one
­ the Beijing Lawyers Training Center (BLTC) (B-1) ­ was dropped because of concerns on the part of the
Center that it would not be able to repay the funds onlent by MOF during the early stages of project
implementation. Annex 1 sets out a list of the training institutions, which included three prominent law
faculties and the National Judges College which trains judges across China.

The training program financed purchases of law library books and other reference materials as well as
computer and on-line legal databases; construction of moot court and multi media language laboratory
facilities; editing and publishing a series of textbooks for lawyer training; establishing computer rooms for
law students, faculty and staff; consultant services for domestic and international legal experts; and
international study tours on international economic law.


                                                       - 6 -

The largest aggregate expenditure in the training component (54 percent) for the three lawyer training
programs was for library materials and databases and online legal reference materials. Approximately
120,000 Chinese and foreign language books were purchased by the three law schools providing lawyer
training. It is evident that these materials are well integrated into the university law schools that host the
training programs and enjoy broad and effective use among law school faculty, staff and students, and in
some cases, legal professionals with computer access to the on-line facilities. At the Shanghai Institute of
Foreign Trade (SIFT) the Chinese language online legal reference materials, books and data bases are
available to some 50,000 students from the six universities which are situated in the same "academic city"
as SIFT. Some databases, Lexus/Nexus in particular, have to be maintained on an annual or biannual
basis and it is not clear whether the budgets of the law schools will be able to sustain such costs over the
long run. However, this is now an important asset for those institutions with established international
economic law programs and adequate budget resources will have to be found at the institutional level to
ensure continued access to this investment.

The lawyer training programs at the three institutions offering these courses have expanded due to
increased project investments. Approximately 34,000 person hours of training were delivered by the three
universities. In Hubei Province for instance, Wuhan University has been able to offer short (2-3 day) and
medium term (one-two week) courses four to five times a semester instead of the pre-project one or two
times a semester. Faculty who teach at the training programs have had increased exposure to international
economic law derived from international study tours, seminars with international legal specialists and
access to both new library and on-line materials. New training methods derived from increased
international exposure of faculty have been used in the programs with greater emphasis on use of case
methodology. At one university, domestic law faculty began using more case study methods in their law
school classes after having been exposed to concrete legal problems confronted by practitioners
participating in their continuing legal education courses. Provincial lawyers' associations in both Hubei
and Jilin Provinces have taken an increased responsibility for the development of training materials and
organizing the training courses.

The law school teaching and research programs were upgraded by increased access to new reference
materials, electronic books and data bases, the introduction trial experience which came from moot court
practice, the increased use of cases in the delivery of class material, and bilingual teaching supported by
foreign language reference materials. Over the period of the project the training programs shifted their
focus on short term skill-upgrading training of lawyers to long term lawyer training in law school
programs. This evolution, although not fully envisioned at the start of the project, does reflect the evolution
of law education in China over the last ten years with greater and greater emphasis on producing a new
cadre of highly trained law students with specialties such as, in the case of the law programs supported by
this project, international economic law.

However, some problems were also evident in the training programs. There was no systematic way in
which the participating institutions could share experiences and learn from each other. The training
programs could well have benefited from both a pre-determined annual joint training program review
meeting to share common experiences and an umbrella coordinating committee similar to the Legislative
Advisory Group which could have helped on substantive issues such as support for curriculum
development and teaching methodology reform.

Institutional Support Component. (US$ 1.3 million MOP, US$ 3.3 million Actual)
The overall rating for this component is satisfactory. The OLA developed the CLINS
(www.chinalaw.gov.cn) that has Chinese and English abstracts of laws, regulations, policy measures and


                                                       - 7 -

judicial interpretations. Provinces, directly administered cities and large cities (approximately 100) have
been provided with the necessary equipment and training to access the network. In developing the lawyers'
examination system, MOJ not only provided a systematic means of assessing lawyer qualifications, but
also became convinced (through, inter alia, a study tour supported by the project) that this examination
should be expanded to serve as a unified examination system for lawyers, judges and procurators. The
project was able to support this expansion, and the resulting unified examination system reportedly has
become the next most important exam in China, after the college entrance exam. This exam also has the
potential to become a cross-institutional mechanism to help agencies such as the MOJ and the Supreme
People's Procuracy take a more comprehensive approach to reform.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact was satisfactory. The drafting of laws and regulations supported by
the project played an important role in moving forward the NPC's legislative agenda. The project
supported drafting of approximately 50 pieces of legislation that are essential to the economic development
of China as well as China's accession to WTO. Key among the project-supported laws are: Contract Law,
Property Law, Guarantee Law, Partnership Law, Sole Enterprise Law, SME Law, Bankruptcy Law,
Anti-monopoly Law, Bidding Law, Insurance Law, Trust Law, Futures Market Regulations, Lawyer's
Law, Seeds Law, Clean Production Law, and Patent, Copyright and Agriculture Law revisions. The
project also supported five of the major institutions responsible for training legal professionals. The
trainers are of a high caliber and have produced approximately trainees representing 34,000 person/times
that are active participants within the Chinese legal system. OLA has established the CLINS database and
website "hits" show active and growing interest. Support for modernizing the Chinese lawyers'
qualification system led to a unified examination system which has become the second most important
exam in China, after the university entrance exam. This exam covers judges, procurators as well as
lawyers and has the potential for creating a cross-institutional mechanism to bring various institutions that
work on judicial reform together to take a more comprehensive approach to reform. In addition, the skills
gained by the legislative drafters, most of whom are still involved in the legislative process, from the
assistance provided under the Project, will continue to be applied to further legal reforms on NPC's
ongoing legislative agenda, as experience with the current framework leads to deepening reforms. Finally,
the international connections made during the drafting of laws and regulations as well as training will be
maintained long after completion of the project and will continue to enhance the legal community's ability
to draw on international experience and to facilitate China's integration into the global economy.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The 1997 Asian financial crisis shifted the NPCs legislative focus away from various sub-projects such as
bankruptcy to social protection laws and merger regulations and caused a slowdown in the implementation
process. With China's accession to the WTO the NPC refocused its legislative priorities to meeting WTO
requirements, which again affected project implementation. The events of September 11, 2001 and the
outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) in 2003 slowed implementation of some
sub-projects, which led to GOC requests for additional extensions.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:



                                                      - 8 -

China's political decision to move toward a society of laws to regulate the interaction of the State and its
institutions and peoples provided a fundamental basis for the design and implementation of the project. In
addition, strong government ownership throughout the project period contributed to satisfactory
implementation of the project. However, there were government policies that affected the progress of
implementation. China's accession to WTO created a new legislative agenda that prompted GOC to
request a project extension to support revision of laws and regulations to meet WTO accession
requirements. GOC also introduced civil service reform that reduced overall staffing levels for all national
ministries. The downsizing impeded the staffing of sub-projects as well as the MOF project administration
staff which in turn caused implementation delays and slowed development of new sub-projects.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Strong commitment and the effective problem solving demonstrated by MOF provided the foundation for
implementation to meet appraisal targets and the LAG actively helped to prioritize and provide guidance on
proposals to be submitted for project support. An unusual feature of this operation was MOF's agreement
reflected in the DCA to provide funds to entities funded from government budget on a grant basis.
Although it provided grant funds to the legislative agencies, MOF's unwillingness provide similar treatment
to government dependent training institutions resulted in the latter's reluctance to use Credit proceeds for
TA and slowed development of the pipeline of training subprojects. This problem diminished the
geographical coverage of the training programs, which both IDA and GOC had hoped to expand. The
training institutions were initially unfamiliar with, and consequently demonstrated a weak understanding of,
the Bank's procurement processes, especially in the hiring of international consultants. This resulted in
slower procurement and disbursement, a problem which could have been resolved by more active and
sustained involvement in the management training necessary for the project. In addition, MOF's initial
reluctance to provide grant funding to one government agency, OLA, for the CLINS delayed
implementation of this component by four years.

5.4 Costs and financing:
By the completion of the project, the project disbursed approximately SDRs 6.74 of the original 6.9 million
SDRs. The fluctuations of the US Dollar exchange rate with the SDR during the project as well as some
delays in project activities meant that the total amount of US Dollars disbursed from the credit was US$
9.43 million and not the US$10 million estimated at appraisal. Local Counterpart funds provided for the
project were approximately US$3.06 equivalent. The project was extended three times to ensure that all
project activities were implemented.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project sustainability is satisfactory. The project is sustainable primarily because the two major
investments, in library and electronic data sources and in human capital development are in place and will
continue to be used. The library and electronic data sources are fully integrated into law school libraries
and already being used broadly. In addition, OLA's CLINS is a database that is increasingly being used
by the public as well as government agencies. Funds for the continued use of these assets have been
ensured by university and law school administrators, and, in the case of CLINS, by the Government budget
although there is some concern about the continued support of the imported legal databases. Likewise,
faculty in law facilities and legislative drafters in government agencies who have benefited from seminars,
research opportunities, study tours and access to increased information systems, by and large remain in
their administrative systems and continue to play roles in teaching or drafting legislation. Salary budgets in
both universities and government agencies have risen in recent years and are thus more likely to act to
maintain institutional ties to these units.




                                                        - 9 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The investments were uniformly made in agencies of the government or training institutions supported by
the government and therefore the assets produced by these investments will continue to be financially
supported and used after the end of the project. Budget line items for research, seminars and international
study tours, although not substantial, are adequate to continue the work of the units. Likewise, university
budgets for both personnel and library resources and information systems, are increasing and therefore it
can be expected that the faculty, staff and information resources will continue to be used after the end of
the project.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
This was the Bank's first comprehensive legal TA project in China as well as the first stand-alone legal
TA project in the Bank. The project's focus on legal TA allowed IDA to support incremental steps
forward in drafting legislation and training legal personnel to support China's overall legal reforms. The
project also provided valuable access to relevant international experience which proved invaluable in the
drafting of legislation to support the GOC's legislative agenda. Bank lending provided incremental
additional funding for the challenges of reforming China's legal system as it moved toward a market
economy.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision has been robust, focused and diligent, identifying and resolving sub-project
implementation problems as well as procurement and financial management problems. Experienced Bank
legal staff as well as use of Bank Beijing office staff helped to solve procurement and financial
management problems, and brought both efficiencies and synergies to the supervision process. Bank staff
were able to interact with agencies undertaking drafting responsibilities and give specific advice on
selection of international consultants, (eg., advice from a French judge working for the Bank who helped
structure the judicial training program), entities to contact during study tours, (eg., associations with
specific roles in training and quality assessment of judges), and research methods which expanded the
perspective of the legislative drafters, (eg., a changed focus away from a controlling to an enabling legal
environment in the production of the Non-Government Education Law). Continuity throughout the Project
of the Bank's task team leader (TTL) in the face of several and often rapid changes among the
implementation staff within the MOF, legislative agencies and training institutions, proved to be invaluable
and virtually the only source of programmatic and administrative continuity for the project.

It should be noted however that the Bank's performance in providing adequate and timely advice on
international legal experts in highly specific areas at borrower request was almost totally dependent on the
knowledge and networks of the individual TTL. This highly idiosyncratic and burdensome method of
providing access to the best international advice on complex issues is a weakness of the current Bank's
administrative structure where operational units can routinely call upon their own Bank network nodes to
provide such information in a systematic way, insulated from personal bias and subject to good quality
control. In future, design and supervision of legal reform projects will need to be supported by systematic
access to such useful advice and information. A comprehensive database of international legal experts
launched in 2002 is being developed to meet this need.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. In lending activities, comprehensive teams were fielded
with the appropriate expertise to develop a project that was not overly ambitious but was relevant and
attainable in the context of law reform in China. The lawyer responsible for preparation of the project



                                                      - 10 -

continued to provide advice throughout the 10 years of supervision, and several consultants who had
assisted with the preparation were also called upon throughout this period, all of which provided strong
continuity. In addition, supervision missions included the required expertise and local staff monitored
project activities when necessary. In one case, use of a technology expert helped not only to guide OLA ­
which had never previously worked with the Bank ­ speedily and efficiently through the intricacies of the
ICB procurement process necessary for an appropriate network for CLINS, but also to convince MOF of
the necessity of funding this component on a largely grant basis.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's performance in preparation was satisfactory. The agencies concerned with preparation of
the initial series of subprojects in the legislative area provided sufficient analysis of the legislative needs,
and there was good cooperation with the training needs assessment team. Several potential training
sub-projects were prepared, though not all were finally accepted. The key areas for project implementation
were the borrowing, on-lending/on-granting and project implementation arrangements. MOF undertook
considerable efforts within the ministry and with key agencies to reach agreement on MOF's responsibility
for repayment of the credit, on the project coordination mechanisms (LAG, training experts and local legal
consultant for MOF) and on the terms on which the credit proceeds were passed on to implementing
agencies.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
As noted above, implementation was generally good with a high degree of governmental commitment to the
support of economic law reform, initially at the level of the legislature, the NPC, and at the level of the
executive branch, the State Council, and by the end of the project, by the judiciary as well. GOC's ongoing
commitment for the efficient and effective implementation of the project is best illustrated by the important
role that the LAG played in reviewing the project's progress against the background of a rapidly evolving
political and economic environment, reassessing the project's priorities and time scale and deciding on
priority areas of law to be supported; and accelerating the pace of sub-project review in the face of the
growing demands of bringing China's legal system in line with the needs of the accession process into
WTO. The LAG's membership which represented the NPC, the SC, the MOF and other agencies supported
by the project provided a good forum for semi-annual reviews and assessments of project implementation.
GOC's strong and continuing commitment to the work of the LAG demonstrates the good quality of the
government's implementation performance. The quality of this commitment is also demonstrated by the
agencies' involvement of local experts knowledgeable in the country's legal system and economic goals eo
ensure preparation of legislative drafts that effectively addressed real needs for China to move to a market
economy, as well as by the selection of top legal training institutions to develop and provide training.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The MOF was the primary coordinating, financial oversight and management agency for approximately 20
sub-project implementing agencies. They performed the task well so that in the end, the project produced
impressive results which can be judged to have good outcomes and be sustainable. The MOF was well
positioned in GOC's hierarchy to perform the project coordinating and oversight role and had both the staff
talent and administrative gravitas to be able to carry out this role. At the Project launch and mid-term,
MOF, with Bank assistance, provided procurement and disbursement training to interested subproject
entities. However, several issues hampered the MOF's ability to carryout this role at the highest possible
levels. Part way through the project, the government's civil service reforms cut back the overall MOF staff
by half which had an effect on the amount of time that MOF staff could devote to the implementation of the
project. This in turn made it more difficult for the MOF to provide adequately the necessary ongoing
procurement and disbursement training to sub-project entities as they joined the Project, which had an



                                                        - 11 -

impact on the timeliness and accuracy of some of these procedures. The inadequate number of MOF staff
responsible for the implementation of the project was partly resolved when, at the request of the Bank TTL,
the MOF hired outside Chinese consultants to manage project implementation, at which point things
improved. Unfortunately, a relatively high turnover of such consultants hindered continuity in this aspect
of project support.

During implementation of the project the MOF insisted that project entities not supported by government
budgets receive Credit funds on an on-lending basis. Although initially agreement was reached on
providing such entities with grant funding, during implementation MOF followed the practice prevailing
under other Bank supported projects in China of requiring the entities to repay the funds provided to them.
This quickly became an implementation issue for the universities providing lawyer training, many of whom
were unable to assume the debt burden, and hindered the geographical expansion of the lawyer training
programs into poorer areas, to the extent envisioned during project preparation.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower's performance, when measured against the project objectives, is good with a high degree
of success in all components. It should be noted, however, that the project lacks easily monitorable
indicators and robust baseline data upon which to make a carefully balanced assessment of project
outcomes.

8. Lessons Learned

l Country ownership is key if a legal reform project is going to be successfully implemented.

l The lack of a robust monitoring and evaluation system and its dependent baseline data deprive
    otherwise good projects of the possibility of being systematically reviewed and its performance judged.
    The Bank's international experience should be used to create such an M&E system for legal reform
    projects.

l Establishing Legal Advisory Groups with a broad range of institutional representation is important for
    targeting use of grant resources based on a country's legislative agenda.

l Establishing a Training Advisory Group would have benefited the training sub-projects in their efforts
    to share useful experiences, develop reformed law curricula and teaching methodologies and expensive
    international consultants.

l Bank staff managing legal reform projects need access to a comprehensive database of experts across
    legal disciplines upon which they can rely for help and advice. This is a structural problem in the
    Bank's system which needs to be addressed for the Bank to offer first rate international experience on
    complex legal reform activities.

l The borrower's involvement of drafters and advisers in the legal drafting process who have knowledge
    of the country's legal framework is essential to translate successfully international experience into
    relevant domestic laws.

l Legal reform projects must offer flexibility while not being overly-ambitious. Careful attention must
    be given to what is relevant and attainable in the context of a country's legal reform agenda. Projects
    offering grants can provide useful assistance in the drafting of priority legislation.

l Flexibly designed projects with long implementation periods give the Bank an opportunity to support
    the deepening and expansion of a country's legal reform efforts (such as moving from working on the
    legislative framework to its implementation through the judiciary). At the same time these projects run
    the risk of changes in implementation staffs. While this is inevitable, the primary implementing agency



                                                    - 12 -

     must continue to provide the necessary project management training, especially in procurement and
     disbursements, if the pace of the project implementation is not to be affected.

l Projects that build institutional capacity and utilize existing government structures for implementation
     have a greater chance of success, as compared to projects that rely on independent stand-alone
     implementation units.

l Upstream training for new implementing agencies in project management, including the Bank's
     procurement and disbursement procedures, is essential for smooth Project implementation.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Background. Since the end of 1970's, the GOC has carried out the well-known market-oriented economic
system reform. In 1982, the general goal of China's economic development during the 20 years from 1981
to the end of 20th century was set as doubling the whole country's annual industrial and agricultural output
with economic benefits increased. In 1987, full-scale reform and opening to the world was identified as an
important part of long-term guidelines followed through the period of preliminary stage of Socialism.

Since 1980, the World Bank has specified the basic goal of its Country Assistance Strategy for China as
supporting analytic and material assistance to China's economic reform and modernization. Building a
sound legal environment for economic development is among the main components of such a support.

In 1992, the GOC put forward as the goal of economic system reform the establishment of the socialist
market economic system, in order to further liberate and develop productivity. It also put forward that
strengthening the legislation work, with special attention to formulating and perfecting those laws and
regulations on guaranteeing reform and opening to the world, strengthening macroeconomic administration,
and regulating microeconomic actions, was the urgent requirement for establishing the socialist market
economic system. Under these new circumstances, the World Bank approved the GOC's application for
credit financing to implement the Economic Law Reform Project, with greatest priority given to developing
a legislative agenda for the socialist market economy that would ensure that scarce legislative resources
were directed at the economic problems of the greatest urgency and importance.

Comments on Project Objective. The objective of Economic Law Reform Project is to support the GOC
to prepare important economic laws and regulations, train law teachers, legal practitioners and legal,
judicial and other government personnel in the theory and practice of a new legal framework, and
strengthen the capacity of key institutions responsible for legislation and the implementation of economic
laws to accelerate the legal framework for economic reform.

Revision of the objective: No revision happened to the objective during the project implementation because
it is suitable for the GOC's policies to perfect its legal framework for deepening its economic system reform
and promoting its economic development..

Comments on Project Design. As designed, the total cost estimation of Economic Law Reform Project
financed by World Bank credit is US$10,000,000 equivalent. The project consists of 3 components. The
first component is the Legislation Component, with a cost estimation of US$5,500,000 equivalent financed
by World Bank credit. The second component is the Training Component, with a cost estimation of
US$6,500,000 equivalent financed by World Bank credit. The third component is Institutional Support
Component, with a cost estimation of US$1,300,000 equivalent financed by World Bank credit.




                                                       - 13 -

During project appraisal, only 11 subprojects were approved, including seven with a cost estimation of
US$1,865,333.51 equivalent financed by World Bank credit under the first component, one with a cost
estimation of US$400,000 equivalent financed by World Bank credit under the second component, three
with a cost estimation of US$2,200,000 equivalent financed by World Bank credit under the third
component. They are as follows:

No.                                   Sub-Project Title                    Subproject Implementation Agency
Legislative Component
                   1                  Contract Law and Property Law        NPC Committee of Law Affairs
                   2                  Bankruptcy Law, Trust Law,           NPC Economic and Financial
                                      Partnership Law, Sole Enterprise     Committee
                                      Law, Foreign Change Law, Taxation
                                      Basic Law, Futures Law and
                                      State-owned Assets Law
                   3                  Anti-monopolization Law              State Economic and Trade
                                                                           Commission
                   4                  Shares Cooperation Enterprises Law State Council Office for Restructing
                                                                           Economic System
                   5                  Lawyer Law                           Ministry of Justice
                   6                  Accounting Law, Management           Ministry of Finance
                                      Regulations on Levies by Government
                                      Administration Agencies, Regulations
                                      on Government Procurement
                   7                  Anti-dumping Regulations,            Ministry of Foreign Trade and
                                      Anti-subsidy Regulations,Safeguard   Economic Cooperation
                                      Measurement Regulations, Foreign
                                      Trade Agent Regulations
Training Component
                   1                  Economic Law Training                International Management and Trade
                                                                           Institute
Institutional Component
                   1                  Establishing the Database of Foreign NPC Committee of Law Affairs
                                      Legislations
                   2                  Establishing China's Network System State Council Office of Legislative
                                      of Legislation Information           Affairs
                   3                  Improving Lawyer Examination         Ministry of Justice
                                      System


During project implementation, the World Bank and MOF continuously approved 43 new sub-projects,
including 35 under the first component, six under the second component, and two under the third
component. See Annex 1 of this report for more details.

In general, the project design was reasonable and feasible. The World Bank and MOF fully absorbed the
experiences summarized from other completed or implementing similar technical assistance projects during
project appraisal, and meanwhile, fully considered China's real need of law system and environment
construction with an aim to provide a strong support to and guarantee the sound development of China's
economic reform and opening to the world. A highly flexible arrangement for project implementation was
also made to enable the contents and progress of the project implementation to keep harmonized with the
process of China's economic development and international economic integration. However, on the other
side, the flexibility put forward a higher requirement for project management and coordination capability,



                                                      - 14 -

not only for MOF, but also for the World Bank.

Realization of Project Objectives. General speaking, the project objective has been substantively
realized. All the sub-project objectives were closely related to the project objective and elaborated on it
well, all of which have been realized too.

Under the Legislation Component, a total amount of approximately US$5 million equivalent financed by
World Bank credit was utilized to support 41 sub-projects, including nine sub-project implemented by
NPC, 32 sub-project implemented by State Council agencies and ministries such as State Council Office of
Legislative Affairs, MOF and MOJ. Objectives of the subprojects covered fields of macro-economic
management, finance, banking, taxation, planning, social security, SOE reform, SME development,
agriculture, poverty alleviation, transportation, education, resource protection, foreign trade, domestic
trade, and etc. All the fields covered were among the Chinese Government's development and reform
priorities. For example, the Contract Law is the basis of market operation, the Anti-dumping
Regulations and the Anti-subsidy Regulations are guarantee for healthy development of foreign
trade sector, the Tendering and Bidding Law plays a key role in enlarging the transparency of
market competition, the CPA Law and the Lawyer Law strictly regulates the actions and
responsibilities of CPAs and lawyers, the most important two intermediates in the life of market
economy.

Under the Training Component, a total amount of approximately US$2 million equivalent financed by
World Bank credit was utilized to support seven sub-projects, including five sub-project implemented by
universities and training institutes, one subproject implemented by State Council Office of Legislative
Affairs, and one sub-project implemented by NPC. Both the general training on economic law conducted by
the universities and institutes, and the specific training on WTO regulations conducted by State Council
Office of Legislative Affairs and NPC, were very necessary for enhancing the quality of law preparation
and execution, which is among the key ways to construct a good legal environment for the establishment
and perfecting of China's socialist market economy.

Under the Institutional Support Component, a total amount of approximately US$2.5 million equivalent
financed by World Bank credit was utilized to support five sub-projects, including one sub-project
implemented by NPC, three sub-projects implemented by State Council agencies and ministries, and one
sub-project implemented by the Supreme People's Court. Database development, information system
construction and management research were the key contents of the component. The implementation of the
sub-projects is very helpful for strengthening the management capability related to legislators, government
officials, lawyers and judges.

Project Output. The project outputs are satisfactory. A lot of research, study tours, trainings, seminars
and good procurement activities were successfully completed by the sub-project agencies, based on the
proposals and plans agreed by the World Bank and MOF.

Under the Legislation Component, project outputs included the following:
    i) Draft Laws and Regulations. With reference to international legislation experiences learned from
    consultant services, overseas study tours and international seminars, more than 50 draft laws and
    regulations were completed during the project implementation. Some of them have been enacted, like
    the Contract Law, the Accounting Law, the SME Promotion Law, the Auction Law and the Investment
    Fund Law, and some of them are still under reviewing, like the Property Law, the Bankruptcy Law, the
    Western Region Development Basic Law and the Government Investment Regulations.



                                                       - 15 -

    ii) Seminars on law system and environment construction. Four high-level seminars were held, and
    many helpful suggestions and recommendations on how to establish a sound law system for economic
    development were submitted to NPC and State Council agencies and ministries.

Under the Training Component, project outputs included the following:
    i) Training Conditions Improved. For the five universities and training institutes, many training
    curriculum and training courses were developed, a batch of law library books and reference materials
    were purchased (about 120,000 foreign-language and Chinese books were purchased by the law
    schools of Jilin University, Wuhan University and Shanghai Foreign Trade Institute), several
    small-sized information systems were established.
    ii) Government officials and professionals trained. Training delivered by the three law schools
    amounted to approximately 34,000 person-times for various government officials and professionals. A
    lot of government officials and enterprise managers were trained in the Institute of International
    Management and Trade, a lot of judges and court management officials were trained in the National
    Judge Institute, and more than 100 government officials participated in the training activities organized
    by NPC and State Council Office of Legislative Affairs respectively.

Under the Institutional Support Component, project outputs included the following:
    i) Database developed. A database of foreign legislation information was successfully established by
    NPC, with enormous information in English and Chinese. The legislators in NPC can easily find useful
    references from the database.
    ii) Information system established or upgraded. MOJ upgraded the National Lawyer Examination
    System managed by it and on the basis established a unified examination system for lawyers, judges
    and procurators. The Supreme People's Court established a judge management system.

Institutional Development Impacts. During the project implementation, all the subproject implementation
agencies' capacities were strengthened. They absorbed useful legislation, training and management
experiences and techniques. The quality and efficiency of legislation were obviously enhanced.

All the laws and regulations drafted during the project implementation were listed in NPC and State
Council's legislation agendas. They have played or will play a very important role in promoting the
development of China's economy. Such a role is a deep and long-term role, will run through the whole
process of establishing and perfecting China's socialist market economy. By drafting or participating in
drafting the laws and regulations, concerned government agencies have to review their management
practice in the past, accept new management concept, use new management tools, and further regulate their
management actions. This is a very important element for successful transition from "a country governed
by men" to "a country governed by law".

The quality of legislators, officials, judges, lawyers and professionals and the transparency of legislation
and execution are other two elements for the above transition. Without any doubt, the effect of training is
obvious. For example, the training on WTO regulations organized by NPC for local PCs' officials under
the project is very rare for them. Meanwhile, developing databases and establishing information systems
have been considered as very good methods to enlarge transparency. Especially, establishing information
systems provides more opportunities for public participation in legislation. Such participation has been
convinced as another force for enhancing the quality of legislation.

Key Factors Effecting on Project Implementation and Outcomes. Key factors affecting project
implementation and outcomes are: nature of technical assistance projects financed by World Bank credit,
the GOC's continuous requirements for deepening economic reform and enlarging opening up to the outside


                                                     - 16 -

world, reorganization and staff adjustment, natural and man-made disasters. The effects of these factors are
both positive and passive.

TA projects are always designed as umbrella projects so that their implementation can easily reflect any
adjustment made on the China's reform program, for they attach more importance on macro-management.
A large proportion of credit was unallocated during project appraisal, and most of the subprojects were
identified and approved during project implementation on a case-by-case basis. From the positive side, such
a situation gave a large flexibility to project implementation. For example, once NPC or State Council
defined a new legislation agenda based on the requirements of deepening economic system reform,
concerned credits could be promptly allocated to support the drafting work of the proposed economic laws
and regulation. However, from the passive side, such a situation brought high uncertainty to project
implementation. More adjustments hindered timely allocation of credit in accordance with designed
progress and plan, so that project implementation was delayed. The closing date was extended from original
June 30, 2000 to June 30, 2004 (4 years in total).

In 1992, the GOC began its process of establishing the socialist market economy. From 1992 to 1996, it
adopted a series of reform promotion measures, preliminarily established the framework of
macro-economic administration. From 1997 to 2001, it preliminarily established socialist market economic
system, continued to deepen reform in the fields of finance, taxation, banking, housing and government
reorganization. After 2002, the Chinese government put forward its strategic development goal in the first
20 years of the 21st Century as roundly constructing a well-off society, and mapped out a plan for building
up a perfected socialist market economic system and a more open, more vigorous economic system. Such a
situation put forward more requirements for legislation and law environment construction, and assured the
demand of credit, promoted the expansion of project outcomes and set a solid foundation for successful
project implementation. On the other side, the complexity of reform made passive effect on project
implementation. A lot of investigations and discussions work needed to be done again and again to ensure
the draft laws and regulations were in line with the reform progress and reflected the reform effects.

The 9/11 Disaster and SARS epidemic situation are main natural and man-made disasters that made largest
effect on project implementation and outcomes. Generally, the effect of such disasters is passive. It was an
important reason for delay of project implementation. After 9/11, for reasons of security, many legislators,
government officials and law researchers could not go abroad for study tour and training. The same
situation took place after SARS happened.

For MOF and subproject implementation agencies, several reorganizations happened during the project
implementation. Staff adjustment is always the output of the reorganizations. Its effect is passive to the
project implementation for it is very difficult to maintain a steady project coordination and subproject
implementation team. From this side, reorganization and staff adjustment was an important reason for
delay of project implementation.

Sustainability. The sustainability of Economic Law Reform Project is good. Firstly, the GOC considers
reform and opening up to the outside world as one of the three historic huge changes taken place in the
development process of China over the past century. The GOC clearly put forward that, combining
socialism with market economy, needs deepening reform and enlarging opening up. Therefore, the demand
for cooperation with World Bank on reform and institutional development is continuous and steady.
Constructing a sound legal environment for reform and economic development is one of the key contents of
the need.

Secondly, the umbrella-project design enhanced MOF and the subproject implementation agencies'


                                                     - 17 -

ownership in ascertaining subproject objectives and contents, so that the subproject outputs could meet real
needs, and produce continuous impacts in a certain period. The establishment of China Legislation
Information Network System is a very good case. Its role in perfecting China's legal system will be more
and more important in the future.

Thirdly, comprehensive quality and professional skills of the staffs related to legislation were improved
roundly and quickly, which created a solid talent foundation for future legal environment construction.
Officials from local PCs and Offices of Legislative Affairs participated in the training activities organized
by NPC and State Office of Legislative Affairs will become the backbone of strengthening the construction
of local legal environment.

World Bank and Borrower Performance. In general, the World Bank performance during project
implementation is satisfactory. They evaluated project and subproject objective based on the GOC's real
need, and designed a simple but effective procedure to review subproject proposals, in order to increase the
efficiency of project management. They regularly supervised the situation of project implementation, fully
considered the comments and suggestions put forward by Chinese side, and guided them to solve problems.
Meanwhile, they made full use of all possible methods and opportunity, such as subproject launching
workshop, training course, round-table discussion, telephone dialogue, to train the project coordination and
subproject implementation staffs on Chinese side on project management, procurement and disbursement,
in order to assure the quality of project implementation.

In general, MOF performance as the central project coordination unit during project implementation is
satisfactory. The ascertained the principles and emphases of utilizing the allocated credit according to the
GOC's overall requirements for reform and development, reviewed and discussed with the World Bank
about sub-project proposals, guided subproject implementation agencies to handle procurement and
disbursement formalities, managed the special account and accept auditing, organized project supervision
with the World Bank and prepared concerned project implementation plans and project progress reports.
Even though the closing date of the project was extended several times, the reasons for extension were
understandable, and the results of extension were suited for general requirements of the World Bank and
the GOC. Supervision and auditing results showed that, project contents kept close line with the project
objective, the quality of project implementation was guaranteed. The shortage on MOF side was that, they
could not assure the stability of project coordination and management staffs, to lower the possibility of
delay of project implementation.

Generally, subproject implementation agency performance during project implementation was satisfactory.
They prepared and submitted subproject proposals in strict accordance with the Management Regulations
of Economic Law Reform Project circulated by MOF, conducted every activity in strict accordance with
contents and objectives specified in approved subproject proposals, handled procurement and disbursement
formalities in strict accordance with the World Bank guidelines and handbooks, duly prepared and
submitted subproject implementation plans and progress reports, accepted concerned supervision and
auditing, undertook necessary measures to enlarge subproject impacts. Most of the subproject
implementation agencies could not give full consideration of training concerned subproject management
staffs to improve their management capability.

Experiences Learned. A strong government support is the first element for the success of the project
implementation. No strong government support, no loose macro environment and no active demand for
project implementation. These two aspects are very critical for a highly flexible project implementation.

A reasonable subproject design is the second element for the success of the project implementation. It


                                                     - 18 -

should include an innovative and clear subproject objective, and an operational subproject implementation
plan.

Establishing the Legal Advisory Group with a broad range of agency representation was testified as a good
way for the management of such a project. Comments and recommendations from the Group were very
helpful for sub-project selection and proposal finalization.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information

Throughout Project supervison, the Bank maintained regular contact with other multilateral, bilateral and
private agencies involved in supporting China's legal and judicial reform efforts. This project spawned a
series of semi-annual roundtables, hosted by different agencies, which are still regularly held. These
roundtables have served as a useful forum for sharing of information and ideas among donors. At the most
recent roundtable, hosted by the Bank in Beijing in January 2005, the lessons learned in this project were
discussed with GOC.




                                                    - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                                  Legislative Subprojects

  SUB-            AGENCY                 LEGISLATION                        STATUS - as of May 2004
PROJECT                                   SUPPLORTED
  A-1     Commission on             Contract Law              Enacted March 15, 1999; effective as of October 1,
          Legislative Affairs (CLA),                          1999.
          NPC                       Property Law              Draft of law under preparation.
                                    Guarantee Law             Enacted June 30, 1995; effective as of October 1,
                                                             1995.
  A-2     Economic and Finance      Bankruptcy Law            Draft law submitted to NPC Standing Committee in
          Committee (EFC), NPC                                1997, currently under revision.
                                    Futures Market Law        Draft law submitted to NPC Standing Committee;
                                                              interim regulations issued.
                                    State Assets Management   Draft law submitted to NPC Standing Committee in
                                    Law                       1997, currently under revision.
                                    Foreign Exchange Control Draft law submitted to NPC Standing Committee in
                                    Law                      1996.
                                    Partnership Law           Enacted February 23, 1997; effective as of August 1,
                                                              1997.
                                    Sole Enterprise Law       Enacted August 31, 1999; effective as of January 1,
                                                              2000.
                                    Trust Law                 Enacted April 28, 2001; effective as of October 1,
                                                              2001.
                                    Basic Tax Law             Draft of law under preparation.
  A-3     State Economic and Trade Anti-monopoly Law          Draft law reviewed by State Council; currently under
          Commission (SETC)                                   revision.
  A-4     State Council Office for  Shareholding Cooperative  Draft of law submitted to State Council; interim
          the Restructuring of the  Enterprise Law            "Guiding Suggestions on Establishing Urban
          Economic System                                     Shareholding Cooperative Enterprises" circulated.
          (SCORES)
  A-5     Ministry of Justice (MOJ) Lawyers' Law &            Enacted May 15, 1996; effective as of January 1,
                                    Implementing Rules       1997.
  A-6     Ministry of Finance       State Debt Law            Draft of law under preparation.
          (MOF)                     Enterprise Income Tax Law Draft submitted to State Council; currently under
                                                             revision.
                                    Value Added Tax Law       [Same as above.]
                                    Business Tax Law          [Same as above.]
                                    Consumption Tax Law       [Same as above.]
                                    Resource Tax Law          [Same as above.]
  A-7     Ministry of Foreign Trade Foreign Trade Law         Anti-dumping and Countervailing Duty Regulations
          and Economic              Implementing Rules        issued March 25, 1997 by State Council.
          Cooperation (MOFTEC)
  A-8     State Economic and Trade Trade Secrets Protection   Draft law submitted to State Council; currently under
          Commission (SETC)         Law                       revision.
  A-9     SETC                      Chambers of Commerce      Draft law submitted to State Council; currently under
                                    and Industry Law          revision.
  A-10    SETC                      Company Law               Draft law reviewed by State Council, currently under
                                    Implementing Regulations revision.




                                                 - 20 -

  A-11      State Science and           Law on Conversion of        Enacted May 15, 1996; effective as of October 1,
(Cancelled) Technology Council          Scientific and              1996.
            (SSTC)                      Technological
                                        Achievements
  A-12      State Planning              Bidding Law                 Enacted August 30, 1999; effective on January 1,
            Commission (SPC)                                        2000.

  A-13      Ministry of Internal Trade Auction Law                  Enacted July 5, 1996; effective as of January 1, 1997.
            (MIT)
  A-14      Ministry of Civil Affairs   Social Relief Law           Draft of law submitted to State Council in 1999.
            (MCA)

  A-15      China Insurance             Insurance Law and           Enacted June 30, 1995; effective as of October 1,
            Regulatory Commission       Implementing Regulations 1995; rules on administration of domestic and foreign
            (CIRC)                                                  insurance companies/institutions issued in 2000 and
                                                                    1999, respectively.
  A-16      National Copyright          Copyright Law                Draft amendments submitted to NPC Standing
            Administration (NCA)                                     Committee in December 1998;
                                                                     Amended October 27, 2001.
  A-17      State Intellectual Property Patent Law                   Enacted August 25, 2000; effective as of July 1, 2001.
            Office (SIPO)                                           New Implementing Regulations and Regulations on the
                                                                    Application of Law effective as of July 1, 2001.
  A-18      Environmental Protection Law on Resource                 Draft of law under preparation.
            and Resource                Conservation
            Conservation Committee
            (EPRCC)

  A-19      SCORES                      International Seminar on     Seminar held in October 1997.
                                        China's Economic Legal
                                        System in the 21st Century
  A-20      SETC                        Regulations on Enterprise   Regulations submitted to, and under review by the
                                        Merger                      State Council. Under revision
  A-21      Office of Legislative       Regulations on Financial    Regulation abolishing illegal financial institutions
            Affairs (OLA), State        Supervision                 enacted June 1998; draft of regulation on closure of
            Council                                                 financial institutions under preparation.
  A-22      OLA                         Regulations on Collection    Draft of regulations under preparation.
                                        of Fuel Taxes
  A-23      SCORES                      Law Implementation           Seminar held in June 2000.
                                        Seminar
  A-24      SCORES                      Standardization of the Legal Seminar "Changing Role of Government Regulation in
                                        Environment Seminar          China's Market Economy" held in April 2001.
  A-25      Economic and Finance        Investment Funds Law         Draft of law under preparation. Draft revised to cover
            Committee (EFC), NPC                                    only securities investments.
  A-26      EFC                         Small and Medium            The SME Promotion Law was passed on Jun. 29, 2002
                                        Enterprise Law              and will become effective on Jan. 1, 2003.

  A-27      EFC                         Seeds Law                    Enacted July 8, 2000; effective as of December 1,
                                                                     2000.
  A-28      SETC                        Clean Production Law        Law approved by Standing Committee of NPC
                                                                    Effective as of 3/1/03
  A-29      Ministry of Education       Non-Governmental             Draft law under preparation.
            (MOE)                       Education Law




                                                      - 21 -

 A-31  EFC                     Bankruptcy Law Revisions Revisions under preparation.


 SUB-          AGENCY               LEGISLATION                       STATUS - as of May 2004
PROJECT                             SUPPLORTED
 A-32  Agriculture and Rural   Agriculture Law          Law approved on December 28, 2002
       Affairs Committee       Amendments               Effective as of 3/1/03
       (ARAC)
 A-33  MOF                     Agriculture Regulations  Draft legislation under preparation. Agricultural
                                                        Subsidy Regulation, Poverty Region Assistance
                                                        Regulations and Disaster Relief Regulation
 A-34  SDPC                    Western Development      Draft legislation prepared to be submitted early this
                                                        year. Outlined regulation a forestation submitted to SC.
 A- 35 MOF                     Vehicle and Ship Usage,  Draft legislation under preparation
                               Real Estate Tax and
                               Transfer Payments
 A-36  Economic and Finance    Venture Capital and      Draft law to be completed in May 2004.
       Committee (EFC), NPC    Enterprise Partnership
 A-37  Department of Economic Technical Regulation      Draft law reviewed by State Council, currently under
       Laws and Regulations,   System                   revision.
       SETC
 A-38  Department of Economics Corporate Closure        Draft law reviewed by State Council, currently under
       Laws and Regulations,   Regulations              revision.
       SETC
 A-39  OLA                     WTO Studies on           Studies underway
                               Transparency and
                               Administrative Review
 A-40  National Development andGovernment Fixed Assets  Subproject approved in February 2004
       Reform Commission       Investment Regulation
       (NDRC)
 A-41  MOF                     Treasury Law and Budget  Subproject approved in February 2004
                               Law
 A-42  OLA                     Public Participation in  Subproject approved in February 2004
                               Legislation: Emergencies




                                             - 22 -

 SUB-         INSTITUTION                                      PROJECT DESCRIPTION
PROJECT
  B-1  Beijing Lawyers' Training
       Center, Beijing Bar Association
       (cancelled)
  B-2  International Business         To provide training in foreign economic and trade laws and conventions.
       Management Institute (Beijing) Trainees include Chinese embassy and consulate staff, executives from
                                      large and medium enterprises, members of International Commercial
                                      Arbitration Center and participants of the Third-Five-Year-Plan of Law and
                                      Regulation Popularization Program of MOFTEC.
  B-3  Deheng College of Law, Jilin   To provide intensive training to students (at both undergraduate and
       University                     graduate levels) and lawyers in Northeast China, through investment in
                                      basic teaching equipments, textbook writing, and the establishment of a
                                      national center for jurisprudence which will set the standard for quality legal
                                      education.
  B-4  Law School, Shanghai Institute To provide training in international economic law to judges, administrative
       of Foreign Trade               officials, legislators, lawyers, and executives in East China, establish an
                                      information center and electronic reading room, and provide legal aid
                                      services over the internet.
  B-5  Law School, Wuhan University To provide legal professionals in South-Central China, through lecturing
                                      and out-of-class instruction, with legal training in economic laws and
                                      regulations in foreign trade and investment, judicial procedures, and
                                      international arbitration procedures.

  B-6  National Judges College        To provide comparative expertise to develop a new curriculum for reserve
                                      judges training, to highlight judicial practical knowledge, court trial skills
                                      and competence.
  B-7  WTO and Administrative         To provide training in WTO principles and U.S. administrative law, for
       Procedure Training (OLA)       staff members of OLA and similar offices at the provincial and local level.
  B-8  WTO Training (EFC)             To provide training in WTO principles, for staff members of NPC and
                                      similar offices at the provincial and local level


                     Institutional Strengthening Subprojects

 SUB-         INSTITUTION                                      PROJECT DESCRIPTION
PROJECT
  C-1  Commission on Legislative      To modernize the preparation and dissemination of legislative documents
       Affairs, National People's     at the NPC, and to improve access to comparative legal information through
       Congress (NPC-CLA)             a foreign legal data base.
  C-2  Office of Legislative Affairs, To establish a China Legislative Information Network System (CLINS),
       State Council (OLA)            which is a comprehensive database system of China's laws and regulations,
                                      in order to modernized the processing and management of legislative
                                      information, to support nation-wide legislative work, and to provide the
                                      general public with high-standard legislative information service.
  C-3  Ministry of Justice (MOJ)      To modernize the Chinese Lawyers' Qualification System, through a
                                      review of the data bank system established by the Ministry of Education,
                                      computerization of the grading system, and learning of experience from
                                      foreign bar examination systems.




                                               - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                           Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
                       Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Legislative Component                                         5.50             6.60
Training Component                                            6.50             2.60
Institutional Component                                       1.30             3.30

Total Baseline Cost                                          13.30           12.50
                          Total Project Costs                13.30           12.50
                   Total Financing Required                  13.30           12.50


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB            NCB                1        N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                             0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                             1.00           0.00          3.40          0.00        4.40
                                   (1.00)           (0.00)      (2.20)          (0.00)      (3.20)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00          6.30          0.00        6.30
Individual Consultants             (0.00)           (0.00)      (4.80)          (0.00)      (4.80)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00          2.60          0.00        2.60
Workshops, Study Tours             (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.00)          (0.00)      (2.00)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
   Total                             1.00           0.00         12.30          0.00        13.30
                                   (1.00)           (0.00)      (9.00)          (0.00)     (10.00)
1.Individual consultants, workshops, study tours

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                             0.00           0.00         0.00           0.00       0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                             1.27           0.00         3.13           0.00       4.40
                                   (1.27)          (0.00)       (1.98)         (0.00)      (3.25)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00         1.10           0.00       1.10
Individual Consultants             (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.89)         (0.00)      (0.89)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00         6.99           0.00       6.99
Workshops, Study Tours             (0.00)          (0.00)       (5.29)         (0.00)      (5.29)
5. Miscellaneous



                                                 - 24 -

                                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                               1.27               0.00             11.22             0.00             12.49
                                      (1.27)             (0.00)            (8.16)            (0.00)           (9.43)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



  Project Financing by Financer (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                            Percentage of
        Financer                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate                  Appraisal



                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.       CoF.      IDA       Govt.    CoF.
Chinese Government                          3.30                                  3.06                             93
IDA                            10.00                                 9.43                                94




                                                      - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              4/15/94                   4    PRINCIPAL COUNSEL (1),           S               S
                                             PRINCIPAL COUNTRY
                                             OFFICER (1), SENIOR
                                             ECONOMIST (1), LEGAL
                                             CONSULTANT (1)




 Appraisal/Negotiation
              6/26/94                   3    PRINCIPAL COUNSEL (1),
                                             SENIOR COUNTRY
                                             OFFICER (1), LEGAL
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              9/5/94                    2    PRINCIPAL COUNSEL (1),           S               S
                                             DISBURSEMENT OFFICER (1)

 Supervision

              12/06/1994                3    CON.(LEGAL EXPERT) (1);          HS             HS
                                             DIVISION MANAGER (1);
                                             TASK MANAGER (1)
              12/21/1995                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              06/11/1996                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              06/24/1998                1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             S               S
              01/29/1999                1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             S               S
              11/14/1999                1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             S               S
              02/01/2000                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             INFORMATICS SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              02/01/2000                1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             S               S
              04/18/2001                1    LAWYER (1)                       S               S
              12/18/2001                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             JUDICIAL REFORM (1);
                                             FRENCH JUDGE (1)
              06/07/2002                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             INFORMATICS SPECIALIST
                                             (1); LEGAL/JUDICIAL
                                             REFORM (1)
              06/19/2004                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             CHIEF COUNSEL (1); LEAD
                                             COUNSEL (1); JUDGE (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1)


 ICR
              10/08/2004                2     TASK TEAM LEADER (1),           S               S



                                              - 27 -

                                            OPERATIONS
                                            OFFICER-CONSULTANT
                                            (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    20                          126
  Supervision
  ICR                                    105                           401
  Total                                  125                           527




                                            - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

  List of Supporting Documents

  Legal Training and Education in the 1990s ­ An Overview and Assessment of China's Needs,
  by Professors William P. Alford and Fang Liufang, with the assistance of Lu Zhifang, January
  31, 1994

  The World Bank, Economic Law Reform Project: Memorandum and Recommendation of the
  President (No. P-6393-CHA), September 20, 1994

  The World Bank, China: Economic Law Reform Project: Technical Annex (No.
  IDA/R94-130), September 28, 1994

  IDA, Development Credit Agreement (No. 2654 CHA), between the Peoples Republic of
  China and the International Development Association, November 11, 1994

  Supervision Reports (Back-to-Office Reports, Aide-Memories, Form 590s, PSRs,
  Post-mission letters to Government):
     Initial Mission: July 1993
     Preparation Missions: October 1993, December 1993
     Pre-appraisal Mission: April 1994
     Supervision Missions: December 1994, June 1995, June 1996, October-November 1996,
     June 1998, January 1999, November 1999,         January-February 2000, December 2000,
     April 2001, August 2001, December 2001, April 2002, December 2002, December 2003,
     January 2004

  Subproject Proposals and approvals, Study tour and seminar Summary Reports, Work Plans,
  Progress Reports and Completion Reports for Suprojects A1 ­ A42, B1 ­ B8, C1 ­ C3

  The World Bank, Strategy for Bank Assistance for legal and Judicial Reform in China, by
  Ms. Lichtenstein & Judge Baissus, Legal Vice Presidency, December 10, 2002 (Draft)




                                           - 31 -

- 32 -

