Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2654 CHA
(Economic Law Reform Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 11, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2654 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 11, 1994, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Implementing Entity" means a department or agency of the Borrower or 
another legal entity responsible for the implementation of a specific Sub-project.
(b)
"MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, and any successor 
thereto.
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(d)
"Sub-project" means a specific technical assistance project to be 
implemented under Part A or Part B of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to six million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 6,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that  year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the  General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Page  3
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 1 and October 1 commencing April 1, 2005 and ending October 1, 2029. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on October 1, 2014 shall be one 
and one-fourth per cent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the  judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Part C of the Project through MOF and shall cause the Implementing Entities to 
carry out Parts A and B of the Project under the general supervision and guidance of 
MOF, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
legislative, training and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
Page  4
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account or payment 
out of the Special Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01.  The following event is specified as an additional condition to 
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower's State Council shall 
have approved the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Page  5
Cable address:
Telex:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Jin Liqun
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Nicholas C. Hope
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                    Credit              % of
                                   Allocated        Expenditures
                                 (Expressed in          to be
          Category              SDR Equivalent)       Financed
(1)       Goods                      1,860,000      100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures,
                                                    100% of local
                                                    expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 75%
                                                    of local
                                                    expenditures for
Page  6
                                                    other items
                                                    procured locally
(2)       Consultants'               3,100,000      100%
          services
(3)       Study tours                1,240,000      100%
(4)       Unallocated                  700,000
          TOTAL                      6,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR200,000 may be made 
in respect of Category (2) for payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after June 27, 1994.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods not 
exceeding $200,000 equivalent and for consultants' services not exceeding $15,000 
equivalent (except for the contracts referred to in Section II.2(a) of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement), and for study tours, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in improving the legal 
framework in China to support economic reforms by: (a) strengthening the preparation 
of economic legislation in priority areas; (b) enhancing training methods, curricula 
and opportunities for law teachers, legal practitioners and legal, judicial and other 
government personnel in the theory and practice of the new legal framework; and (c) 
strengthening the key legal institutions responsible for legislation and the
implementation of economic laws.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Preparation of Legislation
 
Carrying out of selected Sub-projects to prepare laws and their supplementary 
regulations and implementing rules which: (1) are included in the 1993-1998 five year 
legislative agenda of the Borrower's National People's Congress; and (2) support the 
development of a market economy. 
Part B:
Training
 
Carrying out of selected Sub-projects for the training of legal practitioners, 
law teachers, law students, legal, judicial and other government personnel and others 
in the new legal framework related to the market economy, which either: (1) have a 
broad impact on legal and other professionals teaching, training or implementing 
economic laws; or (2) demonstrate innovative approaches to meeting the changing needs 
Page  7
of the legal profession and the legal system in a market economy.
Part C:
Institutional Support
 
Strengthening key legal institutions for the preparation and implementation of 
the new legislation, including:
(1)
modernizing the preparation and dissemination of legislative documents at the 
National People's Congress, and improving access to comparative legal information;
(2)
extending a database of Chinese legislation to various levels of government; and
 
(3)
modernizing and computerizing the examination system for lawyers and introducing 
a national system of continuing legal education.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete 
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.  The 
bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the 
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price  to 
reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension.  
Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid 
evaluation.  With respect to each contract made subject to the Association's prior 
review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1(a) of this Section, the 
Association's prior approval will be required for (i) a first extension of the bid 
validity period if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days and (ii) any 
subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in  accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association, except that goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
Page  8
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.
Contracts for goods of a proprietary nature may be awarded after direct 
negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2. The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ, and 
shall cause the Implementing Entities to employ, consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the 
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and 
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the  Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, 
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts 
using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant 
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other 
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $15,000 
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Association review shall not apply: 
(a) to the first three contracts for consultants' services under each Sub-Project; (b)  
to the terms of reference for all other such contracts; (c) to single source selection 
of firms; (d) to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the 
Association; or (e) to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $15,000 
equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
Sub-projects under Parts A and B of the Project shall be selected in accordance 
with the criteria and procedures set forth below.
Page  9
(a)
The purpose and scope of each Sub-project, the method of its 
implementation and the specific allocation of proceeds of the Credit for such 
Sub-project shall be determined by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
(b)
Each Sub-project shall be designed to meet the criteria set out in Part A 
or Part B, as the case may be, of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and shall have no 
equally suitable financing available from the United Nations Development Programme or 
other external financing agencies.
(c)
The Borrower shall submit, for the Association's approval, the proposal 
for each Sub-project in a form satisfactory to the Association. Each such proposal 
shall include the following information:
(i)
a description of the proposed Sub-project, including a time 
schedule for, the 
purposes and objectives of, and the benefits 
expected from such Sub-project;
(ii)
a description of the role of the department, agency or entity to 
be designated as 
the Implementing Entity for the purpose of the 
implementation of the proposed 
Sub-project;
 
(iii)
a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of 
the proceeds of 
the Credit, including an estimate of the 
foreign and local costs of the proposed 
Sub-project broken 
down by major items and showing amounts to be financed by the 
Implementing Entity and out of the proceeds of the Credit, respectively, and an 
estimated disbursement schedule;
(iv)
the manner and form in which the allocated part of the proceeds of 
the Credit is 
proposed to be made available to the 
designated Implementing Entity, including the 
terms and conditions 
thereof;
(v)
the proposed selection procedures, qualifications, terms of 
reference and duration 
of service for any consultants to be engaged 
for the purposes of the proposed 
Sub-project;
 
(vi)
measures to be taken to comply with paragraphs 4(a) and (b) below; 
and
(vii)
such other information as the Association may reasonably request.
 
2.
(a)
The Borrower shall, upon approval of a Sub-project by the Association, 
promptly make the allocated part of the proceeds of the Credit available to the 
designated Implementing Entity in a manner and form and on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  Such terms and conditions shall include the 
provision of funds on a grant basis to any Implementing Entity funded from the 
government budget.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Part C of 
the Project available to the respective departments and agencies implementing said 
Part C on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including the 
provision of funds on a grant basis to any entity funded from the government budget.
3.
In order to assist MOF in carrying out its functions as the coordinating agency 
for the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that:
(a)
MOF shall employ a legal consultant to assist in the preparation, review 
and supervision of Sub-projects and in the coordination of Project activities, in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(b)
MOF shall convene meetings at least semi-annually of a legislative 
advisory group comprised, inter alia, of senior representatives of the National 
People's Congress Economic and Finance Committee, Commission on Legislative Affairs, 
the State Council Bureau of Legislative Affairs and the State Commission for the 
Restructuring of the Economic System, to provide guidance on the priorities and 
progress in the Borrower's legislative affairs in regard to Part A of the Project;
Page  10
(c)
MOF shall maintain a roster of experts in legal education and training, 
agreed with the Association, and shall ensure that each proposed Sub-project under 
Part B of the Project shall be  reviewed by at least three experts from said roster as 
part of the Sub-project approval process;
(d)
annual work Project plans for each calendar year, consolidating the 
proposed work plans under each Sub-project, shall be provided to the Association by 
October 31 of the preceding year, for its approval;
(e)
semi-annual progress reports shall be provided to the Association in 
accordance with Section 9.06 (a) (iii) of the General Conditions, by March 1 and 
September 1, in each year, for the six-month periods ending December 31 and June 30, 
respectively incorporating semi-annual Sub-project progress reports provided to MOF by 
the Implementing Entities; and
(f)
MOF shall undertake with the Association a review of the progress of and 
prospects for Project implementation by December 31, 1996.
4.
(a)
The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all reasonable measures to 
facilitate the work of consultants in the performance of their services for each 
Sub-project and make available to them all information relevant thereto.
(b)
The Borrower shall not permit the amendment or waiver of any material 
terms and conditions of employment of consultants employed for any Sub-project, of the 
grant of any material extension of time specified for the carrying out of any 
Sub-project, or the grant of any material extension of time or any approval of 
sub-contracts or modifications thereof, or the agreement to substitute personnel of 
such consultants, without the prior consent of the Association.  The Borrower shall 
promptly inform the Association if it proposes to suspend payments under or terminate 
any contract with such consultants.
(c)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association copies of: (i) the 
documents prepared by the consultants engaged for any Sub-project, including reports 
and drafts thereof; and (ii) the legislation prepared under Sub-projects under Part A 
of the Project, in such number as the Association shall reasonably request.
(d)
The Borrower shall establish arrangements and procedures, satisfactory to 
the Borrower and the Association, for supervising and directing the work of any 
consultants employed for Sub-projects and
reviewing the reports and recommendations of such consultants with the Association.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $900,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that, unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $300,000  until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $2,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
Page  11
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits, which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request 
or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports to be furnished to the  Association pursuant to said Section in respect 
of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
Page  12
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the  Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
