Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
DECISION STAGE 
Report No.:  54288 
 
Operation Name 
Moldova: Economic Recovery DPL 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Agricultural Trade (30%); Information Communication 
Technology (10%); Energy (10%); Education (10%); Finance and 
Private Sector (30%); Trade (10%) 
Project ID 
P112625 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MOLDOVA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
December 4, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 21, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 24
th
,
2010 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
POLITICAL CONTEXT:  After two fiercely contested elections, Moldova formed a new Government on 
September 25
th
,
2009.
The Government is an Alliance of liberal parties seeking integration with the EU.  
With a slim Parliamentary majority the Government failed for the second time in December to elect a 
President.  Another round of Parliamentary elections is expected between late 2010 and Spring of 2011. 
 
POLICY CONTEXT: The 
structural policy reform
 context is signaled in the new Government’s 
“Stabilization and Economic Recovery Plan”, and is sketched out in the subsequent “Government Resolution 
to remove administrative constraints to the business environment”, as stipulated in a vision statement for 
2009-2013 entitled “European Integration: Freedom, Democracy and Welfare” and re-stated in the more 
recent “Re-think Moldova” strategy document.  Bank engagement has helped to specify priority actions for 
economic recovery and competitiveness in the short and medium term.  The latter will be supported under a 
subsequent programmatic DPL series. 
 
The 
macro policy
 context is set by an IMF program supported by a three-year Extended Credit 
Facility/Stand-by Arrangement totaling SDR 369.6 million (equivalent to three times Moldova’s quota, about 
US$588 million).  The Fund Executive Board approved the program January 29, 2010.  The program has a 
strong fiscal emphasis. 
 
Moldova’s new Government inherited a difficult fiscal situation, linked to the impact of the crisis and to pre-
election related spending.  Immediately upon taking office on September 25
th
,
Government clarified how the 
global crisis had sharply rebalanced Moldova’s economy, and began planning their response. The 
Government prepared a crisis response plan –informed by discussions with the private sector, unions, civil 
society groups and the Bank, IMF and other development partners.  The `Economic Stabilization and 
Recovery Plan’, was launched at a joint Government & development partner retreat on October 19
th
,
2009.
The Retreat was chaired by the Prime Minister of Moldova and attended by the entire new Cabinet. 
 
RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT:  Bank engagement through a DPO builds upon our on-going 
dialogue with the new Government on stabilization and structural reforms, which was set out in the Bank 
publication “Policy Notes for the New Government”, published October 1st.   
Page  2
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
OBJECTIVE: The main 
objective 
of the short-term single tranche DPO is to adequately fund priority 
expenditures for economic recovery and social protection during fiscal correction, and lay foundations for a 
sustained post-crisis recovery through exports and private investment.    
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
This proposed operation replaces and scales up the third annual PRSC identified in the FY09-FY11 Country 
Assistance Strategy (CAS).  The proposed operation realigns World Bank policy based lending support to 
reflect the changed economic and political realities. The reform program supported by the operation; (i) aligns 
behind the policy shift signaled by a new Government, and (ii) responds to the new challenge of addressing 
the global crisis by complementing an IMF-supported program for fiscal correction with measures to improve 
the composition of the budget and structural measures to stimulate economic recovery.  The increase in 
funding from $10m to $25 million reflects the need for additional budgetary funding to smooth over fiscal 
correction of a deficit of 7 percent of GDP in 2009. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
In accordance with the Association’s operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01, 
Annex E), the operation is proposed to be placed in Category “C” and does not require an environmental 
assessment 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (incl. CRW) 
25 
 Total 
25 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Dino Merotto 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-1987  
Email: 
dmerotto@worldbank.org
Note: This information is provided for an evolving project. Certain components may not necessarily be included 
in the final project, while the scope and cost of other components may be adjusted. 
 
