Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4762-MD 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Economic Recovery Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 12, 2010 
 
Page  2
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated August 12, 2010, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
MOLDOVA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this 
financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken 
under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework.  
The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
sixteen million and six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
16,600,000) (variously, “Credit” and “Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
2
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is US Dollars. 
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the 
Recipient’s macroeconomic policy 
framework and
 
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any 
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely a situation 
has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part 
of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01.  
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
the Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in 
carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient’s 
macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after 
the date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
Page  4
3
6.02. The 
Recipient
’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 Cosmonautilor 
Street, 
7 
 277005 
Chisinau 
Republic of Moldova 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(37322) 221307 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
AGREED at Chisinau, Republic of Moldova, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA 
 
By /s/ Vladimir Filat 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Robert B. Zoellick 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The Recipient has allocated MDL 582.9 million for road maintenance in the 2010 
Budget through Law No. 138 dated December 29, 2009. 
 
2. 
The Government has adopted the Government Decision No. 167 dated March 9, 
2010 on the Regulation of the Use of Agricultural Support Fund Resources 
aiming to redirect the subsidy scheme to increase support for investment while 
reducing recurrent subsidies in the agriculture sector. 
 
3. 
To improve targeting accuracy of the new TSA and increase its coverage of the 
extremely poor segment of population, the Government has adopted Government 
Decision No. 37 dated February 2, 2010 that: (i) revises proxies system to 
improve targeting; (ii) ignores cadastre income for households consisting of 
exclusively elderly, disabled or children; and (iii) reintroduces income 
“disregard” in calculation of the household’s monthly income of applicants. 
 
4. 
To prevent Nominative Compensation from expanding at the cost of the new 
social assistance scheme, the Recipient has adopted: (i) Law No. 135 dated 
December 29, 2009 to freeze the level of Nominative Compensation for utilities 
payments for current beneficiaries and not introduce new beneficiaries; and (ii) 
Government Decision No. 19 dated January 19, 2010 to abolish child allowance 
of 54 MDL per child and integrate small child benefit into the new TSA. 
 
5. 
The Recipient has adopted Law No. 31 dated October 7, 2009 and Government 
Decisions No. 597 dated October 21, 2009 and No. 793 dated December 2, 2009 
to liberalize wine exports by: (i) abolishing restrictions on the exports of bulk 
wine, grapes for wine, and distilled wine; (ii) eliminating the certification 
requirement for each shipment of wine; (iii) eliminating the state trademarks on 
alcoholic products for export; and (iv) dissolving the independent agency 
“Moldova Vin” and delegating its functions to the Ministry of Agriculture and 
Food Industries. 
 
6. 
The Government has submitted to the Parliament a new Energy Efficiency Law 
through the Government Decision No. 306 dated April 23, 2010. 
 
7. 
The Recipient has ensured that ANRE established district heating tariff for the 
City of Chisinau at a level sufficient to allow “Termocom S.A.” to be current on 
its payables while implementing capital programs submitted in its tariff 
Page  6
5
calculation through Law No. 107 dated December 17, 2009 and ANRE Decision 
No. 364 dated January 14, 2010. 
 
8. 
The Recipient has ensured protection for poor segment of population from higher 
heating prices through the adoption of Law No. 15 dated February 26, 2010 for 
Social Compensations for the Cold Period of the Year 2010 and Government 
Resolution No. 162 dated March 5, 2010. 
 
9. 
The Recipient has implemented the de-monopolization of the cross-border fiber 
optic cable access through:  
 
(i) 
Issuance of the Government letter to MTIC dated January 29, 2010 and 
MTIC's letter to ANRCETI dated February 22, 2010 which provided 
formal confirmation of the legal rights of all licensed electronic 
communications service providers (ECSPs) to construct and operate 
cross-border telecommunications cable facilities; and  
 
(ii) 
ANRCETI’s letters of approval dated March 31, 2010 of two ECSP’s 
requests to construct and operate a cross-border telecommunications 
cable facility from permitted ECSPs. 
 
10. 
The Government has approved and submitted to the Parliament the amendments 
to the Law on State Registration of Companies No. 220 dated November 19, 
2007 to enable the Chamber of State Registration to become a one-stop-shop for 
registration for health, statistical and social insurance purpose through 
Government Decision No. 282 dated April 15, 2010. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing is allocated in a single 
tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the Financing.  The 
allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
 
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
16,600,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
16,600,000 
 
Page  7
6
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions
 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the 
Association is satisfied (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient, 
and (b) with the appropriateness of the Recip
ient’s macroeconomic policy 
framework. 
 
D. Deposits 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise 
agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Recipient State Treasury account with NBM; and 
 
2. 
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s 
budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for 
an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be cancelled. 
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010.
 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
 
Principal Amount of the 
Credit repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
 
On each 
March 15
 and 
September 15
 commencing 
September 15, 2020
 to and including 
March 15, 2030
5% 
_____________________________ 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  9
8
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  
Definitions
1. 
“ANRCETI” means the Recipient’s National Agency for Regulation of 
Electronic Communications and Information Technology established through the 
Government Decision No. 905 dated July 28, 2008. 
 
2. 
“ANRE” means the Recipient’s National Agency for Energy Regulation 
established through Government Decision No. 767 dated 1997. 
 
3. 
ECSPs means licensed electronic communications service providers. 
 
4. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group 
metals (except watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including 
Page  10
9
set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
6. 
“MDL” means Moldovan Lei which is the lawful currency of the Recipient. 
 
7. 
“MTIC” means the Recipient’s Ministry for Information Technology and 
Communications. 
 
8. 
“NBM” means the National Bank of Moldova. 
 
9. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to  
adequately fund priority expenditures for economic recovery and social 
protection during the fiscal correction period, while laying the foundation for a 
sustained post-crisis recovery though exports and private investments and set 
forth or referred to in the letter dated May 5, 2010 from the Recipient to the 
Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during its execution. 
 
Page  11
10 
 
10. 
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the 
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
11. 
“TSA” means the Government’s new Targeted Social Assistance Program which 
verifies eligibility based on income and proxy-means adopted in 2009. 
 
12. 
 “Termocom S.A” means the Recipient’s Chisinau Municipality owned stock 
company. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Page  12
11 
 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
 
