Page  1
(Draft )PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5284 
 
Operation Name 
Moldova: Economic Recovery DPL 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Agricultural Trade (30%); Information Communication 
Technology (10%); Energy (10%); Education (10%); Finance and 
Private Sector (30%); Trade (10%) 
Project ID 
P112625 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MOLDOVA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
December 4, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 10
th
,
2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 4
th
,
2010
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
POLITICAL CONTEXT:  After two fiercely contested elections, Moldova formed a new Government on 
September 25
th
,
2009.
The Government is an Alliance of liberal parties who stood for election under a 
promise of greater European Integration.  They have a slim Parliamentary Majority and have so far failed to 
convince members of the ousted Party of Communists to vote with them to elect a Liberal Alliance President. 
 
POLICY CONTEXT: The 
structural policy reform
 context is signaled in the new Government’s 
“Stabilization and Economic Recovery Plan”, and is sketched out in the subsequent “Government Resolution 
to remove administrative constraints to the business environment”, as stipulated in a vision statement for 
2009-2013 entitled “European Integration: Freedom, Democracy and Welfare”.  The exact details, 
prioritization and sequencing of actions under the plan are still being developed by the new Government – 
Bank engagement will help to specify actions into the medium term which will be supported under a 
subsequent programmatic DPL series. 
 
The 
macro policy
 context is set by an IMF program supported by a three-year Extended Credit 
Facility/Stand-by Arrangement totaling SDR 369.6 million (equivalent to three times Moldova’s quota, about 
US$588 million).  Moldova will use the equivalent of about US$186 million – its SDR allocation - as budget 
support in 2010.  The Fund expects the program to go to their Board in late January.  The program has a 
strong fiscal emphasis. 
 
Moldova’s new Government inherited a difficult fiscal situation, linked to the impact of the crisis and to pre-
election related spending.  Immediately upon taking office on September 25
th
,
the new Government of 
Moldova (a coalition of Liberal parties) clarified how the global crisis had sharply rebalanced Moldova’s 
economy, and began planning their response. The Government has moved rapidly to prepare a crisis response 
plan.  This plan – which was informed by discussions with the private sector, unions, civil society groups and 
the Bank and other development partners - was presented at a joint Government & development partner 
retreat on October 19
th
,
2009.  The Retreat was chaired by the Prime Minister of Moldova and attended by the 
entire new Cabinet. 
 
RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT:  Bank engagement through a DPL builds upon our on-going 
dialogue with the new Government on stabilization and structural reforms, which was set out in the Bank 
publication “Policy Notes for the New Government”, published October 1st.   
Page  2
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
OBJECTIVE: The main 
objective 
of the short-term single tranche DPL is to reinforce a planned fundamental 
redirection of economic policy making in Moldova whilst providing much-needed budget financing to smooth 
fiscal correction in response to the global crisis.  
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
Bank support under the DPL will focus on two aspects of the Government’s recovery plan; (i) laying the 
foundations for a sustained post-crisis recovery, whilst (ii) protecting the most vulnerable Moldovans from 
the impact of the crisis.    
 
Measures under (i) would supplement the Fund program’s emphasis on public sector contraction by seeking 
to stimulate a more rapid private sector recovery.  Prior actions and benchmarks will reinforce measures that 
should improve productivity, international competitiveness and price incentives for existing businesses and 
prospective private investors through improvements in the investment climate including removing public 
regulatory restrictions and private restrictive practices.   
 
Measures under (ii) will be complementary to fiscal prior actions and structural benchmarks in the IMF 
program, which were selected with technical inputs from the World Bank’s policy notes and nascent Public 
Expenditure Review.   Major emphases will be on smart expenditure correction: preserving and increasing 
growth-enhancing expenditures in roads and agriculture sectors, whilst increasing the volume of much better 
targeted social assistance.   
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
In accordance with the Association’s operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01, 
Annex E), the operation is proposed to be placed in Category “C” and does not require an environmental 
assessment 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
40 
 Total 
40 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Dino Merotto 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-1987  
Email: 
dmerotto@worldbank.org
Note: This information is provided for an evolving project. Certain components may not necessarily be included 
in the final project, while the scope and cost of other components may be adjusted. 
 
