FILE COPY
Report No. 1508a-OM
Appraisal of a Highway Maintenance
Project Oman
May 17, 1977
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
U
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 31, 1976)
Currency Unit                =        Rial Omani (RO)
RO 1 = 1,000 Baizas                   US$2.89519
1 Baiza                      -        US$0.0029
100 Baizas                   =        US$0.29
US$1                         =        RO 0.3454
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                              British/US System
1 meter (m)                          =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)   2                      0.62 miles(mi)       2
1 sq. kilometer (km )                -    0.386 sq. niles (mi )
1 metric ton (m ton)                 =    0.984 long ton (lg ton)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
B:C                    -   Benefit/Cost (ratio)
c.i.f.                 -   Cost, insurance and freight
CPD                    -   Critical Path Diagram
RD                     -   Roads Department
ER                     -   Economic Return
MC                     -   Ministry of Communications
MD                     -   Ministry of Defense
OD                     -   Origin and Destination (survey)
PDO                    -   Petroleum Development Oman
PDRY                   -   People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
TC                     -   Training Center
TEU                    -   Traffic Engineering Unit
TOR                    -   Terms of Reference
TPU                    -   Training Production Unit
TU                     -   Training Unit
UAE                    -   United Arab Emi-;ates
VOC                    -   Vehicle Operating Cost
AL                      -   Delta L (factor)
SULTANATE OF OMAN
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND  CONCLUSIONS  .....                 .........................                   i-i
I.     INTRODUCTION .* * * * * * * * * * . ................................  .........                 1
II.      THE  TRANSPORT  SECTOR  * * * * * * * * * * * * * * ................................... .      1
A.   Geography, Economic Development and the
Transport  Network  ...................                    .........               1
B.     The  Transport  System  . .....................  ......                                 3
C.     Transport  Policy,  Planning  and  Organization  .....                                  5
D.     Previous  Projects  in  the  Transport  Sector  ..... ..                                6
III.      THE  HIGHWAYS  .......              ..................................                          6
A.     The Network  ..............  o.......  ......* ......................                   6
B.     Traffic  ......................................... ....0....... .                       7
C.     Administration  .................................. .                                    8
D.    Planning  .............                .     .........................                   8
E.     Financing  and  Investment    .........  .               . ..............               8
F.     Engineering  .....................................                                      9
G.    Highway  Maintenance  ...                  ..........................                    9
Hl.    Training  ......................................................                       10
IV.     THE  PROJECT                   ..........................................                      10
A.     Objectives  ............            .. .........  .....              ....              10
B.     Description  ......................................... 0 ...........                   11
C.     Engineering  ...             ...................................                       14
D.     Cost  Estimate  ......               ...........................                       14
E.     Financing  ...................................... *     ...............                16
F.     Implementation  ..............              .. ..................                      16
G.     Disbursements  .......              .       ............................               17
H.     Environmental  Impact  ............................                                    18
V.     ECONOMIC  EVALUATION  ......                .......................                            18
A.     Benefits  and  Beneficiaries  ......................                                   18
B.     Economic  Evaluation  ...                  ..........................                  19
VI.      RECOMMENDATIONS  .            .     .....................                                     20
This report was prepared by Messrs. A.I. Ramuglia (Economist), M.R. Payne
(Engineer) and G.A. Morra (Training Officer).
This document hu a retricted distribution and may be usd by recipients only in the performance
of their offcil dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLES
1. Government Development Expenditures on Transportation Infrastructure
2. Lengths of National Roads
3. Motor Vehicle Fleet
4. Operating Fleet by Vehicle Type
5. Annual Taxes and Fees by Vehicle Type
6. Current Expenditures Directorate of Roads
7.  Lengths of Gravel/Earth Roads (km) by Year & by AADT Classification (VPD)
8. Summary of Vehicle Operating Costs on Level Tangent Roads - Asphalt
9. Summary of Vehicle Operating Costs on Level Tangent Roads -
Engineered Gravel
10. Summary of Vehicle Operating Costs on Level Tangent Roads -
Maintained Track
11. Summary of Vehicle Operating Costs on Level Tangent Roads - Track
12. Operating Speeds on Various Road Surfaces
13. Direct Operating Costs by Road Surface Type
14. Delta "L" Factors, Unpaved Roads
15. User Cost Increase Factors for Unmaintained Paved Surfaces
16. Kilometerage of Highway by ADT Categories
17. Unpaved System ADT Categories and Surface Condition Existing and,
By Year, With Improved Maintenance
18. Unpaved System ADT Categories and Surface Condition Existing and,
By Year, Without Improved Maintenance
19. Total Equivalent Kilometerage
20. Total User Savings, Maintenance Program
21. Three and Five Year Cost Estimates for Routine Maintenance
22. Three and Five Year Cost Estimates for Periodic M4aintenance
23. Training Equipment and Materials Required for Training Program
24. Numbers, Estimated Costs and Years of Delivery for Plant and Equipment
25. Implementation Schedule
26. Proposed Table for Schedule I, Loan Agreement
27. Critical Path Diagram
28. The Economic Justification for the Routine Highway Maintenance Program
29. Workshop Equipment Schedule
ANNEXES
A-1 Definitions
A-2 Draft Terms of Reference - Maintenance Management/Training Services -
Roads Department
B.   Draft Terms of Reference - General Technical Assistance
C.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule
D-1 Terms of Reference - Training
D-2 Establishment of a Training Structure
E.   Methodology Used for Economic Evaluation of Routine Maintenance Program
CHARTS
1.   World Bank-17088  - Actual Working Structure, Roads Department
2. .World Bank-17089 - Theoretical Structure, Roads Department
MAPS
1.   Transportation System - IBRD 12771
2.   Traffic Flows on Highway Network - IBRD 12772
3.   Maintenance Stations - Oman



APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        In many ways Oman has the characteristics of an island as it is
surrounded by seas of water and of sand. The sand is the trackless empty
quarter of Arabia, the Rub al-Khali, the largest sand desert in the world.
The water is the Gulf of Oman and the Arabian sea. The Rub al-Khali, unlike
the ocean, has served as a barrier and historically Oman has looked outward
to the sea, which not only provided access to foreign lands, but also linked
the coastal towns of Oman proper.
ii.       Although Oman was the foremost regional power in the Gulf between
1750 and 1856 and Muscat the center of a maritime empire, the century between
1870 and 1970 was one of stagnation, and the Sultanate was, in a literal sense,
a closed society.
iii.      Since 1970, with the accession of the present Sultan, Qaboos bin
Said, development has been rapid. Financed by oil revenues the country has
seen, in a six-year time span, the development of much of the basic transport
infrastructure, including modern roads, ports and an airport. However, such a
rapid development has been largely on the basis of ad hoc policy and planning
decisions. Further, the development has essentially been dependent on foreign
expertise, and to a large extent, on foreign labor.
iv.       Since construction of a modern transport infrastructure really only
began at the start of this decade there is essentially no natural experience
in the maintenance of such infrastructure. The proposed project would help
the Government in establishing a highway maintenance program and to train
national staff for maintenance of the expanding national road network. The
project would also provide the Roads Department with technical assistance
to administer the maintenance program and in carrying out its other duties.
v.        The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$47 mil-
lion with a foreign exchange component of US$23 million, including price and
quantity contingencies.
vi.       The Ministry of Communications, under which the Roads Department
functions, would have the overall responsibility for project implementation.
vii.      Contracts for road maintenance equipment and shop equipment will be
awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines for Procurement". Contracts for maintenance shops and training
classrooms and equipment will be awarded after competitive bidding in accord-
ance with local procedures under which foreign contractors are allowed to bid.
Consulting services for technical assistance as well as the maintenance
management/training program will be provided according to terms of reference
and contracts, both satisfactory to the Bank.



- ii -
viii.     The project was appraised in November 1976 with a follow-up mission
in January 1977. The general benefits from the proposed investments will
accrue to the economy of Oman as a whole due to the protection of the nation's
investment in its highway network and the development of Omani nationals to
staff and operate the highway maintenance program. Maintenance of the highway
network will provide direct benefits to the trucking industry, which is com-
petitive, and to a wide range of income groups utilizing highway passenger
transport.
ix.       The project is economically sound and of high priority.  On the
basis of savings in highway user costs the maintenance component of the
project shows an overall ER of over 100%. While benefits from the technical
assistance and training components cannot really be quantified, they are
critical elements not only in the development, implementation and control of
the maintenance program, but in setting up a framework for sound development
of the highway sector.
x.        It is proposed to finance 66% of the foreign costs of the project
by a loan to the Government of Oman of US$15 million for a 15-year period
including three years of grace. The loan would cover 32% of the total project
cost. The proposed project provides a suitable basis for such a loan to Oman.



APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Sultanate of Oman has asked the Bank to help finance a project
comprising road maintenance, training of maintenance personnel and technical
assistance to the Roads Department (RD). The road maintenance program was
developed under the technical assistance to the RD, foreign costs of which are
financed under Loan 985-OM. The technical assistance Consultant (Louis Berger
International, Inc., U.S.A.) has also developed the recommended training and
technical assistance program.   The total project cost is estimated at US$47
million, towards which a Bank Loan of US$15 million, representing 66% of the
foreign and 32% of the total cost is proposed.
1.02      This report was prepared on the basis of information by the Omani
authorities, the techncial assistance Consultant and on the findings of an
appraisal mission composed of Messrs. A.I. Ramuglia (Economist), B.J. Sisson
(Engineer), and G.A. Morra (Training Expert), who visited Oman in November
1976 and a follow-up mission of Messrs. J.R. Howard (Division Chief), M.R.
Payne (Engineer), A.I. Ramuglia and G.A. Morra in January 1977.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Geography, Economic Development and the Transport Network
2.01      The Sultanate of Oman, occupying most of the southeast corner of
the Arabian Peninsula, has a coastline of almost 1,800 km which stretches
from the Strait of Hormuz southeast along the Gulf of Oman and then west
along the Arabian Sea to the border of the People's Democratic Republic
of Yemen (PDRY). The extreme northern section of Oman, the Peninsula of
Musandam, is separated from the main body of the Sultanate by about 80 km of
territory which is part of the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Oman is bordered
by the PDRY, Saudi Arabia and the UAE. The frontiers with Saudi Arabia and
PDRY, which stretch approximately 600 and 300 km, respectively, have never
been formally agreed to but the total area of the Sultanate is estimated at
about 300,000 sq.km. or somewhat larger than the United Kingdom.
2.02      In many ways Oman has the characteristics of an island, being
surrounded by seas of water and of sand. The sand is the trackless empty
quarter of Arabia, the Rub al-Khali, the largest sand desert in the world.
Being, therefore, geographically insular, Oman's contacts with the world
at large have been primarily by sea, which not only provided access to
foreign lands, but also linked the coastal towns of Oman proper. The
Rub al-Khali, unlike the ocean, has served as a barrier and the insularity



of the interior has been reinforced by the Hajar mountain chain which forms
a formidable barrier between the coast and the desert from the Musandam
Peninsula south to the city of Sur.
2.03      Climatically, Oman may be generally characterized as "hot and dry".
The "dry" does not, however, necessarily mean low humidity. The summer climate
is one of the hottest in the world, made more unpleasant by high humidity in
lowland areas such as the Batinah Plain. With the notable exception of the
southwestern portion of Dhofar, rainfall is scarce, ranging, in a general way
from 75 to 150 mm annually. This average does not reflect the wide variations
between regions or indicate the frequent variations from year to year, a cri-
tical element in an area so deficient in moisture. Except for the south-
western portion of Dhofar, the only region in Oman with some continually
running streams, the country supports very little natural vegetation beyond
a few scrub bushes and trees.
2.04      The Sultanate has a long tradition as a prosperous maritime and
trading nation. Between 1750 and 1856, Oman was the foremost regional power
in the Gulf and Muscat was the center of a wide maritime empire. In the
second half of the eighteenth century the Sultan ruled not only present day
Oman but over Zanzibar and much of the territory around it as well as coastal
enclaves at Bandar Abbar and Gwadur on the north shore of the Gulf. Muscat,
along with Calcutta, Malacca and Batavia, was one of the great ports of the
Indian Ocean. By 1856, however, economic decline had set in, the result of
internal political problems, a succession crisis in 1861 which resulted in
Zanzibar being separated from Muscat, a restriction of the slave trade and
the introduction of European steamships into the Gulf.
2.05      During the century between 1870 and 1970 most Omanis were engaged
in some form of agriculture. Even with the rapid development of the last half
decade, this is still true. In Dhofar, around Nizwa and along the Batinah
Plain, tomatoes, onions, radishes, okra, eggplant, cucumbers, beans, cereals
and forage are grown. Dates, the major cash crop, are grown extensively along
the highlands. Limes, an export crop, are grown in the southwestern portion
of the Dhofar coastal plain along with coconuts, papayas and bananas.
2.06      There are no accurate statistics on population for Oman.  The 1975
Bank Atlas figure of 720,000, is undoubtedly high (the 1974 Atlas gave the
population as 600,000). A 1972 Economic Survey uses a figure of 450,000 but
comments ".... that it may be too high rather than too low". The Consultant
to the RD in their August 1976 "Interim Report" estimate the population at
540,000 with an additional 15,000-16,000 Omanis working abroad. The Government
of Oman, for planning purposes, assumes a population of 1,500,000.
2.07      The first commercial oil strike in Oman was made in 1964 and oil
exports began in August 1967. However, Sultan Said bin Taimour believed
change should come slowly, and, therefore, the majority of the revenues
accumulated. The Sultan's autocratic rule, the general poverty and the
limited pace of development led to a coup d'etat in July 1970 in which Sultan
Said, who had ruled since 1932, was replaced by his son, the present Sultan,



- 3 -
H.M. Qaboos bin Said. Under the new Sultan there has been a rapid develop-
ment of telecommunications, power, ports, roads, hospitals, schools and a
liberalization of social and economic laws.
2.08      The traditional economy, i.e., the economy in the century prior to
1970, placed only limited demand on the transport system. The bulk of mar-
keted products moved only short distances within the range of animal transport.
A few products were carried over longer distances but the flow was small and
much of this traffic was carried along the coast by dhow. The dhow did not
require modern port facilities - indeed, the dhow can do without a port,
unloading directly onto the beach at low tide. However, even by 1970 the
transport requirements of the oil sector were considerable. Although they
were largely self-contained within the operation of Petroleum Development
Oman (PDO), the search for oil not only put the vast and previously uncharted
area of inner Oman and Dhofar on the map but, as more and more vehicles were
introduced to bring supplies to the oil camps, more and more tracks became
rough roads, then graded roads and finally, a few asphalt roads. Further, the
development of petroleum provided the impetus and the revenue for a general
development of transport demand and for improvements in the transport system.
B. The Transport System
2.09      Oman's basic transport system now includes an extensive and rapidly
growing road network made up of about 1,000 km of asphalted and perhaps 6
times that amount of graded but unpaved roads, a modern deepwater and one
modern medium depth (5 meters) cargo port, an old port at Muscat with limited
capacity, a number of natural berths which have limited local functions, an
oil port, one fully international airport and a number of modest civilian
and military air strips (Map 1).
(a)  Highways
2.10      The highway sector is discussed in Chapter III.
(b)  Ports
2.11      Oman has a number of natural harbors including the historically
important ports of Muscat and Mutrah.  However, until the construction of
Port Mina al Fahal at Mutrah between 1970 and 1975, the country had no port
with deepwater berths and cargo, discharged at Muscat (general merchandise)
or nearby Mina al Fahal (oil company cargo), was offloaded onto barges and
then moved to small jetties. Heavy cargo was discharged "over the beach"
at Mutrah, something no longer possible because of a road constructed along
the beach.
2.12      Port Qaboos, protected by a 700 meter breakwater, has a navigable
channel dredged to 11 meters.   The port has 11 berths, 10 transit sheds, a
cement silo and is to have a grain silo and fish canning facilities. The



- 4 -
port has a theoretical capacity of some 1.5 million tons of cargo per annum
and in 1975 handled 1,040,000 metric tons of cargo (of which all except two
metric tons were imports).
2.13      The old port of Muscat still services dhow traffic, which now may
be on the order of 30 to 50 thousand tons annually. The PDO port at Mina al
Fahal serves as the export terminus for Oman's oil and in 1975, handled almost
19 million metric tons of petroleum, as well as 221,000 metric tons of cargo
for PDO. This was slightly more than the 217,000 metric tons handled at Raysut
(Salalah) in Dhofar Province, a "new" port essentially completed in 1975 which
is now being expanded with nine deepwater berths which will give it a capacity
of about 1 million tons per annum.
2.14      Southeast of Muscat, where the Gulf of Oman joins the Arabian Sea,
lies the port of Sur, once the main link to Zanzibar, when it was under the
Sultanate, the Gulf and India. Now only an occasional dhow stops at Sur which
has only natural berths and no facilities whatsoever; some building of dhows
continues in the Sur area. Dhows are used primarily in the coastal trade and
still provide a major transport link to Dhofar Province.
2.15      Although the Port of Mina Qaboos is moderately congested at the
present time, reflecting the general import boom in the Middle East, this
can be expected to lessen both as a result of the boom "topping out" and
because of the vast investment being made in port infrastructure all through
the Gulf. The present expansion of the port of Raysut in Dhofar will provide
a great deal of excess capacity for that province in the immediate future.
(c) Civil Aviation
2.16      Although civil air transport is still in an early stage of develop-
ment in Oman, the climate and subsoil of the country provide numerous natural
landing places for light aircraft. Primitive airstrips, most with no more
than some stones marking the runway and a windstock, exist in all parts of
the country including some in otherwise inaccessible points in the mountains.
2.17      Regular domestic service is limited to flights between Muscat and
Salalah. The military provides irregular but fairly frequent service on a
"space available" basis to Khasab, Sohar, Buraimi, Nizwa, Sur, Masirah and
Salalah.  PDO provides air service for its staff to the various oil installa-
tions.  Total domestic air traffic is modest, amounting to perhaps 25,000
passenger movements between Muscat and Salalah and a few thousand more on
non-scheduled and military flights per year.  Nevertheless, this represents
a significant increase over levels of just a year or two ago.
2.18      Seeb International Airport, 32 km west of Muscat, opened in
September 1972. With a runway 3,000 meters long the airport can handle
B747s as well as other large airplanes. In 1975, the last year for which
data is available, 263,800 passengers were handled at Seeb as well as 10,782
tons of cargo. The airport has adequate capacity for current traffic although
some expansion in repair facilities and hangar space probably is desirable.



-5-
(d) Railway
2.19      There are no railways in Oman and no railway construction is planned
or likely.
C. Transport Policy, Planning and Organization
(a) Policy and Planning
2.20      Transport policy and planning have been essentially on an ad hoc
basis. This is not surprising given the short history of modern transport
development, reflected in the fact that Oman's highway network in 1970 con-
sisted of only 10 km of paved roadway and an unknown length of earth tracks,
that there were no modern ports (construction of Port Qaboos was just getting
underway in 1970) and no modern airports. When funds became available the
Government put a high priority on the development of transport insfrastructure
and used foreign consultants and contractors to design and construct highways,
ports and airports. Many of the investments were obviously high priority
items, essential to the development of Oman. Other investments in transport
infrastructure may have been premature, especially as to scale. All tended
to be expensive, not only because of the special conditions that existed
(contractors had to import even some unskilled labor, there was no back-up
infrastructure or local construction industry, etc.) but because of the sudden
surge of construction activity in Oman and throughout the Middle East.
2.21      Equally critical is the question of maintenance.  As construction
of modern transport infrastructure really only began at the beginning of this
decade, there is no past experience in the maintenance of such infrastructure.
The RD, for all practical purposes, is less than four years old. Further,
although the organization is well thought out, it remains, in large measure,
a paper organization, with many of the positions, especially at the higher
levels, not filled and others filled by expatriates (paras. 4.01 and 4.10).
(b) Organization
2.22      The Ministry of Communications (MC) is the agency with overall
responsibility for the transport sector. The RD has direct responsibility
for planning, construction and maintenance of the road network (Chart 1).
However, because so many senior posts are vacant the formal organization of
the RD remains only a theoretical scheme. The actual working organization
(Chart 2) is a good deal simpler since the RD now only has three actual
operating divisions; Maintenance, Mechanical and Administrative. The Main-
tenance Division functions quite independently (para 3.10). The Mechanical
Division being situated in the capital area, is in fairly close RD contact,
and under fairly close control, of RD headquarters.
2.23      The Administrative Division functions as the administrative staff
of DR and is located in the new headquarters office in Muscat. The division
is logically divided into four sections: Records, General, Personnel and
Accounts.



-6-
D. Previous Projects in the Transport Sector
2.24      As a result of a Government request in late 1972 for Bank assistance
in institution building and the findings of an appraisal mission to Oman in
August/September 1973, a technical assistance project for economic planning,
and for the agricultural and transport sectors was approved by the Board in
April 1974 (Loan 985-OM). The Consultant to the RD retained under this project
developed the Maintenance-Training-Technical Assistance Program which provides
the basis for the proposed project.
III. THE HIGHWAYS
A. The Network
3.01      The largely self-sufficient agricultural economy of the 100 years
between 1870 and 1970 placed only a limited demand on road transport as the
bulk of marketed products moved only short distances, generally within the
range of donkey transport. Further, because of Oman's dry climate, sparse
natural vegetation and generally high strength of the subsoil, it is possible
to drive across all but the most mountainous country. It has been estimated
that 90% of the villages can, in fact, be reached with four-wheel drive
vehicles.
3.02      Nevertheless, the unimproved tracks meant that costs, in time and
equipment, were high and as the economy expanded under the impetus of
petroleum development transport demand and the demand for improvements in the
road network grew. Since 1971 budget allocations for road construction have
formed a significant part of Oman's increasing expenditures for infrastruc-
ture (Table 1).
3.03      In 1970 Oman had only 10 km of paved roads; by the end of 1976
there were over 1,000 km and the basic road network is largely in place or
under construction. The national road network now under the jurisdiction
of the RD includes 1,287 km of paved roads, completed or under construction,
2,564 km of maintained earth roads, and 714 km of tracks (Table 2). In
addition, some 908 km of MC tracks and 952 km of Ministry of Defense (MD)
gravel roads will be handed over to the RD in January 1978 (para 3.16). The
length of the local network is unknown, but it essentially consists of earth
tracks.
3.04      Administratively, the national network has been divided into class
A and class B roads. Class A roads are defined as asphalt surfaced roads
with permanent flood protection and wadi crossings. Class B roads are graded
roads with maintained natural surfaces. Evidently, gravel roads as well as
maintained tracks would be considered to fall under this category even though
they do not strictly meet the definition.



3.05      All design work has been carried out by expatriates.  Originally
most of the work was on a design and construct basis. Consequently, part of
the network, in terms of economic efficiency, may have been overdesigned.
Certainly, costs have tended to be high, even considering the special problems
that may have faced contractors in Oman. However, over the last four years
consulting engineers have been retained to review the designs of contractors
and to do some of the basic design themselves.
B. Traffic
3.06      Traffic data are limited in Oman.  However, in October 1975 the
technical assistant consultant to the RD conducted major traffic surveys
(Map 2). These investigations showed that the formerly ubiquitous four-
wheel drive Land Rover was being replaced by light trucks, reflecting the
improvement and expansion of the road network. Comparisons with fragmentary
"historical" data showed a very high rate of traffic growth over the last
two years in most areas, increases of well over 100% being recorded on some
main roads and as much as 600% on a road upgraded from a winding, bumpy earth
road to a modern highway. The surveys also noted a conspicuous peaking
phenomenon in and around the capital area due to commuter traffic.
3.07      A section responsible for traffic engineering, called the Traffic
Engineering Unit (TEU), has been established in the RD. The chief activity
of the TEU will be the systematic collection of traffic data in the Sultanate,
including classification counts, volume counts and OD surveys. A number of
OD and traffic surveys are planned for the near future. The unit will con-
duct these studies with the help of the technical assistance team (para 4.08).
3.08      The vehicle fleet in Oman has shown spectacular growth in the last
five years, albeit from a modest base. In 1970 there were only about 1,000
motor vehicles of all kinds in Oman and most of these belonged to the Armed
Forces or PDO. By the end of 1973 the vehicle fleet had increased to 14,447
and by the end of 1975 to over 31,000 (Tables 3 and 4).
3.09      With the exception of urban bus transportation there is no gov-
ernmental regulation of tariffs. This lack of Government intervention has
encouraged an economically rational demand for transport and effective com-
petition. And, in fact, the road transport industry in Oman is characterized
by great competition between small (largely individual) operators. At the
present time there are no axle load limits established or enforced for Omani
highways. However, as part of the previous Loan 985-OM, a study will be made
to recommend such axle load limits (para 4.17). Traffic regulations are
generally well obeyed and enforced in the capital area, the only area with
a significant concentration of traffic.



- 8 -
C. Administration
3.10      Administration of the national highway network is under the RD which
is part of the MC. In some respects the RD remains a paper organization, well
thought out but short on professional staff. This has limited its effective-
ness but with the help of some expatriates and the technical assistance team
financed under Loan 985-OM the RD provides the basic framework for adminis-
trative control of the highway program, including the necessary expanding
maintenance program. The main administrative and technical departments of
the RD are located in Muscat, the nation's capital. Actual maintenance of
the network is assigned to 18 work centers (para 2.22 and Chart 1). Of the
approved staff for the RD over one-third of the posts are vacant and many of
the individuals who presently fill positions lack the required qualifications
to function effectively. Further, the proportion of unfilled posts is highest
at the skilled levels.
D. Planning
3.11      Transport planning has been essentially on an ad hoc basis (para
2.20). The technical assistance consultants to the RD have, however, devel-
oped a five-year national road maintenance program which has served as a basic
document for the appraisal of the proposed project. This program will be
annually "rolled over" under the maintenance management assistance to the RD
provided for in the proposed project. Eventually the RD, to effectively guide
highway investment, will have to develop network planning capabilities (para
4.11). However, since the basic highway infrastructure is now largely in place
or under construction a systematic maintenance effort to protect that invest-
ment is more critical, in the short run, than comprehensive planning of future
investments. Given the limitation of manpower and technical skills under which
the RD has to function, the implementation and administration of a maintenance
program should have first priority; hence the thrust of the proposed project.
That an imbalance may exist in previous transport sector capital investments
has been recognized by the Government who have agreed that, as part of the
proposed project, general technical assistance to the RD should be provided by
consultants to identify and subsequently update a highway investment master
plan.
E. Financing and Investment
3.12      Highway expenditures in Oman are financed from the general budget
unless outside financing is involved. Direct and indirect taxes on road
users are in the form of taxation on vehicles, spare parts, tires and petrol-
eum products. However, these taxes are modest, consisting of a two-percent
vehicle and spare parts tax on the c.i.f. value of imports, a circulation
tax based on the weight of the vehicle and a modest fuel tax which, however,



- 9 -
is on the wholesaler only (though it undoubtedly is passed on to the user
even though retail prices are regulated by the Government). Overall, direct
taxes on motor vehicles range from 27 Omani Rials (approximately US$90) for
a saloon car to 127 Omani Rials (approximately US$380) for a heavy truck
(Table 5). Further, both the direct taxes and the indirect (wholesale) fuel
tax are not earmarked for highway expenditure but go into the general fund.
As separate accounts of these taxes are not kept there are no data as to the
total amounts collected.
3.13      Since 1970 the Government has embarked on a program of constructing
modern roads. Investment in highway infrastructure now is the most signifi-
cant Government development expenditure in the transport field having reached
32.2 million Omani Rials (almost US$95 million) in 1975 (Table 1). At the
same time current expenditures for the RD have grown from just over 291,000
Omani Rials in 1973 to almost 1.5 Omani Rials (US$4.3 million) in 1976 (Table
6). The basic national road network is now largely in place or under con-
struction (para 3.03).
F. Engineering
3.14      Prior to 1970 there were no highway engineers in Oman since there
were essentially no highways. Since that time steps have been taken to pro-
vide technical education for Omanis overseas but this is, of course, a long-
term proposition. To date, there are no Omani highway engineers with the RD
although a number of Omani students are now studying engineering overseas and
are a potential source of such trained manpower in the future. However, for
the present the design, construction and construction supervision of the Omani
highway program has been carried out by expatriates (para 3.05). The develop-
ment of the five-year maintenance program has also been carried out by expa-
triates, the RD technical assistance consultant (para 3.11).
G. Highway Maintenance
3.15      Although highway maintenance is the primary function of the RD it
cannot now, on its own, achieve adequate maintenance of the expanding Omani
highway network due to understaffing and a dearth of key admininistrative
and technical personnel at all levels. Since paved highways in Oman essen-
tially date from 1970, most of the paved kilometrage is under five years
old, and has received one or two years maintenance by the construction
contractors as part of the construction contract. Deterioration due to
inadequate maintenance is, therefore, not yet pronounced. However, as
the warranty period expires for more and more links, and traffic grows,
deterioration of the network will accelerate unless maintenance effort is
increased.



- 10 -
3.16      The same situation applies to the approximately 900 km of defense
roads to be turned over to the MC by the MD in the near future. These unpaved
(primarily) but engineered roads have been well maintained - in many cases
over-maintained - by the MD with the use of considerable amounts of expatriate
manpower.
3.17      The level of maintenance effort on unpaved roads now under the RD
can only be rated from "fair" to "poor". Continual scarifying and grading
of the traveled way to eliminate washboarded surfaces have resulted in canal-
ization since none of the unpaved roads have an embankment or parallel drain-
age ditches. Consequently, a considerable number of these roads require the
use of four-wheel drive vehicles (para 4.04).
H. Training
3.18      Oman has a Vocational Training Center administered by the Ministry
of Social Affairs and Labor which has been in operation for some years for
training in the engineering trades. Although the teaching methodology follows
the typical long term technical/vocational school system rather than the
shorter and more practical training approach some of the present courses are
generally relevant to the maintenance program, such as gasoline engine main-
tenance, diesel engine maintenance, auto electrics and welding. However,
space and other considerations have limited the amount of training which
could be provided. The proposed project will provide for a broad spectrum
of training for RD personnel, from operators to administrators based on an
evaluation of needs directly related to the highway maintenance program
(Annex A-2).
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      In accord with the Government's intentions to protect its heavy
concentration of highway investments in recent years and sustain an efficient
national transport network to serve the present and forecast transport demand,
the project would assist the RD to establish effective and efficient routine
highway maintenance procedures. The Government recognizes the significant
shortage at all staff levels of suitable trained Omani nationals to partici-
pate in the highway maintenance effort. An important project objective would
be to help overcome this shortage by both a specific training program and
on-job training.



- 11 -
B. Description
4.02      The project would consist of the first three-year time slice of a
five-year highway maintenance program, related training and technical assis-
tance and would include:
(i) the purchase of highway maintenance equipment and spares;
(ii) the construction of highway workshops and classroom training
facilities;
(iii) the purchase of training equipment and materials including
audio-visual aids;
(iv) equipment and spares for workshops;
(v) fuel, oils and lubricants for the highway maintenance
program;
(vi) soils laboratory, survey and communications equipment and
highway supplies;
(vii) technical assistance to the RD to establish and manage
the routine highway maintenance program over the three-year
period 1978-80;
(viii) a three-year, all-level staff training program for Omani
highway maintenance personnel; and
(ix) continued general technical assistance to the RD following
the completion of the present program under Loan 985-OM.
The Highway Maintenance Program
4.03      Under Loan 985-OM, the technical assistance consultants to the RD
prepared, and the Government has approved in principle, a five-year routine
and periodic maintenance program for the national roads in Oman. The Program
includes all the 6,425 km of roads in the country for which the RD will have
maintenance responsibility by January 1978 (para. 3.03). The proposed project
is aimed at the routine highway maintenance part of the program where the need
is most urgent and specifically relates to the first three-year slice of the
five-year program.
4.04      Under the routine maintenance program specialized force account
units in each of seven maintenance regions (Map 3) would regularly replenish
gravel and shape earth road surfaces, carry out minor patching of asphalt
surfaces and maintain shoulders, drainage, side slopes, signs and markings
using existing equipment and new equipment to be purchased under the project.



- 12 -
4.05      The Omani paved road network is young (weighted average age just
over 2 years) and predominantly of high pavement design standard; consequently,
periodic maintenance requirements during the five-year maintenance program are
expected to be few and even those found to be necessary would occur near the
end of the program and be directly financed by the Government. Details of the
program are in Annex A. In the absence of RD's organizational strength and
technical capability to handle such specialized work, the five-year periodic
maintenance program, in the form of necessary rehabilitation, resealing,
pavement reinforcement by asphalt overlay and provision of gravel base course
would be best procured by local competitive tenders.
Highway Maintenance Equipment and Spares
4.06      The requirements for new highway maintenance equipment and spares
have been evaluated from:
(a) the current stock and condition of RD equipment;
(b) the current stock and condition of MD equipment that
will be handed over to RD in January 1978 (Annex A);
(c) the size, condition and construction standards of the
highway network for which the RD has maintenance
responsibility;
(d) the physical outputs of equipment required to maintain
the network in conditions that would optimize total high-
way maintenance and vehicle operating costs; and
(e) the spare parts consumption rates for the highway main-
tenance equipment.
An estimated list of equipment and machinery to be procured is given in
Table 24; this is provisional as the items to be finally procured will be
subject to a later review of requirements by the maintenance management
consultants, to be financed under the proposed project, as detailed highway
maintenance gets underway.
Workshop Construction, Equipment and Spares
4.07      The consultants financed under Loan 985-OM have recommended the
territorial division of Oman for highway maintenance purposes into seven
regions. For northern Oman, one headquarters region at Azaiba controlled
from the capital, Muscat, and four regions centered on Sohar, Ibir, Nizwa and
Ibra; in southern Oman, one region controlled from Salalah, the principal town
of Dhofar Province, and one region centered on Haima. The zonal partitions of
the maintenance regions are logical and practical. In each region a highway
maintenance workshop would be constructed to provide necessary mechanical
support to highway maintenance equipment by operational servicing and repairs.
Each workshop would be outfitted with appropriate servicing/repair apparatus,
tools and consumable spares. Major repairs, such as engine overhauls, would
only be carried out at Azaiba and Salalah.



- 13 -
4.08      Details of workshop construction, incuding contract bidding docu-
ments, and the list of workshop equipment in Table 29 were discussed and
general agreement reached at negotiations.
Fuels, Oils and Lubricants
4.09      The fuels, oils and lubricants which would be consumed during the
maintenance program have been separated in the cost estimate (para. 4.18) as
local costs because Oman is an oil exporting country.
Technical Assistance for Highway Maintenance
4.10      Technical assistance would be provided to the RD for about 200 man-
months of maintenance management consultants services to establish and manage
the routine maintenance program according to Terms of Reference agreed with
the Government negotiating team. Terms of Reference are attached at Annex
A-2. The maintenance management consultants would also be responsible for
the training program (para. 4.14), and for the establishment and performance
of cost accounting procedures to monitor and control the costs of different
highway maintenance operations.
General Technical Assistance
4.11      As a continuation of the general technical assistance provided
to the RD with the proceeds of the previous Loan 985-OM, approximately 100
man-months of consultants' services have been included in the project for
administrative, planning and operational support to the RD including the
continuation of highway and traffic data collection. Since the four-year
old RD organization is understaffed at the professional level, the general
technical assistance services would provide support for the overall control
of the highway program. Terms of Reference in Annex B were discussed and
agreed with the Government's negotiating team.
Training
4.12      To strengthen the RD's capability to administer, control and under-
take highway maintenance work, the project includes a comprehensive training
program for all staff levels to be carried out partly in training facilities
to be constructed as part of the project and partly in field production units
for on-the-job training. Initially the program would concentrate on upgrading
those semi-skilled nationals already working for the RD. Eventually the pro-
gram would enable unskilled Omanis to be trained for work in the maintenance
program. During negotiations assurances were given that the Government will
support the training program by a policy statement outlining a training
policy within the DR and the establishment of a training unit within the DR.
4.13      A training center would be constructed at the headquarters region
in Azaiba near Muscat, where existing RD staff and recruits would receive
preliminary courses before being assigned to a training production unit
(TPU) for further, on-the-job, training. Details of the training program and



- 14 -
facilities, including TOR for the training consultant (Annex D-1) were agreed
with the Government's negotiating team as was the list of training equipment
(Table 23).
4.14      The training program would be an integral part of the highway
maintenance management contract so that concordant relationships are ensured
between operational staff outputs from the training center and the timing
of equipment acquisition.
4.15      Concurrently with the program for semi-skilled trainees, senior
staff would receive pertinent training abroad in maintenance program manage-
ment. About 10 staff would be trained, each for an average of about 4 months.
4.16      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the RD would:
(a) recruit sufficient numbers of Omanis to be trained for
maintenance operations;
(b)  make available sufficient numbers of experienced Omani
personnel to be trained as instructors; and
(c) submit details of the senior staff training program abroad
for the Bank's approval.
C. Engineering
4.17      The five-year maintenance program was developed by the technical
assistance consultants to the RD under the previous Loan 985-OM, which in-
cludes an axle loading study. The study should lead to the development of
suitable axle loading limits for Oman highways. This information is
important as the frequency and intensity of axle loadings on the highway
system are directly proportional to the highway maintenance efforts required
to keep the network in satisfactory condition. During negotiations assurances
were obtained from the Government that it will take, or cause to be taken,
such steps as shall be reasonably required to ensure that the dimensions and
axle loads of vehicles using public highways within its territories are con-
sistent with the structural and geometric design standards of such highways
and that the legal limits imposed on such dimensions and axle loads in
accordance with such standards are duly observed. Specific consequences of
the imposition of an axle loading limit were discussed with the Government's
negotiating team and will be further discussed when the results of the axle
load study of Loan 985-OM become available.
D. Cost Estimate
4.18      The estimated project costs based on December 1976 price levels are:



- 15 -
Three-Year Estimate -
% Foreign
Exchange
RO million            US$ million      Proposed Bank    to be
Item               Local Foreign Total Local Forefgn Total Participation  Financed
I. Highway Maintenance
(a) Maintenance equipment
and spares2/              -      1.7    1.7      -     5.0    5.0        5.0          100
(b) Workshop construction    0.2    1.5    1.7    0.6    4.4    5.0           4.0           91
(c) Workshop eq^upment                                      ,
and spares>-                     0.3    0.3    0.1    0.9    1.0          -             0
(d) Fuels, oils and
lubricants               1.03/   -      1.02/  3.03/  -        3.03/    -               0
(e) HQ & soil lab.bldg.
constr.&eqpmt;survey &
communications eqpmt;
bldg.mtc.,utilities,hwy,
office & gen.supplies    0.33-   0.9    1.2    0.723/ 2.7    3.4           -             0
(f) Maintenance management
expatriate personnel
-& local staff salaries  3.523/ 0.6    4.1   10.03/  1.8   11.8          1.8          100
& allowances.            5.0    5.0   10.0   14.4   14.8   29.2         10.8           73
II. Training
(a) Classrooms construction
and equipment             -      0.1    0.1    0.1    0.3    0.4         0.3          100
(b) Program in Oman           0.1    0.5    0.6    0.4    1.3    1.7          1.3          100
(c) Overseas fellowships       -      0.1    0.1      -    _        0.2       0.2          100
0.1    0.7    0.8    0.5    1.8    2.3         1.8          100
III. Technical Assistance4/         0.1    0.3    0.4    0.3        9    1.2       0.9          100
IV. Total I, II and III            5.2    6.0   11.2   15.2   17.5   32.7        13.5           77
V. Physical Contingencies (10%o) 0.5    0.6    1.1    1.5    1.8    3.3          0.5
VI. Price EscalationV1             2.6    1.2    3.8    7.5    3.6   11.1         1.0
VII. Estimated Project Cost         8.3    7.8   16.1   24.2   22.9   47.1        15.0           66
(Round off US$ totals)         8.3    7.8   16.1   24.0   23.0   47.0
1/ Mission estimate based on the first thtee years of a five-year highway routine
maintenance program for 1978-82. (table 21)
2/ Financial expenditure; economic life is greater than three years.
3/ Recurrent costs in whole or part.  No Bank financing.
4/ Based on an estimated 100 man-months of expatriate assistance to DR.  Local costs
includeper diem, housing and local transport allowances.
5/ 7.5% per year (1977-79) and 7% per year (1980-85) for foreign costs (see CPS
memorandum dated January 31, 1977); 15% per year for local costs (mission estimate
reflecting present and projected conditions).



- 16 -
The total cost of the five-year routine maintenance program, of which the
proposed project comprises the first three-year time slice, has been esti-
mated at RO 15.4 million (US$44.8 million) in December 1976 prices of which
RO 6.4 million (US$18.6 million) is foreign exchange. Physical contingencies
and cost escalation raise these estimated costs to US$80.4 and 29.1 million
respectively, giving a foreign exchange component of 36%. Man-month rates
for consultants in the maintenance management/training and general technical
assistance components average US$7,000 including all overheads, air transporta-
tion and escalation. Cost details are shown in Table 21. During negotiations
the general cost estimates of the project and the overall five-year maintenance
program were discussed and confirmed by the Government's representatives
(Tables 21 and 22).
E. Financing
4.19      The proposed loan of US$15 million, which would finance specific
items of the project as shown in the cost estimate table, representing 66%
of the foreign cost of the project, would be made to the Government of the
Sultanate of Oman. The beneficiary of the loan is the MC, and through the
MC, the RD. The Government would finance the remaining foreign costs (US$7.9
million) and all local costs (US$24.2 million) of which about US$0.1 million
represents taxes. The Government would fully finance the last two years of
the five-year routine maintenance program (US$33.3 million) and the total
costs of the five-year periodic maintenance program (US$28.9 million).
During loan negotiations assurances on these points, including the timely
availability of the Government financing, were obtained from the Government's
negotiating team.
F. Implementation
Responsibility for Implementation and Supervision
4.20      The RD would have overall responsibility for the execution of the
highway maintenance and training programs with the assistance of consultants.
The RD would also have direct responsibility for the procurement of highway
maintenance equipment and spares, construction and supervision of maintenance
workshops and classrooms, procurement of equipment for workshops and class-
rooms and logistic support with workshop spares, fuels, oils and lubricants,
soils laboratory, survey and communications equipment and highway supplies.
The RD would be responsible for the efficient use of consultants providing
technical assistance to them under this project.
Procurement
4.21      The highway maintenance equipment and spares would be procured after
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines
for Procurement". Bids would be evaluated on the basis of compliance with the
specifications, price, delivery time and service facilities.



- 17 -
4.22      Contracts for the construction of maintenance work shop buildings
and classrooms would be awarded after competitive bidding in accordance with
local procedures. This is appropriate since it is unlikely that any foreign
contractor not already operating in Oman would be interested in the relatively
minor, scattered individual contracts and because the presence of sufficient
foreign and local contractors assures adequate competition. However, foreign
contractors who wish to bid would not be excluded. Invitations for bids would
be published in local and Gulf newspapers and contract documentation will be
reviewed by the Bank before their issue to contractors.
4.23      The costs of particular items of training equipment (total cost
US$20,000) are too small to justify the expense of international competitive
bidding and procurement for items under US$3,000 would be by the regular
local purchase procedures of the Borrower which are satisfactory to ensure
competition. Items above US$3,000 will be procured by competitive bidding
in accordance with local procedures (para. 4.22).
4.24      The maintenance management/training and general technical assistance
would be carried out by qualified and experienced consultants according to
Terms of Reference and conditions all satisfactory to the Bank (Annexes A
and B).
Project Implementation Schedule
4.25      The routine maintenance program financed under this project would
cover a period of three years beginning January 1978. Bids for some highway
maintenance and workshop equipment are expected to be invited in the second
half of 1977 as are bids for the maintenance workshops and classrooms. The
training program is expected to start early 1978 and the general technical
asssistance is expected to start at the beginning of 1978 after the comple-
tion of the present program financed under Loan 985-OM. The implementation
schedule, which was discussed and confirmed with the Government during nego-
tiations, is shown in Table 25.
G. Disbursements
4.26      The proceeds of the proposed Bank loan would be disbursed on the
following basis:
(i)  the actual foreign exchange costs of imported equipment
and spares;
(ii) 80% of the total costs of workshop construction;
(iii) the actual foreign exchange costs of the highway maintenance
management consultant's services;
(iv) the actual foreign exchange costs of the construction and
fittings of classrooms for training;



- 18 -
(v) the actual foreign exchange costs of operation by consultants
of the training program in Oman, including equipment;
(vi)  80% of the total costs of audio/visual training equipment;
(vii)  tile actual foreign exchange costs of overseas fellowships; and
(viii)  the actual foreign exchange costs of the general technical
assistance consultants services to the RD.
4.27      Any funds remaining in the loan account after project completion
would, with the agreement of the Bank, be reallocated for the procurement
ot more highway maintenance equipment.
4.28      The estimated cumulative quarterly disbursement schedule is shown
in Annex C assumes that the loan would become effective by January 1978.
During negotiations the Government and the Bank discussed and confirmed
the disbursement schedule.
H.. Environmental Impact
4.29      None of the project elements have any significant physical affect
on the environment.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.01      The proposed road maintenance program, would protect the national
investment in transport infrastructure and, in conjunction with the project
training component, improve Omani highway maintenance capabilities to match
the increasing demands of growing traffic on an expanding highway network.
Economic benefits from improved maintenance would include savings in transport
costs since, if the present maintenance effort was unaltered, traffic service-
ability of many highways would deteriorate.
5.02      Protection of past capital investments in transport infrastructure
by relatively marginal annual recurrent expenditures is axiomatic. For the
long-term development of Oman and the eventual full control and execution
of the road maintenance program by Omani nationals, the project elements
of training and technical assistance represent a rational use of resources.
5.03      Under present conditions, economic benefits would accrue directly:
(a) to the State, which would preserve its investment in transport
infrastructure and ultimately lower its highway maintenance
costs as the RD staff becomes fully indigenized;



- 19 -
(b) to the trucking industry through reduced vehicle operating
costs; and
(c) to the range of income groups who use highway passenger
transport.
The extent to which benefits to truckers are passed down to consumers would
depend on competition within the trucking industry; the industry is now
freely competitive (para. 3.09).
B. Economic Evaluation
(a) Road Maintenance
5.04      The benefits from routine road maintenance arise from vehicle
operating cost (VOC) savings as well as extending the time between resurfacing
(periodic maintenance). The economic justification for some level of routine
maintenance is apparent. Costs of preventing road failure through maintenance
are less than intermittent reconstruction of the road. Hence, if the engineer-
ing standards of original construction are economically justified, it is
economically justified to maintain the road. However, the optimal maintenance
level has to be decided: this depends on the relation between the marginal
costs of increasing the maintenance effort beyond that which would just prevent
the road from complete impassability and the resulting decrease in VOC and
periodic maintenance costs.
5.05      In theory, the optimal maintenance level will vary between different
road sections, depending on various incremental maintenance costs and corres-
ponding road user benefits. In practice, efforts (in cost inputs) which would
maintain the road at or near the minimum level of traffic serviceability for
which it was constructed are economically justified only if the benefits (the
value of traffic volumes multiplied by differential VOC) produce a Benefit/Cost
(B:C) ratio of unity or greater.
5.06      In Oman for those asphalted roads which have been recently con-
structed to standards judged to be higher than those needed to satisfactorily
accommodate the low traffic loading frequencies that now occur (and are likely
say, during the next five years), the concentration of effort should be on
those protective routine maintenance tasks which would be needed if there
was little traffic on the road, for example, minor repairs to pavement edges,
restitution of shoulder erosion, drainage clearance etc. Pavement maintenance
would not be entirely neglected but be done when observed running surface
conditions and systematic classified traffic loading counts demonstrated the
need for it. Important functions for project supervisory staff would be to
prevent over- or under-investment by: (a) regulating the division of routine
maintenance resources between pavement and ancillary works; and (b) selecting
appropriate timings of periodic maintenance resurfacings.



- 20 -
5.07      On the basis of savings in highway user costs for different road
types (paved, gravel and unsurfaced) carrying < 50 to > 800 AADT, ER of
between 80% and well over 100% were derived. B:C ratios, which are more
appropriate for the analysis of road maintenance investments, of over 6 to 1
was obtained using an assumed opportunity cost of capital of 15% and are of
just under 6 to 1 when a 20% opportunity cost of capital was used (Annex E
and Table 28).
(b) Training
5.08      Standard methods of economic justification cannot be applied real-
istically to the training component of the proposed project. Training is a
crucial project element and the one which should make the most significant
contribution to the attainment of the objective of a competent maintenance
organization staffed by Omanis.
(c) Technical Assistance
5.09      The costs of technical assistance directly associated with the
administration and control of the maintenance program have been included in
the economic evaluation, which justifies them.
5.10      The technical assistance to the RD to be provided by consultants
is more general in nature than specific so that the costs are not directly
assignable to precise project elements. However, the technical assistance
is an indispensable condition for the effective functioning of the RD, which,
in turn, is fundamental to the successful operation of a national road main-
tenance program in Oman.
(d) Overall Economic Justification
5.11      The only quantifiable element of the proposed project is the road
maintenance program, the cost of which represents 90% of the total estimated
project cost. A network B:C of over 6:1 at an opportunity cost of capital
of 15% and over 5.8:1 at an opportunity cost of capital of 20% for the main-
tenance project component is representative (Table 28).
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government's
negotiating team on the following principal issues:
(a) Terms of Reference for the maintenance management/training
program (paras. 4.10 and 4.14);
(b) Terms of Reference for the general technical assistance
to the RD (para. 4.11); and



- 21 -
(c)  the general scope of the five-year routine maintenance program
and that the Government would make available to the RD sufficient
funds to execute the program, including wages, incentives and
benefits, which would insure the recruitment and retention of
semi-skilled and skilled Omani personnel (para. 4.18).
6.02      During loan negotiations agreements were reached with the Govern-
ment's representatives that the Government will:
(a)  support the training program by a policy statement outlining
a training policy within the RD and the establishment of a
training unit within the RD (para. 4.12);
(b)  recruit sufficient numbers of Omanis to be trained for main-
tenance operations (para. 4.16);
(c)  make available sufficient numbers of experienced Omani per-
sonnel to be trained as instructors (para. 4.16);
(d)  submit details of the senior staff overseas training program
for the Bank's approval (para. 4.16);
(e)  take, or cause to be taken, such steps as shall be reasonably
required to ensure that the dimension and axle loads of
vehicles using public highways within its territories are
consistent with the structural and geometric design standards
of such highways and that the legal limits imposed on such
dimensions and axle loads in accordance with such standards
are duly observed (para. 4.17); and
(f)  make available in a timely manner sufficient funds to the
RD to carry out the agreed overall (routine and periodic)
five year maintenance program (para. 4.19).
6.03      The project is suitable for a Bank Loan of US$15 million equivalent
to the Sultanate of Oman for a 15-year term, including a three-year grace
period.
May 1977






TABLE 1
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
Government Development Expenditures on Transportation Infrastructure
(Million Omani Rials 11)
Item                    1971      1972     1973    1974      1975
Harbours and Ports            7.0      7.6       5.4     3.4       3.0
Airports and Aviation         1.5      2.8       1.7     2.5       0.2
Roads                         4.8      4.3       5.1    19.9      32.2
l/ 1 Omani Rial  US$2.90
Source: (1971-1975) "Sultanate of Oman, Statistical Yearbook", Fourth Issue
MaY 1977



TABLE 2
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
Lengths of National Roads 1/
Road Lengths in Km Completed by End of:
Type of Road                         1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976
Asphalt surfaced                      10      27     198    300    427    708   1007
Graded                              1817   2168    3060   3620   4105   5495    NA
l/ Excludes defense roads
Source: (1970-1975) "Sultanate of Oman, Statistical Yearbook", Fourth Issue and
(1976) Louis Berger International, Inc., Draft Report "Five-Year Physical
Maintenance Program 1978-82".
May 1977



APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
Motor Vehicle Fleet
Number of Vehicles on Road at End of Year
Registration Class -                          1970      1971     1972        1973      1974      1975
Private                                               846    1,460       2,756    5,320    8,992
Commercial                                         2,898    5,380        7,247    9,925   15,108
Government                                            224      760       1,376    2,465    3,489
Taxis                                                 210       240         443      495       732
Self-drive hire                                       167       330           53/    10         12
Public Service                                        999       990         979       941      928
Diplomatic                                              8        20          54        69        97
Motorcycles                                           170       494         747    1,427    2,109
Total                                    840 4/ 5,540    9,674       13,607   20,652   31,467
1/ Registration class does not include breakdown by vehicle type. See Table 5
2/ Estimate by mission based on registration data for year.
3/ Most of the self-drive hire vehicles re-registered as taxis.
4/ No registration in 1970. No breakdown by registration class available.
Source: "Sultanate of Oman, Statistical Yearbook", Third and Fourth Issues and
Louis Berger International, Inc., "Interim Report", August 1976
May 1977



TABLE 4
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
Operating Fleet by Vehicle Type
Category                            1974               1975
Passenger Vehicles                     9,440              14,796
Pickups                                7,735              11,963
Trucks                                 2,705               3,778
Industrial                               491                 630
Unaccounted for                          281                  300
Total                             20,652              31,467
1/ "Other"
Source: (1974) Special Tabulation, Central Policy Department and
(1975) Louis Berger International, Inc., "Interim Report",
August 1975
May 1977



TABLE 5
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
Annual Taxes and Fees by Vehicle Type
(Omani Rials 1/)
Vehicle Type
Item                  Saloon        Light Truck         Heavy Truck
Road Tax                 25.000           40.000             120.000
Registration (Plate)      1.000            1.000               1.000
Registration (Card)       1.000            1.000               1.000
Vehicle Inspection          -              5.000               5.000
Driver's License2/        1.667            1.667               1.667
Totals             28.667          48.667             128.667
1/ 1 Omani Rial= US$2.90
2/ Not strictly a vehicle tax
Source: "Preliminary Draft Highway User Costs", Louis Berger International, Inc.,
Muttrah, Oman, January 1976
May 1977



TABLE 6
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
Current Expenditures, Directorate of Roads
(Omani Rials 1/)
Item and Sub-Item
1.  Salaries and Allowances                     1973                1974               1975               1976
a.  Salaries                               73,708           168,297             306,538            357,000
b.  Allowances                             10,217            17,476              61,412            275,163
Subtotal                             83,925            185,773            367,950            632,164
2.  Other Charges General
a.  Duty Travel                               144             4,045                 812              1,397
b.  Expatriate Travel                          -                 776                403              1,936
c.  Office and General                     22,575            15,274              21,873             18,895
d.  Electricity, Water and Rent               420                476              3,173             23,787
e.  Maintenance, Fuel, etc. for Vehicks 50,261               99,044             206,568            273,852
f.  Training Expenses                          -                  66              2,129              1,080
g.  Road Maintenance                       29,816            48,467             107,849            166,143
h.  Post and Telegraph                         -              1,002                 377              1,195
i.  Audit Cost                                                   -                3,500                -
J.  Buildings 3/                               -             22,415              18,250                -
Subtotal                            103,218            191,564             364,935           493,285
Total Recurrent Expenditures              187,143           377,337             732,885         1,125,448
3.  Special Expenditures
a.  Office Furniture                          896             2,640               6,201             15,034
b.  Vehicles                              103,208            58,354              77,986             54,174
c.  Equipment                                  -             51,644             876,749            275,787
Subtotal                             104,104            112,638             960,937           344,995
Grand Total                          291,247            489,975          1,693,822          1,470,443
1/ 1 Omani Rial US$2.90
2/ Including wages for daily paid labor
3/ Including workshop extention
4/ Includes household furniture for DR homes
Source:  Louis Berger International. Inc., "Interim Report", August 1976 and
information supplied by DR.
May 19yf(



TABLE 7
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAJN
LEVTHS OF' C ELJAARTH MAD$
BY YEAR & BY AADT CLASSIFICATION (VPD)
1:500~~~~~~~~~4
Cii-X.                            SO. l
578  i7       O             1
Soe: Couts Rep, F           177
MaYr 1 977



TABLE 8
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
Summary of Vehicle Operating Costs on Level Tangent Roads
Asphalt
Baizas per Kilometer -
Speed                        _5/
Kilometers/hour            Datsun-               Land Rover 4/            Bedford Truck -
10                       43.3                   47.7                    147.0
20                       39.2                   42.5                    133.2
30                       37.9                  40.9                     127.8
40                       36.8                   39.8                    123.8
50                       36.4                   39.9                    122.2
60                       36.4                  40.0                     120.7
70                       36.4                  40.0                     120.6
80                       36.5                  40.8                     121.7
90                       36.9                  41.3                     124.2
100                       37.8                   42.8                    127.9
110                       39.4                   45.1                    132.2
1/ Includes motor fuel, motor oil, tires & tubes, maintenance, depreciation, interest,
insurance, taxes & fees, and (for Bedford truck only) driver's salary.
2/ 1 Omani Rial 1000 Baizas US$2.90.
3/ L20A, 6-cylinders, 1998 cc engine displacement (gasoline).
41 4-cylinders, 2286 cc engine displacement (gasoline).
5/ 300-114, 6-cylinders, 4927 cc engine displacement (gasoline).
Source: "Preliminary Draft Highway User Costs," Louis Berger International, Inc.,
Muttrah, Oman, January 1976.
May 1977



TABLE 9
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
Summary of Vehicle Operating Costs on Level Tangent Roads -
Engineered Gravel
Baizas per Kilometer 2/
Speed                        3/                        4/                           5/
Kilometers/hour             Datsun -              Land Rover -             Bedford Truck -
10                        49.0                   53.4                     162.4
20                        44.8                   48.2                     148.6
30                        44.1                   47.3                     145.3
40                        43.2                   47.0                     144.0
50                        43.3                   47.9                     145.2
60                        44.1                  49.2                      147.3
70                        44.3                  50.3                      150.8
80                        45.6                  52.5                      156.2
90                        46.8                  54.3                      163.9
100                        48.8
110                        51.8
/ Includes motor fuel, motor oil, tires & tubes, maintenance, depreciation, interest,
insurance, taxes and fees, and (for Bedford truck only) driver's salary.
2/ 1 Omani Rial 1000 Baizas US$2.90.
3/ L20A, 6-cylinders, 1998 cc engine displacement (gasoline).
4/ 4-cylinders, 2286 cc engine displacement (gasoline).
5/ 300-114, 6-cylinders, 4927 cc engine displacement (gasoline).
Source: "Preliminary Draft Highway User Costs," Louis Berger International, Inc.,
Muttrah, Oman, January 1976.
May 1977



TABLE 10
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
Summary of Vehicle Operating Costs on Level Tangent Roads -
Maintained Track
Baizas per Kilometer 2/
Speed                                       Lan  Roer 
Kilometers/hour             Datsun -             Land Rover 4               Bedford Truckv5/
10                      53.0                   58.0                       173.8
20                      48.6                   52.7                       160.1
30                      48.2                   52.0                       157.8
40                      47.6                   52.1                       157.8
50                      47.8                   53.7                       160.7
60                      49.1                   55.6                       164.6
70                      49.6                   57.2                       170.2
80                      51.3                   60.2                       177.8
90                      52.9                   62.8                       188.5
100                       55.6                     -                         -
110                       59.5
1/ Includes motor fuel, motor oil, tires and tubes, maintenance, depreciation, interest,
insurance, taxes and fees, and (for Bedford truck only) driver's salary.
2/ 1 Omani Rial 1000 Baizas US$2.90
3/ L20A, 6-cylinders, 1998 cc engine displacement (gasoline)
4/ 4-cylinders, 2286 cc engine displacement (gasoline)
5/ 300-114, 6-cylinders, 4927 cc engine displacement (gasoline)
Source: "Preliminary Draft Highway User Costs", Louis Berger International, Inc.,
Muttrah, Oman, January 1976
May 1977



APPRAISAL OF                                      TABLE 11
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
Summary of Vehicle Operating Costs on Level Tangent Roads
Track
Baizas per Kilometer 2/
Speed                        3/'Ln   ovr-5
Kilometers/hour            Datsun -              Land  Rover               Bedford Truck -
10                     60.4                    62.5                     185.6
20                     56.2                    57.4                     172.2
30                     56.2                    57.3                     171.7
40                     56.2                    58.0                     173.9
50                     56.5                    60.3                     178.9
60                     58.3                    63.0                     185.4
70                     59.2                    65.4                     193.6
80                     61.6                    69.5                     204.6
90                     63.7                    72.8                     219.0
100                     67.3
110                     72.1
1/ Includes motor fuel, motor oil, tires and tubes, maintenance, depreciation,
interest, insurance, taxes and fees, and (for Bedford truck only) driver's salary.
2/ 1 Omani Rial 1000 Baizas US$2.90
3/ L20A, 6-cylinders, 1988 cc engine displacement (gasoline)
4/ 4-cylinders, 2286 cc engine displacement (gasoline)
5/ 300-114, 6-cylinders, 4927 cc engine displacement (gasoline)
Source: "Preliminary Draft Highway User Costs", Louis Berger International, Inc.,
Muttrah, Oman, January 1976
May 1977



TABLE 12
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
Operating Speeds on Various Road Surfaces /
Operating Speed in km/hour
Reference Vehicle           Asphalt      Gravel     Maintained Track       Track
Datsun 2/                      80          60              50                40
Land Rover 3/                  70          60              50                40
Bedford Truck -/               60          50              40                30
1/ From direct observation and estimates: the sustainable average vehicle
speed in travel over the road surfaces indicated.
2/ L20A, 6-cylinders, 1988 cc engine displacement (gasoline)
3/ 4-cylinders, 2286 cc engine displacement (gasoline)
4/ 300-114, 6-cylinders, 4927 cc engine displacement (gasoline)
Source: "Preliminary Draft Highway User Costs", Louis Berger International, Inc.,
Muttrah, Oman, January 1976
May 1977



TABLE 13
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
Direct Operating Costs by Road Surface Type -
(Baizas per Kilometer 2/)
Speed                                  Datsun A'
Kilometer/hour        Asphalt       Gravel      Maintained Track       Track
10                22.3        28.0              32.0              39.4
20                19.3        24.9              28.7             36.3
30                19.1        25.3              29.4             37.4
40                19.0        25.4              29.8             38.4
50                19.5        26.4              30.9             39.6
60                20.3        28.0              33.0             42.2
70                21.1        29.0              34.3             43.9
80                21.9        31.0              36.7             47.0
90                22.8        32.7              38.8             49.7
100                24.3        35.3              42.1              53.8
110                26.4        38.8              46.5              59.1
Land Rover
10                27.2        32.9              37.5             42.0
20                23.5        29.2              33.7             38.4
30                23.2        29.6              34.3             39.6
40                23.2        30.4              35.5             41.4
50                24.2        32.2              38.0              44.6
60                25.2        34.4              40.8             48.2
70                25.9        36.2              43.1             51.3
80                27.5        39.2              46.9             56.2
90                28.6        41.6              50.1             60.1
100                30.7          -                _                 _
110                33.5          -                _                 _
Bedford Truck -5
10                64.0        79.4              90.8            102.6
20                56.1        71.5              83.0             95.1
30                55.9        73.4              85.9             99.8
40                56.4        76.6              90.4            106.5
50                58.7        81.7              97.2            115.4
60                60.6        87.2             104.5            125.3
70                63.9        94.1             113.5            136.9
80                67.8       102.3             123.9            150.7
90                72.8       112.5             137.0            167.6
100                78.8         -                 -                 -
110                85.3         -
1/ Motor fuel, mDtor oil, tire wear, maintenance and depreciation.
2/ 1 Omani Rial- 1000 Baizasg US$2.90
3 L20A, 6-cylinders, 1988 cc engine displacement (gasoline)
4/ 4-cylinders, 2286 cc engine displacement (gasoline)
5/ 300-114, 6-cylinders, 4927 cc engine displacement (gasoline)
Source:  "Preliminary Draft Highway  User Costs", Louis Berger International, Inc.,
JaMuary 1976
M'aYr 1977



TABLE 14
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
Delta "L" Factors, Unpaved Roads -
Surface Condition                  Datsun -       Land Rover           Bedford Truck
Excellent                         0.28              0.33                   0.35
Good                              0.35              0.40                   0.42
Fair                              0.51              0.48                   0.52
Poor 6/                           0.75              0.60                   0.65
Bad                               1.12              0.90                   0.97
1/ Representing the additional direct operating costs imposed by surface
condition compared to a paved road in good condition.  Thus, for travel
over a comparable road link (alignment, gradient, side friction etc.) but
with a lower quality surface condition, the DL factors shown represent the
additional costs (above the unit cost of 1.00) imposed on traffic at standard
operating speeds (see Table  12) with a built in speed change allowance.
2/ L20A, 6-cylinders, 1988 cc engine displacement (gasoline)
3/ 4-cylinders, 2286 cc engine displacement (gasoline)
4/ 300-114, 6-cylinders, 4927 cc engine displacement (gasoline)
5/ Equivalent to a well maintained engineered gravel road
6/ Equivalent to a truck
Source: "Special Draft Report Five-Year Physical Maintenance Program
1978/1982", Louis Berger International, Inc., Muttrah, Oman,
December 19, 1976
May 1977



TABLE 15
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
User Cost Increase Factors for Unmaintained Paved Surfaces
ADT Category
Year                >800              200-800               2 200
1977                  1.00             1.00                 1.00
1978                  1.00             1.00                1.00
1979                  1.00             1.00                1.00
1980                  1.13             1.00                1.00
1981                  1.25             1.10                 1.00
1982                  1.50             1.25                1.10
Source: "Special Draft Report Five-Year Physical Maintenance Program
1978/1982", Louis Berger International, Inc., Muttrah, Oman
(Revision of February 1977)
May 1977



APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
Kilometerage of Highway by ADT Categories -/
(As of January of Year Shown)
Paved System                1977            1978          1979          1980          91L          182a
c 200                     77.2            66.4         57.1          49.1          42.2          36.3
200-800                  865.3         1,032.0        896.8         911.2         790.5         685.7
" 800                     64.5          185.6         331.1         458.7         586.3         697.0
Total                1,007.0         1,284.0      1,287.0       1,419.0 -/   1,419.0        1,419.0
Unpaved System
- 50                  2,514.0         2,162.0      1,859.3       1,599.0       1,375.1       1,182.6
50-200                 1,506.0         2,519.2 -/   2,469.2       2,251.8       2,160.4       2,050.4
>' 200                  246.0           456.8         809.5      1,555.2       1,470.5       1,773.0
Total                4,266.0        5,138.0       5,138.0       5,006.0 -    5,006.0        5,006.0
1/ Highways for which DR has maintenance responsibility.  Traffic growth projected at 14% per year.
2/ Actual                                                                                                           r
3/ Paving of 132 km Nizwa-Ibri                                                                                      M
4/872 km of Ministry of Defense roads turned over to DR
Source: "Special Draft Report Five-Year Physical Maintenance Program 1978/1982", Louis Berger
International, Inc., Muttrah, Oman (February 1977 Revision)
May 1977



APPRAISAL OF A
HIGMiAY MfAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
Unpaved System ADT Categories & Surface Condition
Existing and, By Year, With Improved Maintewnaoe
(Kilometers)                                     V~0LE - MOMETERS PER YEAR (1C0,000)
SURFACE CONDITION                                                                                                                    SURFACE CONDITION
EXCL.        GOOD         FAIR         BAD         V.BAD      CATEGCRY
KMS     %     kis    X      knm    %     kss   %      kms  %       nkms    AVERAGE     EXCL.      GOOD    FAIR    BAD       V.RAD    TCTALS
1977        < 50                    2,514    5      126   15      377  30      754  30      754  20    503        30 '        13.8       41.3    82.6    82.6    55.1       275.4
(EXIST.)        50-200                1,506    5       75   10      151  20      301  30      452  35    527       125 '        34.2       68.9   137.3   206.2   240.4       687.0
> 200                    246    0        0    5       12  10       25  30       74  55    135       308 -'          -       13.5    28.1    83.2   151.8       276.6
(4,266)        (201)         (540)      (1,080)      (1,280)    (1,165)                  (48.0)   (123.7) (248.0) (372.0) (447.3) (1,239.0)
< 50                   2,162   10      216   25      541  40      865  15      324  10    216        30          23.7       59.2    94.7    35.5    23.6       236.7
1978          50-200                2,519   20      504   20      503  25      630  15      378  20    504       125         230.0      229.5   287.4   172.5   229.9   1,149.3
> 200                    457   30      "37   35      160  10       46  10       46  15     68       330         165.0    - 192.7    55.4    55.4    81.9       550.4
(5,138)        (857)       (1,204)      (1,541)        (748)       (788)                (418.7)   (481.4) (437.5) (263.4) (325.4) (1,936.4)
<50                    1,859   20      372   35      650  30      558  10     186   5      93        30          40.7       71.2    61.1    20.4    10.2       2C3.6
1979         50-200                 2,469   30      741   ,0      740  20      494  10      247  10    247       125         338.1      337. 6   225.4   112.7   112.7   1,126.5
>200  -                  810   50      405   30      243  10       81   5       41   5     40        v)3        521.8      313.1   104.4    52.6    51.5   1,043.6
(5,138)      (1,518)       (1,633)      (1,133)        (474)       (380)                (900.6)   (721.9) (390.9) (185.9) (174.4) (2,373.7)
< 50                   1,599   20       320   40     640  35      559   5       80   -       -        30         35.0       70.1    61.2      8.8        -      175.1
1980         50-200                 2,252   40      901   30      676  20      450  10      225   -       -      125         411."      308.4   205.3   102.7         -   1,027.5
> 200                  1,155   60      693   30      346  10      116   -        -   -      -       377         953.6      476.1   159.6        -        -   1 58%3
(5,006)      (1,914)       (1,662)      (1,125)        (305)         (-)              (1,399.7)   (854.6) (426.1) (111.5)        (-' (2,794.9)
< 50                   1,375   20      275   45      619  30      412   5       69   -       -       30          30.1       67.8    45.1      7.6        _     150.6
1981         50-200                 2 160   50   1,080   35       756  10      216   5      108   -       -      125         492.8      344.9    98.5    49.3         -     8;;
>200                   1,471   70   1,030   25       366   5       73   -        -   -      -       404       1,518.8      542.6   107.7        -        -   2,169.1
(5,006)      (2,385)       (1,743)        (701)        (177)         (-)              (2,U41.7)   (955.3) (251-3)  (56.9)        (-) (3,305.2)
* 50                   1,183   20      237   50      591  30      355   -        -   -       -        30         26.0       64.7    38.9        -        -     129.6
1982         50-200                 2,o50   55   1,127   35       718  10      205   -        -   -       -      125         514.2      327.6    93.5        -        -     935.3
> 200                  1,773   80   1,418   20       355   -        -   -        -   -       -      432       2,235.9      559.8        -       -        -   2.795.7
(5,006)      (2,782)       (1,664)        (560)          (-)         (-)              (2,776.1)   (952.1) (132.4)        (-)'    (-) (3,860.6)
Estimated due to incomplete data but held constant, by category, throughout study period
1977 actual average;  but this has been grown at 7% per year to reflect the expected
increased traffic (over normal national increase) on these already over-trafficked roads.
Note:  Percentages of kilometers in each surface condition category come from highway inventory.
Source:  "Special Draft Report Five-Year Physical Maintenance Program 1978/1982",
Louis Berger International, Inc. (February 1977 revision)
M1a, 1977



APPRAISAL OF A
HIGRWAY MNXTMEJANCE PROJECT
OKAN
Uwnpaved System ADT Categories i Surface Condition
ziasting and, By Year, Without Improved Maintenance
(Kilmters)                                       VEHIICLE -KILOMiUETER  PErt YILAR (100,000)
SURFACE CONDITION                                                                                                                      SURFACE CONDITICN
ADT
E1 CL.        GOOD         FAIR         BAD         V.BAD       CATEGORY
Xf's - %       kma    %      kms   %      kms   %      kms %        kma  AVERAGE         EXCL.      GOOD    FAIR    BAD       V.BAD    TCTALS
1.977         < 50                   2,514    5      126   15      377  30      754  30      754  20       503      30 *        13.8       41.3    82.6    82.6    55.1        275.4
(~~EST.)    ~ 50-200               1, 506    5      75   10      151  20      301  30      452  35       527     125 *        34.2       68.9   137.3   206.2   240.4        687.0
> 200                    246    0        0    5       12  10       25  30       74  55      135      308  e        0.0       13.5    28.1    63.2   151.8        226.6
(4,266)         (201)         (540)      (1,080)      (1,280)       (1,165)                (48.0)   (123.7) (248.0) (372.c) (447.3) (1,239.0)
< 50                  2,162    4.5    97   14.0   303  28.5   616  30.0   649  23.0   497             30          10.6       33.2    67.4    71.1    54.4        236.7
1978           50-200                2,519    4.5   113    9.5   239  19.0   479  29.0   731  38.0   957           125          51.6      109.0   218.6   333.5   436.6   1,1',9.'
> 200                   457    0         0    4.0    18   9.0    41  26.0   119  61.0   279          330           0.0-      21.7    49.4   143.3   356.1        :jC.5
(5,138)         (210)         (560)      (1,136)      (1,499)       (1,733)                (62.2)   (163.9) (335.4) (5.7.9) (227.1) (1,936.5)
< 50                  1,859    4.1    76   13.0   242  27.0   502  29.9   556  26.0   483             30           8.3       26.5    55.0    60.9    52.9        233.6
1979           50-200                2,469    4.1   1C1    9.0   222  18.0   444  28.0   691  40.9 1,011           125          46.1      101.5   202.6   315.3   461.2   1,126.5
> 200 -                 810    0         0    3.2    26   8.0    65  22.6   183  66.2   536          353           0.0       33.5    83.7   23L.8   690.6   1,043.E
(5,135)         (177)         (490)      (1,011)      (1,430)      (2,030)                 (54.4)   (161.3) (341.3) (618.OX1X,204.7) (2,373.7)
< 50                  1,599    3.6    58   12.2   195  25.6   409  29.6   473  29.0   464             30           6.4       21.3    44.8    51.8    50.8        175.1
1980           50-200                2,252    3.6    81    8.6   194  17.1   385  27.0   608  43.2   984           125          37.0       88.5   175.7   277.4   448.9   1,027.5
> 200                 1,155    0         0    2.6    30   7.0    81  19.7   228  70.7   816          377           0.0       41.3   111.5   313.7 1,122.8   1,589.3
(5,0W6)         (139)         (419)        (875)      (1,309)      (2,264)                 (43.4)   (151.1) (332.0) (642.9X1,622.5) (2,791.9)
< 50                  1,375    3.3    45   11.3   155  24.2   333  29.2   402  32.0   440             30           4.9       17.0    36.5    44.0    48.2        150.6
1981           50-200                2,160    3.3    71    8.0   173  16.3   352  26.0   562  46.4 1,002           125          32.4       78.9   160.6   256.4   457.2        985.5
>200                  1,471    0         0    2.1    31   6.1    90  17.2   253  74.6 1,097          404           0.0       45.7   132.7   373.1 1,617.6   2,169.4
(5,006)         (116)         (359)        (775)      (1,217)       (2,539)                (37.3)   (141.6) (329.8) (673.5X2,1-23.0) (3,305.2)
< 50                  1,183   30        35   10.5   124  22.9   271  28.7   340  34.9   413           30           3.8       13.6    29.7    37.2    45.2        '129.5
1982           50-200                2,050   30       62    7.5   154  15.5   313  25.0   512  49.0 1,004          125          28.3       70.3   145.1   233.6   458.1        9355.3
>200                  1,773    0         0    1.7    30   5.3    94  15.0   266  78.0 1,383          432           0.0       47.3   148.2   419.4 2,180.7   2,795.7
(5,006)          (97)         (308)        (683)      (1,118)      (2,800)                 (32.1)   (131.2) (323.0) (690.2X2.684.0  (3,E60.5
Estimated due to incomplete data but held constant, by category, throughout study period.
1977 actual average;  but this has been grown at 7% per year to reflect the expected
increased traffic (over normal national increase) on these alrendy over-trafficked roads.                                                                   r
Notes Percentages of kilometers in each surface condition category come from highway inventory.                                                                     F'
Source: 'Special Draft Raport Five-Year Physical Maintenance Program 1978/1982",
Louis Berger Internation, Inc. (February 1977 revision)
MaY 1977



APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
Total Equivalent Kilometerage
(Paved System, No Surface Maintenance)
Equivalent
Vehicle-Kms/Yr,
Year/  ADT Category    Vehicle-Kms/Yr           User Cost    2/    No Maintenance
Year     ADT Category        Kms           Average           (100,000)         Increase Factor -         (100,000)
< 200            77.2            180                50.7                1.00                    50.7
1977      200-800           865.3             500           1,579.2                 1.00                1,579.2
>800             64.5          1,560 3/           367.2                 1.00                  367.2
<200             66.4            180               43.6                 1.00                   43.6
1978      200-800         1,032.0             500            1,883.4                1.00                 1,883.4
>800            185.6          1,669            1,130.6                1.00                 1,130.6
<200             57.1            180               37.5                 1.00                   37.5
1979      200-800           896.8             500           1,636.7                 1.00                 1,636.7
>800            333.1          1,786            2,171.4                 1.00                2,171.4
<200             49.1            180               32.3                 1.00                    32.3
1980      200-800           911.2             500            1,662.9                1.00                 1,662.9
>800            458.7          1,911            3,199.5                 1.10                3,519.5
<200             42.2            180               27.7                 1.00                    27.7
1981      200-800            790.5            500            1,442.7                1.10                 1,587.0
>800            586.3          2,045            4,376.3                 1.25                5,470.4
<200             36.3             180               23.8                1.10                    26.2
1982      200-800           685.7             500            1,251.4                1.25                 1,564.3
>800            697.0          2,188            5,566.4                 1.50                8,349.6
1/ See Table 16
2/ See Table 15
3/ Average ADT growth for >800 category assumed as 7% per year
Source: "Special Draft Report Five-Year Physical Maintenance Program 1978/1982",
Louis Berger International, Inc., Muttrah, Oman (Revision of February 1977)
May 1977



TABLE 20
APPRAISAL OF A
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
Total User Savings, Maintenance Program
(in millions of Omani Rials)l/
1978     1979      1980     1981      1982       Total
Unpaved
Roads
50 ADT           0.19     0.26      0.30     0.27      0.25        1.27
50-200 ADT           1.16     1.90      1.99      2.51     2.55       10.11
200 ADT           1.82     3.15      5.53      7.96    10.77       29.23
Subtotal     3.17      5.31      7.82    10.74    13.57        40.61
Paved
Roads
200 ADT            -         -         -        -       0.02        0.02
200-800 ADT            -          -        -       1.15      2.48       3.63
800 ADT            -         -       2.54      8.69    22.10       33.33
Subtotal     -          -       2.54     9.84    24.60        36.98
Total       3.17      5.31    10.36    20.58    38.17         77.59
1/  1 Omani Rials = US$2.90
Source: "Special Draft Report Five-Year Physical Maintenance Program 1978/1982",
Louis Berger International, Inc. (February 1977 Revision)
lvay  1977



APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
Three-Year and Five-Year Cost Estimates for Routine Maintenance
(US$ '000)
1978              1979              1980          Three-Year Totals             1981              1982          Five-Year Totals
Item                                 Local Foreign   Local Foreign   Local Foreign   Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign   Local Foreign   Local Foreign  Total
A. Highway Maintenance
(i) a.  Purchase of equipment                         -      1,044      -        713       -     1,743       -     3,500   3,500      -        700      -        575       -     4,775   4,775
b.  Purchase of equipment spares                  -        420      -        420       -       660       -     1,500   1.500      -        473      -        493       -     2.466   2.466
-     1,464       -     1,133       -     2,403       -     5,000   5,000      -      1,173       -     1,068       -     7,241   7,241
(ii) a.  Construction of workshops                     400   3,600       -        -         200     800       600   4,400   5,000      -        -         -       -         600   4,400   5,000
b.  Workshop machinery, tools & supplies            3      608       35       52       66      253       104     913   1.017       76      105       87      120       267   1.138   1.405
403   4,_208     -35      -52      -266   1-,053     -704   5,313   6,017        76     105        87      120      867   5,538   6,405
(iii) a.  Fuels, oils & lubricants                      900      -      1,000      -       1,100     -       3,000     -      3,000   1,100      -       1,100     -       5,200      -     5,200
b.  Headquarter & soil lab. buildings
construction & equipment; survey &
communications equipment; building
maintenance, utilities, highway,
office & general supplies                     365   2.239       172      201      201      219      738   2.659   3.397       215      236      226      273    1.179   3.168   4.347
1,265   2,239    1,172      201    1,301       219    3,738   2,659   6,397   1,315       236    1,326       273    6,379   3,168   9,547
(iv) a.  Maintenance, managemen  expatriate
personnel, salaries & allowances              100     600       100      600      100      600      300   1,800   2,100        75      450       75      450       450   2,700   3,150
b.  Local staff salaries, overtime &
allowances                                  2.500     -       3,200      -      4.000      -        700      -     9.700   4.400       -      4.400      -      18,500     -    18.500
2.600     600    3.300       600    4.100      600   10,000   1,800  11,800   4,475        450    4.475      450   18.950   2.700  21.650
Total for Highway Maintenance                   4.268   8,511    4,507   1,986    5.667   4.275   14.442  14.772  29.214   5,866   1.964    5.888   1.911   26.196  18.647  44.843
B. Training
a.  Classrooms construction & equipment            80      320      -        -         -       -          80      320     400      -       -         -        -         80      320     400
b.  Program in Oman                               134      434       133     433       133     433       400   1,300   1,700       200     -         200      -        800   1,300   2,100
c.  Overseas fellowships                          -         67       -        67       -        66       -       200      200      -        50       -         50      -        300      300
Total for Training                                214      821       133     500       133     499       480   1.820   2.300       200       50      200       50      880   1.920   2.800
C.  Total for Technical Assistance                       100     300       100      300      100      300      300      900   1,200      -        -         -       -         300      900   1,200
D.  Total A + B + C                                   4,582   9,632    4,740   2,786    5,900   5,074   15,222  17,492  32,714   6,066   2,014    6,088   1,961   27,376  21,467  48,843
E. Contingencies at 10%                                  458     963       474      279      590      507    1,522   1.749   3.271       607      201       609     196    2.738   2,146   4.884
F.  Total D + E                                        5,040  10,595    5,214   3,065    6,490   5,581   16,744  19,241  35,985   6,673   2,215    6,697   2,157   30,114  23,613  53,727
G. Escalation (Local)                                  1,191     -       2,199      -      4,121      -       7,511     -      7,511   5,874      -       7,784      -     21,169      -    21,169
H.  Escalation (Foreign)                                 -     1,305       -        653       -     1,628       -     3.586   3.586       -       846       -      1033              5,465   5.465
Total Cost Estimates                                  6.231  11,900    7.413   3.718   10,611   7.209   24255  22827  47082  12,547   3.061   14,481   3190   51283 
May '977



APPRAISAL OF
A EIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
QMAN
Three-Year and Five-Year Cost Estimates for Periodic Maintenance S
(US' 000)
1978            1979             1980          Three-Year Totals          1981             1982           Five-Year Totals
Item                      Local Foreign   Looal Foreign   Local Foreign   Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign   Looal  Foreign   Local Foreign  Total
J. Provision 150 mm Gravel Basel/       -       -        250     500      500   1,000      750   1,500   2,250     750   1,500      750   1,500    2,250   4,500   6,750
K. Bitumen Seal Coast-/                 -       -        -       -        200     600      200    600    800       400   1,000      100     400      700   2,000   2,700
L. Hot Rolled Asphalt Overlas/         -       -        -       -       -        -        -       -       -       600   1,800      -       -        600   1,800   2,400
M. Highway Rehabilitation2/            500   1,000       400     800      300     600    1,200   2,400   3,600     200    400       100     200    1,500   3,000   4,500
N. Special Repairsl/                   200      300      100     300      100     200      400    800   1,200      100    100       100     100      600   1.000   1.600
P. Total J-N Inclusive                 700    1,300      750   1,600    1,100   2,400    2,550   5,300   7,850   2,050   4,800    1,050   2,200    5,650  12,300  17,950
Q. Contingencies at 10%                 70      130     Jj_      160      110     240     2g5      530    785    205       480      105     220      565  1.230   1,795
R.  Total P + Q                        770   1,430       825   1,760    1,210   2,640    2,805   5,830   8,635   2,255   5,280    1,155   2,420    6,215  13,530  19,745
S. Escalation (Local)                  180      -        345     -        770     -      1,295     -     1,295   1,985     -      1,345     -      4,625     -     4,625
T. Esoalation (Foreign)                 -       170      -       375      -       770      -     1,315   1,315     -     2,020      _     1,160      -     4.495   449
Total Cost Estimates               950    1.600    1,170     1      1,980      10    4.100    1    11,245   4.240  7.300    2,500   3.580   10.8hO  18.025  28.865
/ NOT inoluded in the project; assumed to be part of Capital Budget.
L  By Force Account OR Contractors.
/ By contractors.
Source: Consultants' and Mission's estimates.
May 1977



TABLE 23
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
Training Equipment and Materials Required
For Training Program
Item
Estimated
Item                                Cost(US$)
A. Furniture and Related Equipment,
Training Center                                  60,000
B. Heavy Maintenance Equipment
2 Gradersl-                   62,000
1 Front End Loader l/         23,000
1 Dozer l/                    50,000
1 Roller 1/                   10,000
6 Tippers 1/                 100,000
1 Tractor                     30,000
3 Trucks 1/                   25,000
Subtotal                                   300,000
C. Mobile Workshop Equipment, Handtools
and Materials                                   200,000
D.  Audio-Visual Training Aids                        20,000
E. Training Production Unit Camp,
Facilities and Equipment                        150,000
Total                                      730,000
/ Used. To be drawn from existing stock. Not included in training
program costs shown in para. 4.18.
May 1977



APPRAISAL OF
A HIGSWAY MAINTANCE PROJECT Y
OMN
Numbers. Estimated Costs and Years of Deliverv for Plant and EaUi eot
(Nu:sers and USS)
MD2/       DR                                                                    Three-Year                                           Five-Yaw
laventory  Inventory               1978             1979              1980            Totals              1981             1982           Totals
Item                              Jsn.77/78   Jan. 78    Total   No.   cost    No.    Coat    No.           Cost     No.     Cost      No.    Cost    No.    Cost   J1L           Cost
I Mechanical Broom                                                                                       2     21,942     3     32,913      5     54,855                                        5     54,853
2 Air Compressor, 125 cu. ft.                            5/1           1       6/2                       1     14.628                       1     14.628                                        1      14,628
3 Payement Brsaker                                                                                       2      3,048     6      9,144      8     12,192                                        8      12,192
4 Sinker Rock Drill                                                                                      2      7,842     6     19,746      8     27,588                                        8      27,58
5           Pneumatic T aper                                                                             2      1,462     6      4,386      8      5,848                                        8       5,848
6 Concrete Vibrator, Pneumatic                                                                           2      1,462     8       5,848    10      7,310                                        10      7,316
8 Concrete Mixer, 9 cu. ft.                              3/3           1       4/4                       2     17,066     1       8,533     3     25,599                                         3     25,599
12 Fuel Tanker Trailer, 3,000 uS gal.                                                    1     29,256    1      29,256     1     29,256      3     87,768                                        3      87,768
13 Pvaement Striper, Self-propelled                                                      1      6,095    1       6,095     1      6,095      3     18,285                                         3,   18,285
13 Pavement Striper, Manually Operated                                                   1      3,657    1       3,657     2      7,314      4     14,628                                        4      14,628
15 Generator, 125 KVA                                     4/1                   4/1      5      79,235                     2     31,694      7    110,929                                         7    110,929
16 Forklift Truck                                                                        5      73,140                     2     29,256      7    102,396                                         7    102,396
17 Water Pump                                             7/0                   7/0      5      18,285    2      7,314     2      7,314      9     32,913                                         9     32,913
18 Arc Welder, 300 amp.                                   5/2                   5/2      5      30,475                     2      12,190     7     42,665                                         7     42,665
19 Track-type Tractor                                     5/0           5      10/5
20 Motor Grader, 125 h.p.                                21/15         33      54/48                                       2    129,168      2    129,168*    2    t29,168      2    129,168      6    387,504*
21 Roller, Three Steel Wheels, 8 to 10 tons               1/1                   1/1
22 Roller, Tandem Steel Wheels, 4 to 6 tons                             1       1/1                                        2      33,488     2     33,488                                         2     33,488
23 Roller, Tandem Steel Wheels, 8 to 10 tons              3/3           1       4/4
24 Roller, Pneutatic Tyres, 10 to 15 tons                 1/0           1       2/1
24 Front End Loader, Wheel Type, 2 cu. yd.                             14      14/14                                       2      93,288     2     93,288*    2      93,288     2     93,288      6    279,864*
25 Front End Loader, Wheel Type, 4 cu. yd.                5/5                   5/5
27 Car, Saloon, 5-passenger                                             3       3/3      1       5,787    3     17,361     3      17,361     7     40,509*    1       5,787     2      11,574    10     57,870*
28 Crane, 2 tons capacity                                 1/0                   1/0                       2     92,644                       2     92,644*                                        2     92,644*
29 Truck, 40-passenger Bus Body                                                          5    146,280                      2     58,512      7    204,792*                                        7    204,792*
29 Truck, Flat Bed, Cargo Body                            1/1                   1/1                       3     65,826     3      65,826     6    131,652*                                        6    131,652*
29 Truck, Dump, 7 cu. yd.                                11/7          15      26/22     5    127,995    3      76,797    16    409,584    24    614,376*    8    204,792       8    204,792    40  1,023,960*
29 Truck-mounted Water Tank, 1,750 115 gal.               7/7           1       8/8                       1     28,037      7    196,259     8    224,296                       1      28,037     9    252,333*
29 Truck-mounted Fuel Tank, 1,750 US gal                  4/3                   4/3      2      56,074                     2      56,074     4    112,148      1     28,037                       5    140, 185
29 Truck-mounted Lubrication Unit                                                        6    190,164                      2      63,388     8    253,552                                         8    253,552
29 Stationery Lubrication Unit                            2/0                   2/1      5      33,525                      2     13,410     7     46,935                    .                    7     46,935
29 Truck, Flat Bad with Crane Hoist                       2/2                   2/2                       1     29,256      1     29,256     2     58,512                       1      29,256     3     87,7U
U Thick, wracksl                                                        1       1/1
31 Truck-tractor Unit                                                                                     1     46,322                       1     46,322*                                        1  .U,32i*
30 Truck-tractor Unit with Winch                           1/0          1       2/1                       1     56,074                       1     56,074*                                        1     56,074*
30 Truck-mounted Water Tank, 3,000 US gal.                2/0                   2/0       2    102,396    2    102,396      2    102,396     6    307,188                                         6    307,188
30 Low Loader Trailer, 50 tons                                                                            1     26,818                       1     26,818*                                        1     26,818*
30 Loader Trailer, 35 tons                                              1       1/1                                                                      *                                                    *
31 Truck, Pick-up, 4 x 4                                 30/26         25      55/51                      3     23,772      5     39,620     8     63,392*    5      39,620     5      39,620    18    142,632*
31 Truck, Crew Cab, 4 x 4                                                                 2     19,504    2     19,504      2     19 504     6     58,512*    2      19,504      2     19,504    10     97,520*
31 Truck, Station Wagon, 4 x 4                             1/1          5       6/6       2     19,854                      2     19,854     4     30,708      2     19,854      2     19,854     8     79,416*
32 Fuel Tanker Trailer, 1,750 US gal.                                                    6      87,768                      2     29,256     8    117,024                                         8    117,024
33 Water Tanker Trailer, 300 US gal.                      4/0                   4/0      12     14,628                      4      4,876    16     19,504                                        16     19,504
35 Aggregate Conveyor                                                                                     1     14,628      1     14,628     2     29,256      1     14,628                       3     43,884
37 Generator, 35 KVA                                       7/0                  7/0
35 Screening Plant                                                                                                          1    144,000     1    144,000*    1    144,000                        2    288,000*
- Scrapers, 14-28 cu. yd.                                8/0                   8/0       _*__                 _                   _        _            *                                                     *
Subtotals                                         141/78        109     250/187   71  1,044,118  .42    713,207   105  1,743,437   218  3,500,762    25    698,678    25    575,093   268  4,774,533
Contingencies at 10%                                 -           -         -        -    104,412    -     71,321    -      174,344    -     350,077      -     69,868      2     57,509    -     477,454
Escalation                                           -           _         -        -    141.500    -    167.182    -      559.419    -     868,101    -    293.664    -    302.888    -   1.464.653
Total Estiated Costs78 J                                109 ?,250/187         !A
Total Estimated Costs                                   ______        u 109 2_ 250/187    71     2290.030     951.710    105  2 477 200   218  4.718.940        25  1.062.210    25    935.490   268  6 716.640
1/ 5,138 km of gravel/earth roads (January 1978)
2/ Second Figure represents consultants' estimate of MD residual plant and equipment in January 1978.
3I Values of January 1978 inventory totals NOT included in three- and Five-year totals.
May 1977



wtaTATIO UCKI                                                             calc. YYYYYYYY .C b 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ITEM             ACTIVITY                            1977                1978                1979                 i9B0                1981                982z
ZF FMIAIMI JIJA SON ID J IF MIM|A|M1|J|T|A|5 |O|N|DJIFl ItM| T|TIAIS J  OIN ID 1JIF IMIAIF1 ITI|J|A IS |O|N|D JIF|MIA IM|J|J|A IS JOIN |D: T|F IM|A IM IT ITIAIS |OINID
RETURN OF APPRAISAL MISSION                                                                   FIVE  YEAR  MAINTENANCE  PROCRAM
APR PROTECT PQEPARATION BEFORE NEGOTIATIONS u                    0----- TH4REE  YEAR  MAINTENANCE  PROTECT-
NGN LOAN NEGOTIATIONS
BRD BOARD PRESENTATION
SIG SIGNATURE OF LOAN AGREEMENT
EFF LOAN EFFECTrIVENESS                              xx 
CONSTRUCTION
HI.Q.IBVILDJNG.WORKSHOP & TRAINING CENTER
t-1 2PREPAPATION OP  BID DOCUMENTS
-2 PREPARATION OF BIDS
1-3 EVALUATION OF BIDS L CONTRACT AWARD                   X 
1-4 CONSTRUCTION  PERIOD                                        XIK"
REG IONAkL WORKSHOPS
i-I PREPARPATION OP BID DOCUMENTS
t-? PREPARATION OP BIDS                             -
1.3 EVALUATION OF BIDS A CONTRACT AWARDS
t-5 CONSTRUCTION PERIODS   3H.RIII$I                                      IIIII                                                                               I
t-1. SE-,TpUP M4AIN FEN5AN`CE. CAMPS
MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT & SPARE PARTS
2-1 PRE-PARATION OF BID DOC-UMENTS
2-2 PREPARATION OF BIDS
2-3 EVALUATION OF BIDS&Z CONTRACT AWARDS
2*4 SUPPLY OF EQUIPMENT & SPARES FOB.I
2.5 SHIP EQUIPMENT & SPARES
2-(. PORT CLEARANCE
2-7 PREPARE, ASSEMB3LE & COMMISSION EQUIPMENT
2-8 ASSICN EQUIPMENT & CREFWS To I.Q.& REGIONS                                  ASSIrGNMENTSCONTINUE-$
MiAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT/ TRAINING                                                                            I
3-0 PREPARATION OF TERMS OF REFERENCE
3.1 INVITE PROPOSALS
34Z ANALYSIS OF PROPOSALS
3-3 APPOINTMENT & MOBILIZATION OF CONSUL-TANTS
3-h EVALUATION OF EYISTINQ DR PERSONNEL
3.5 RESTRUCTURE DR MAINTENANCE SECTION
3-(. RECRUIT FIRST BATCH MAINTENANCE: TRAINEES
3-7 FIRST TRAINING COURSE OF SERIES                                        X~TAlNING. CONTINUES 
3.8 ASSIGN EXISTINGA DR STAFF TO H.Q.&RECIONS                        HiII     
EICISTINrG EQUIPMrtNT & CREWS      .       NEW &E%(ISTING EQUIPMENT & CREWS---
3-9 MAINTENANCE OPERATION-X
3.10 MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE. TO DR.
- PREPARATION OF TER-MS OF REFERENCE
- INVITE PROPOSALS
-ANALYSIS OF PROPOSALS
-APPOINTMENT & MOBILIZATioN OF CONSULTANTS
-CONSULTANTS STAFF WITH DR...                              IIrI IIIII                  1-TT IIFTIFIIIII



TABLE 26
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
Proposed Table for Schedule I, Loan Agreement
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                        Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Highway Maintenance:
(a)  Maintenance equipment                              100% of foreign
and spares                   5,000,000             expenditures
(b)  Workshop construction         4,000,000            80%
(2) Training
(a)  Classrooms construc-                               100% of foreign
tion and fittings               300,000            expenditures
(b)  (i)  Operation of
program in
Oman including                                100% of foreign e
Equipment               1,280,000             expenditures
(ii) Audio/Visual
equipment                  20,000             80%
(c)  Overseas Fellowships            200,000            100% of foreign
expenditures
(3) Consultants Services:
(a)  Maintenance management
services pursuant to Part                          100% of foreign
B.1 of the Project           1,800,000             expenditures
(b)  Technical assistance
pursuant to Part B.3 of                            100% of foreign
the Project                    900,000            expenditures
(4)  Unallocated                        1,500,000
Total                       15,000,000
May 1977



0 UIODEWO DAISDEEAOIOE ORTSUCH ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     - 
TTT-AIXOILT,T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IGDIGNOTODO                                                               UA:ONACEPRS
FLOAT AT DAR
ODSTEUCTIA A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3  1.A Y 4
o   1 ODRSRUTE P1 IO  FOR REDEAR  WORKSHOP
" ,I  ",I IOp qs-L          T A-7
\1.0  1SET .F TODD  AILIRIOD
ACTIVITY  DESIQATIO
E:~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~OE    CRIICA                                                                                PAT                                                                                                                       L ETSIN -ESoN  -> -lEn IE -P -,         - - - -_
E.SSUI t 1l RE 'Rl.ANIAtII,I'. 11F DlNECloRATe OF ROA 'O/tT\
0.2Fs1N  PRRTARADDD  OP BIOd aS  NSAPFEIA
2 1 C  nlAPPED R uDIERE  rIPO   e. DLREs    EIN
POR  CLNERRAN PR OPhRAITIPDN O                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S-
2. 5110 LORITIPNMIETET  ARDS HAOAeHeu
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OE  evT%AL PATHOI HAF3E Z  TEROGuE VLOATSO LS \ w 
iL~ .70slu  APPCLTIS4 



'IABLE 28
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
Economic Justification for the Routine
Highway Maintenance Program
At an Assumed 15% Opportunity Cost of Capital
(U.S. $ Millions)
Year               Cost                           Benefits
Actual      Present Worth      Actual      Present Worth
1978      6.77          6.77              9.19           9.19
1979      4.79          4.17             15.40          13.40
1980      9.16           6.92            30.04          22.71
1981      5.26           3.46            59.68          39.27
1982      4.68           2.68           110.69          63.32
Total                24.00                           147.89
B:C Ratio= 6.16:1.00
At an Assumed 20% Opportunity Cost of Capital
(U.S. $ Millions)
Year               Cost                           Benefits
Actual     Present Worth       Actual      Present Worth
1978      6.77           6.77             9.19           9.19
1979      4.79           3.99            15.40          12.83
1980      9.16           3.36            30.04          20.85
1981      5.26           3.05            59.68          34.56
1982      4.68           2.26           110.69          53.35
Total                22.43                           130.78
B:C Ratio- 5.83:1.00
With Costs Assumed 20% greater and Benefits.
20% less (at 20% Opportunity Cost of Capital)
(U.S. $ Millions)
Year               Cost                           Benefits
Actual      Present Worth      Actual      Present Worth
1978      8.12           8.12             7.35           7.35
1979      5.75           4.79            12.32          10.26
1980     10.99           7.63            24.04          16.68
1981      6.32           3.66            47.75          27.64
1982      5.62           2.71            88.55          42.68
Total                26.91                           104.61
B:C Ratio--3.89:1.00
Source: Mission Estimate
May 1977



APPRAISAL OF                          TABLE 29
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
Workshop Equipment Schedule
Azaiba, Salalah, Sohar,       Ibra and
Nizwa and Haima             Ibri
Item                            1978 (No.)                1980 (No.)
Precision Lathe, 17"                               2                      -
Precision Lathe, 10"                               5                      2
Bench Shaper                                       2                      -
Milling Machine                                    2
Surface Grinder 36"                                2                      -
Power Hacksaw                                      5                      2
Cylinder Boring Machine                            2                      -
Drill Stand                                        3                      2
Bench Drill Press                                  8                      2
Floor Drill Press                                  2                      -
Aobile Floor Crane                                 5                      2
Valve Refacer                                      2                      -
Vertical Hydratllic Press, 50 ton                  3                      2
Vertical Hydraulic Press, 150 ton                  2                      -
Bench Hydraulic Press                              2                      -
Arbor Press                                        3                      2
Arbor Saw, Tilting 10"                             2                      -
Electric Circular Saw                              5                      2
Fuel Injector Pump Calibration Stand               1                      -
Electric Air Compressor 150 cfm                    2                      -
Bench Grinder                                     18                      6
Pedestal Grinder                                   2                      -
Crankshaft Grinder                                 1                      -
Wheel Balancer                                     3                      2
Injection Nozzle Tester                            2                      -
Cylinder Honer                                     2                      -
Tyre Demounter                                     8                      2
Armature Tester                                    8                      2
Alternator Test Stand                              2                      -
Commutator Turner                                  2
Armature Mica Cutter                               2
Diamond Dresser & Holder                           5
Steam Cleaner                                      6                      2
Water Distiller                                    8                      2
Riveting Machine                                   5                     _2
136
May 1977






ANNEX A-1
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGIWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
Definitions
ROUTINE MAINTENANCE:  financed from RD Annual Recurrent Budget.
Surface                (i)  patching asphalt pavement;
(ii)  patching surface treat-.ent pavement;
(iii)  reshaping gravel- or un-surfaced roads:
Base, Subbase and    (iv)  replenishment of traffic- or weather-eroded gravel
Shoulders                    base course;
(v)  repairing of localized base and subbase failures;
(vi)  reshaping and restoring shoulders of paved, gravel
and unpaved roads;
Drainage             (vii)  clearing, cleaning and reshaping side, turn-out,
toe and catchwater drains;
(viii)  upkeep of pavements of wadi crossings;
(ix)  clearing, cleaning and reshaping culvert inlets
and outlets;
(x)  erosion control for all wadi crossings, culverts
and drains;
(xi)  culvert repairs and replacement;
(xii)  installation of additional culverts up to 1,000 mm
diameter;
Structures          (xiii)  painting;
(xiv)  minor repairs;
Marking and Signs    (xv)  restriping and remarking paved roads;
(xvi)  repairing and reDlacing road signs
Other               (xvii)  clearing of regenerated bush within road formation
width-
(xviii)  control of drifting sand;
(xix)  minor vertical and horizontal alignments improve-
ments, UD to a financial limit laid down bv DRHQ.
AmiLJ: 1. Wreouencv of reshaping gravel- or un-surfaced roads and replen-
ishment of gravel base course, (iii) and (iv) above, will depend
on (a)  traffic volume and composition, (b) climatic conditions,
and (c) observed running surface conditions.
Grader requirements have been evaluated from:



ANNEX A-1
Page 2
(a)  an annual usage of 1,500 hours;
(b)  3-pass blading at 4 kph;
(c)  4 bladings per year for AADT less than 50 VPD
12 bladings per year for AADT between 50 and 200 VPD,
and 24 bladings per year for AADT over 200 VPD;
(d)  shoulders and drainage twice annually, operating speed
3 kph.
Volumes for gravel replenishment has been calculated by assuming
an annual loss of 20 mm of gravel for each 100 AADT and the equip-
ment for excavating, hauling and spreading (front end loaders,
dump trucks and graders) matched to the calculated volumes.
2. All other tasks, except (xix), are regular "housekeeping" tasks
carried out daily or as required by traffic, weather and observed
conditions.
3. Minor vertical and horizontal alignment improvements, (xix), in
each maintenance region would require RDHQ authority to incur
expenditure after their review of the cost estimate provided to
them by the region concerned.
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE: financed from RD Capital Development Budget.
Pavement               (i)  50-100 mm hot-rolled asphalt overlay for paved
roads;
(ii)  resealing of bituminous surface-treated roads;
(iii) provision of 150 mm of gravel base course;
(iv)  provision of new subbase, base and pavement
(rehabilitation);
Earthworks             (v)  major improvements in horizontal and vertical
alignments of existing roads;
(vi)  major improvements to road corss-sections;
Drainage Structures (vii)  new bridges;
(viii)  additional culverts greater than 1,000 mm
diameter;
(ix)  major repairs to structures;
Markings and Signs    (x)  new road furniture;
(xi)  replacement of guardrails.
NOTES:  1.  All items of periodic maintenance for any one fiscal year would
require capital development budget allocations based on the main-
tenance region's cost estimates and approved by the Director
General of Finance during the year preceding the cne durin- 'which
the work would be carried out.



ANNEX A-1
Page 3
2. No periodic maintenance by RD force account is envisaged during
the first three years of the five-year maintenance program be-
cause the RD's capability for such work will not have been
developed sufficiently.
3. Major highway repairs due to inclement weather, geological causes
or any other force majeure would be dealt with by special alloca-
tions to the Capital Development Budget.
May 1977



ANNEX A-2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENA.NCE PROJECT
OMAN
Draft Terms of Reference
Maintenance Management/Training Services
Roads Department
I. DEFINITIONS
1.          Consulting services over a three-year period are required to assist
the Ministry of Communications and Public Services (MC) and the Roads Depart-
ment (RD) of the Sultanate of Oman, both centrally and at a regional level, in
the implementation of a Five-Year Physical Maintenance Program (hereinafter
termed 'the Program") and in the development and implementation of a training
proguam (hereinafter termed "Training") for skilled and semi-skilled labor.
2.          When mentioned together, the above two disciplines will be termed
"The Services"; the consultants providing The Services will be termed the
"MM/T Consultants".
3.          The consulting team providing general technical assistance to the
MC/RD will be referred to as "The Consultants."
II. INTRODUCTION
4.          A Program for the maintenance of the Oman highway network has been
prepared by The Consultants on behalf of the Oman Government. The Program
defines the locations and facilities for headquarters and regional workshop com-
plexes (Attachment C)1/ and sets forth year-by-year equipment and personnel re-
quirements. The MM/T Consultants will have the opportunity to review the Program
and make recommendations for improvements, the acceptance of which will be sub-
ject to the approval of the Government.
5.          The Consultants' present contract calls for their services through
to the end of 1978. They have been active since 1975 in reviewing and analyz-
ing highway construction and maintenance conditions in Oman; the present
methods of highway maintenance being practiced; the present methods of main-
taining and repairing Government vehicles and the maintenance equipment fleet;
and identifying investment, operational, organizational, budgetary and all
other requirements necessary to develop the Program.
6.          All reports, maps, manuals, position papers, etc. produced by The
Consultants, will be available to the M/T Consultants. Also during the
period of overlap, the staff of The Consultants will be available for discus-
sions whenever required by the MM/T Consultants.
1/ Map 3.



ANNEX A-2
Page 2
7.          Although in the same contract, the Program and Training, where
appropriate, will be treated separately in these Terms of Reference.
8.          The MM/T Consultants should be aware that the RD, at least for the
next few years, does not contemplate any major periodic asphalt maintenance work
by its direct labor; this type of work will be carried out by competitive tender.
III. MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES
9.          The primary objective in this sector will be to:
(a) implement a highway maintenance program and procedures as
recommended by the Consultants and/or as amended by the
MM/T Consultants (with approval of the Government); and
(b)  continually review and update the program to provide the
RD with an ongoing five-year maintenance program.
10.         In addition, the MM/T Consultants will generally assist the RD in:
(a) maintenance and workshop equipment bid analyses and procure-
ment (The Consultants have produced all specifications and
bidding documents which should have received the approval of
the Government by the time the MM/T Consultants mobilize);
(b) the setting up of one headquarte s, one sub-headquarters and
two regional workshop complexesT (the specifications and bidding
documents for these should have received the approval of the
Government-- and may be under construction--by the time the
MM/T Consultants mobilize);
(c) improving highway maintenance procedures;
(d) the setting up and operating of two permanent and two mobile
soils/materials laboratories;
(e) the utilization of existing borrow pits, quarries and other such
facilities that have previously been used during highway construc-
tion.
(f) locating and evaluating new sources of road surfacing materials
and subsequently developing their use;
(g) investigating and making recommendations for raod rehabilitation;
(h) establishing a functional cost accounting system with the RD for
the maintenance program (this responsibility is outlined in
Attachment B); and
(i) any other matters applicable to road maintenance or the main-
tenance of equipment.
1/ See Attachment C



ANNEX A-2
Page 3
11.         Operational, organizational and administrative procedures for the
maintenance program will be adopted through those recommendations of the MM!T
Consultants approved by the Government.
12.         To the maximum extent possible, the MM/T Consultants will be ex-
pected to train any counterparts supplied by the Government in any and/or all
categories of professional expertise represented on their team.
IV. TRAINING OBJECTIVES
13.         To determine the training requirements arising from the maintenance
program.
14.         To recommend, for the approval of the Government, a detailed train-
ing plan to meet the current and future requirements for maintenance personnel,
including workshop personnel.
15.         To formulate and implement the agreed upon traiming program, taking
into consideration that all major periodic asphalt maintenance work will be carried
out bv competitive tender for the next few years.
V. OPERATION OF THE SERVICES
A. Staffing, Maintenance Management
16.         The MI/T Consultants will provide a team (full and part-time, de-
pending on actual needs by discipline) for a period of three years to meet the
maintenance management and training objectives detailed above.
17.         In addition to this Headquarters staff,should the RD not be able
to provide sufficient supervisory personnel at the other three stations, the
lM/T Consultants may be called upon to assist the RD in recruiting competent
personnel.
18.         The VMMT Consultants will provide a personnel bar chart in their
proposal; the individual tenures may be varied, during the currency of the con-
tract, with the explicit approval of the Government.
B. Staffing, Training Program
19.         This subject is outlined in Attachment A (Annex D-1).
C. Work Plan, Maintenance Management
20.         During the currency of the contract, new highway maintenance and
workshop equipment will arrive in the Sultanate. The work plan and the duties
of the individual team members may therefore be considered in two phases:
(a) that prior to, and (b) that subsequent to the arrival of this new
equipment.
21.         In Phase (a), the team members will be primarily concerned with
assisting the RD to establish the institutional framework necessary to ensure
that the existing equipment will be effectively and efficiently utilized and
maintained.   The establishment of this necessary framework will include the
following:



ANMEX A-2
Page 4
(a) For highway maintenance operations:
- technical planning and programming of highway maintenance
works;
- the efficient operation of permanent headquarters, regional
maintenance centers, road camps and mobile soils/materials
laboratories; and
- the efficient operation of earthmoving and associated
equipment.
(b) For the maintenance of highway equipment:
- the efficient operation of the new and rehabilitated work-
shops an, servicing facilities (see Attachment C for loca-
tion). 1I
(c) For the administration of the Program:
-  implementation of recommended organizational improvements;
- installation of a proper functional cost accounting system,
including equipment charging, inventory control techniques
and other management information and works control
measures (see Attachment B); and
- assistance in recruiting personnel both for work and
training.
22.         In Phase (b), the Program activities will be extended to apply to
the increased stock of maintenance equipment and workshop facilities and to
the absorption of trainees into the maintenance organization. Emphasis should
be placed on:
- the day-to-day planning of work to achieve optimum use of labor
and equipment;
- the correct operation of equipment;
- on-job training of new Omani operators and mechanics;
- the recording of performance, costs and output to ensure ade-
quate physical and financial control of work-
- the operation of inventory control procedures to ensure
economic stock levels and effective reordering of spare parts
and materials; and
- the level of practical training of personnel that can be accom-
plished without affecting the efficiency or effectiveness of
the maintenance operations.
1/ Map 3.



ANNEX A-2
Page 5
D.  Work Plan, Training
23.         This subject is detailed in Attachment A.
E. C_nduct of and Responsibilities for The Services
24.         The responsibility for the conduct of the Services will rest with
the MM/T Consultants. The latter will continuously monitor the performance of
the road maintenance staff and will be responsible for initiating proposals to
the Government on changes in staffing, location or working of their own team
members which may, in their opinion, be desirable to achieve the objectives set
out in Articles 3 and 4.
25.         The MM/T Consultants, as a team and individually, will conduct The
Services with due diligence and professional expertise and will cooperate fully
with all relevant Government agencies and its consultants.
F. Coordination between the MJM/T Consultants and The Consultants
serving in a technical assistance capacity to the Government
26.         The Work Plan, outlined above, will necessitate coordination of The
Services and the work of the existing technical assistance consultants in the
period during which the two services overlap. Since the general technical
assistance now being provided to the RD under IBRD Loan 985-OM will be continued
under the present program, coordination will be necessary. In particular, the
development of a functional cost accounting system for the maintenance program
shall be coordinated with the work that the general consultants to the RD will
be performing in connection with their work on a general cost accounting system
for RD. While each of the consultants will be responsible for their own work,
the general technical assistance consultant will be responsible for the coordi-
nation. Should problems arise which cannot mutually be resolved by the two
consultants, the general technical assistance consultant will bring them to the
attention of the appropriate person in the RD for resolution.
VI. LOCAL FACILITIES AND SERVICES
TO BE PROVIDED BY THE GOVERNMENT
A. Cooperation of Government Agencies
27.         In connection with the MM/T Consultants' work which requires the
cooperation of other Government agencies, the Government will provide liaison
and will ensure that the MM/T Consultants have access to appropriate information
required during those services.
B. Facilities and Supporting Staff
28.         The Government will provide the MM/T Consultants with the following
facilities, either directly or by reimbursing the Consultants for the costs of:



ANNEX A-2
Page 6
3 electric typewriters
5 desk calculators
1 adding machine
1 duplicator/copy machine
5 four-wheel drive vehicles
3 saloon cars
1 fully bilingual (English,Arabic) highly qualified secretary
office supplies
other equipment and/or materials mutually agreed upon as being
necessary for the efficient and effective conduct of the
work.
29.         If the procurement of the above items, and any other items, are
arranged by the MM/T Consultants with the agreement of the Government, the
items will, nevertheless, remain the property of the Government and will be
used by the MM/T Consultants only in connection with their work under these
Terms of Reference.
30.         The Government shall also provide the MM/T Consultants with:
(i) appropriate office space;
(ii) appropriate office furniture;
(iii) office utilities;
(iv) post, telephone and telegraph;services for official business;
(v) local support staff, including local
travel and subsistence for local staff;
(vi) local travel costs, including air travel,
for official purposes to the Consultant's staff; and
(vii) printing and reproduction of reports except for the final
Final Report.
C.  Undertakings of the Government
31.         The Government undertakes to exempt the NI'I/T Consultants from or bear
the costs of any taxes, duties, fees, levies or other impositions imposed under
its laws and regulations, nationally or locally, on the MM/T Consultants' perso
personnel who are not citizens of Oman for payments that such personnel may have
to make in connection with the execution of the services including:
(i) equipment, materials and supplies brought into Oman for the
purpose of the execution of the services and which, at the
termination of the services shall be taken out of the country
by the MM/T Consultants; and
(ii) property brought into Oman, shipment of which is initiated
within two months after the date of arrival of the members
of the MM/T Consultants' personnel in Oman which will be
exported upon the departure of such personnel.



ANNEX A-2
Page 7
The Government will also undertake to:
(i)  to facilitate prompt clearance through customs of equipment,
materials and supplies required for the services and of the
personal effects of the MM/T Consultants' personnel;
(ii)  to provide the MM/T Consultants' personnel and their depen-
dents who are expatriates with multi-entry and exit visas
and the required residence permits and travel documents
required for their stay in Oman; and
(iii) to provide (rent) adequate, air-conditioned housing for the
MM/T Consultants' staff and their dependents.
32.         The Government shall, to the best of its ability, assign qualified
counterparts to work with key personnel of the MM/T Consultants for purposes of
liaison, training and review of the Consultants' findings and recommendations.
VII. REPORTS
33.         The MM/T Consultants shall submit the following reports (in English
unless otherwise noted):
(A) A Progress Report at three monthly intervals, briefly describ-
ing the work carried out during the previous three months and the proposec work
program for the following few months. The report shall include a summary anl
general statement on general progress and any problems or delays envisaged and
the proposed renedial action. Specifically, the reports shall cover, as appro-
priate, the following:
(a) for the three-month period prior to the date of the
report:
(i) details of the team member's participation in the
work;
(ii) the extent of local staff training carried out;
(iii) details of delays in implementation of the Program,
with the reasons therefor identified (shortage of
personnel, shortage of equipment or spares, ineffi-
cient planning, etc.);
(iv) the extent of implementation of job costing and
inventory control and the response of the RD to
these and other management control measures;
(v) a detailed financial summary showing the allocation
of expenditures for maintenance operations bv road
and road section;
(vi) the extent and quality of the work accomplished in
the execution of the Program;



ANNEX A-2
Page 8
(vii) the degree of cooperation received from the staff
of the RD;
(viii) the response of the RD to the new organization,
equipment and method; and
(ix) any factors which are militating against the
fullest use of the Services; and
(b) for the three-month period subsequent to the date of the
report:
(i) details and estimated costs of the RD's
proposed work program;
(ii) details of the proposed training program; and
(iii) details of circumstances which may hinder the
implementation of (i) and (ii).
The first quarterly report by the MM/T Consultants will recommend such amend-
ments to staffing of their team, with reasons therefor, as would be necessary,
in their opinion, to achieve the objectives of the Services. Recommendations
for amendments to the Program may also be contained in this first report as
well as subsequent reports.
(B) A draft report on a Five-Year Physical Maintenance Program for
1979/1983 within 12 months of the startIng date.
(C) A Final Report on a Five-Year Physical Maintenance Program
for 1979/1983 within two months of receiving comments on the draft report from
Government and the IBRD incorporating all revisions deemed appropriate by the
MM/T Consultants.
(D) A draft report on a Five-Year Physical Maintenance Program for
1980/1984 within 24 months of the starting date.
(E) A Final Report on a Five-Year Physical Maintenance Program for
1980/1984 within two months of receiving comments on the draft report from
Government and the IBRD incorporating all revisions deemed appropriate by the
MM/T Consultants.
(F) A draft report on a Five-Year Physical Maintenance Program for
1981/1985 within 32 months of the starting date.
(G) A Final Report on a Five-Year Physical Maintenance Program for
1981/1985 within two months of receiving comments on the draft reDort from
Government and the IBRD incorporating all revisions deemed appropriate by the
MM/T Consultants.
34.         Ten copies of all reports will be submitted to the Government and
five to the IERD.



ANNEX A-2
Page 9
Attachment B
FUNCTIONAL COST ACCOUNTING
The development of a functional cost accounting is an important component
of these Terms of Reference and will include, but not necessarily be limited to,
the following:
1.        The development of a system of functional cost accounts for the mainte-
nance program (RD) which will provide for effective planning, budgeting, monitor-
ing and control of maintenance expenditures. This system of accounts will be
developed in coordination with the technical consultants and shall be susceptible
to full and effective integration with the overall accounting system recommended
by The Consultants (and approved by the Government), including other cost account-
ing components. Minimally, the system will provide for:
(i) the recording of the costs for manpower, materials and equipment
associated with performance of specific categories of maintenance
work within specific management areas on specific sections of
roads, or on specific projects, as may be appropriate;
(ii) the recording of the costs associated with the operation and mainte-
nance of equipment repair shops and other facilities operated in
conjunction with the maintenance of equipment, in such a manner as
to provide the information need for effective planning, budgeting and
financial control;
(iii) the recording of all information necessary to keep track of the current
status and usage of all inventories established in conjunction with
the maintenance operation, including road building materials, equip-
ment spare parts and supplies; and
(iv) the recording of the costs associated with equipment operation and
maintenance, as related to each piece of (major) equipment, including
the costs of routine preventive maintenance, repairs of breakdowns
(separating parts and labour), and operating costs, including those
for fuel, lubricants and other expendable supplies. The equipment
accounting system shall provide for ready determination of the total
annual cost of ownership, operation and care of the equipment.
2.        The development and implementation of a system of reports to be utilized
in field offices and shops, to provide, appropriately summarize and record, on a
timely basis, all of the information required for the effective implementation of
the maintenance and equipment accounting systems. This system of reports will be
coordinated with The Consultants in order to provide for all accounting needs.
3.        Recommendations for programming, budgeting and accounting procedures to
be adbpted by the department for the allocation of funds and control of expendi-
tures in the maintenance regions, and for equipment depreciation, inventory manage-
ment and analysis of road maintenance costs.
May 1977



ANNEX B
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
Draft Terms of Reference
General Technical Assistance
Roads Department
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        (i) The Roads Department (RD) under International Bank for Reconstruc-
tion and Development (IBRD) Loan 985-OM, is receiving general technical assist-
ance in its overall operations and in the preparation of an overall highway
organization and maintenance program. These services are now nearing completion.
(ii) These terms of reference refer to continued general technical assistance
for aspects of the RD responsibilities described below. The period for the ser-
vices will be 36 months. (iii) Management of the highway maintenance program,
as well as a related training program, will be provided independently through
technical assistance under separate terms of reference.
II. OBJECTIVES
2.        The purpose of the services are:
(i) to develop and continually update a detailed five-year program
of highway capital investments based on economic priorities
and a prospective program of highway investments for an addi-
tional five years;
(ii) review, as required, highway and bridge designs;
(iii) review, as required, construction contracts, specifications and
all related bidding documents;
(iv) assist, as required, in the analyses of tenders for highway con-
struction and improvement projects and for tenders of equipment,
spare parts and supplies not related to the maintenance program;
(v) as required, prepare terms of reference (TOR) for and monitor
highway feasibility studies;
(vi)  review and make recommendations for appropriate revisions to the
cost accounting system used by the DR, coordinating for compat-
ability the functional accounting system to be developed for the
highway maintenance program by the Maintenance Management/Train-
ing Consultants;



ANNEX B
Page 2
(vii) assist the RD in establishing a data bank for highway planning,
especially traffic data and related information;
(viii) assess the needs and make recommendation for special studies which
may be required for highway planning and/or other functions of
the RD;
(ix) update the highway user cost study as required;
(x)  study highway user charges in Oman in terms of economic efficiency
and budget implications and make recommendations as to such charges;
(xi) provide estimates of annual budget allocations (by major recurrent
and capital expenditure items) as required; and
(xii) provide day-to-day technical assistance to the RD as required.
III. SCOPE OF CONSULTING SERVICES
A.  General
3.        In order to attain the objectives detailed above,the RD proposes to
invite consultants to provide approximately 100 man-months of technical assist-
ance over a three-year period. The foreign exchange costs of these services are
expected to be financed as part of an IBRD loan. The Consultant shall perform
the functions and services herein described. In performance of the services the
Consultant shall cooperate fully with the Government, which is to assign counter-
part personnel to work in close cooperation with the Consultant and provide the
data and services outlined in Part V. The Consultant, however, shall be solely
responsible for the findings and recommendations contained in their reports.
B. Highway Planning
4.        The Consultant shall review present planning for highway capital investments
and develop the methodology for preparing a highway master plan which will be
amenable to continuous updating. The methodology shall be consistent with the
requirements for the relatively simple transport network of Oman. In this con-
text, any traffic assignment model, or other model, recommended for use shall
already be fully operational and documented.
5.        After acceptance of the proposed methodology for development of the
master plan (see Section IV, "Reports") the Consultant shall prepare a highway
master plan which develops a detailed five-year highway capital investment program
and a prospective program of highway investment for an additional five years using
the agreed methodology. The program shall be amenable to continuous updating.
In conjunction with the development of the master plan, the Consultant will
assist the RD in establishing a data bank related to highway planning, including
standard procedures for the collection and analysis of traffic data (volume and
classification counts, speed studies, travel time and delay studies, intersec-
tion counts, capacity studies and origin and destination surveys).
6.        In developing the highway master plan the Consultant shall review the
previously completed highway user cost study and update it as required.



ANNEX B
Page 3
7.        As part of their input to the highway planning process in Oman, the
Consultant shall study highway user charges in Oman in terms of economic effi-
ciency and budget implication and make recommendations as to the distribution
and level of such charges. In making the analysis of user charges the Consultant
will consider the relative costs that should be allocated to different vehicle
classes in relation to certain base costs to be shared by all vehicles (joint
costs) and the additional costs of construction and maintenance engendered by
the particular vehicle class (incremental costs). Overall costs to be assessed
to users will be predicated on Government neutrality between different transport
modes and between investments in transport and other investments (i.e. highway
users will not be subsidized or penalized).
8.        On the basis of the highway master plan and in the context of the rec-
ommended highway user charges, the Consultant will provide estimates of annual
budget allocations by recurrent and capital expenditure items. (Note, that in
the short run user charges may fall behind meeting capital costs in a time of
expanding the highway network. If properly formulated, and periodically updated,
user charges should "repay" capital investment in the long run. There is just
as much equity, however, in spreading costs over the useful life of a highway as
there is in any other public or private capital investment.)
9.        The Consultant will also make such recommendations for special studies
needed for highway planning as they consider necessary.
C. Other Technical Assistance to the RD
10.       The Consultant shall also review, as required, highway and bridge de-
signs, construction contracts, specifications and all related bidding documents,
assist in the analysis of tenders for highway construction and improvement projects
and for equipment and spare parts not related to the highway maintenance program.
11.       The Consultant will also assess the need for and recommend any special
studies which may be required for the effective functioning of the RD, prepare
TOR for and monitor highway feasibility studies as required and review and make
recommendations for appropriate revisions to the cost accounting system used by
the RD.
12.       In conjunction with work on the cost accounting system of the RD, the
Consultant will coordinate his work with that of the maintenance management/
training consultant in developing a functional accounting system for the highway
maintenance program. While each of the consultants will be separately respon-
sible for their own work, the general technical assistant Consultant will be
responsible for the coordination. Should problems arise which cannot mutually
be resolved by the two consultants, the general technical assistance Consultant
will bring them to the attention of the appropriate person in the RD for
resolution.
13.       The Consultant will also provide such day-to-day technical assistance
in the field of highway administration, engineering and planning as the RD may
require to the extent that budgetary limitations allow.



ANNEX B
Page 4 2
IV. REPORTS
14.       The Consultant shall submit the following reports (in English unless
otherwise noted):
(a) A Progress Report at two monthly intervals, breifly describing
the work carried out during the previous two months and the pro-
posed work program for the following few months. The report shall
include a summary and general statement on progress in the develop-
ment of the highway master plan, any problems or delays envisaged
and the proposed remedial action. The report shall include details
on the Consultant's staff on the project including a current and
projected staff bar chart. Six copies to the Government, four
copies to the IBRD.
(b) An Inception Report within three months of the project starting
date. This report shall detail the methodology proposed for the
development of the highway master plan. Ten copies to the Govern-
ment, five copies to the IBRD.
(c) A draft report within five months of the starting date with an up-
date of highway user costs in Oman. Six copies to Government,
four copies to IBRD.
(d) A Final Report on updated User Costs within two months of receiv-
ing comments on the draft report from the Government and IBRD
incorporating all revisions deemed appropriate by the Consultant.
Ten copies to Government. ten coDies to IBRD.
(e) A draft report within 12 months of the starting date with an ap-
propriate cost accounting system to be used by RD. Six copies to
Government and four copies to IBRD.
(f) A Final Report on an appropriate cost accounting system to be used
by RD within three months of receiving comments on the draft from
Government and the IBRP incorporating all revisions deemed appro-
priate by the Consultant. Ten copies to Government, ten copies
to IBRD.
(g) A draft report on the highway master plan within 18 months of the
starting date. Ten copies to Government, six copies to IBRD.
(h) A Final Report on the highway master plan within three months of
receiving comments on the draft report from Government and the
IBRD incorporating all revisions deemed appropriate by the Consult-
ant. Ten copies to Government, ten copies to IBRD.
(i) A draft report on Highway User Charges within 24 months of the
starting date. Six copies to Government, four copies to IBRD.
(j) A Final Report on Highway User Charges within three months of re-
ceiving comments on the draft report from Government and the IBRD
incorporating all revisions deemed appropriate by the Consultant.
Ten copies to the Government, ten copies to the IBRD.



ANNEX B
Page 5
(k) An updated highway user cost report within 32 months of the start-
ing date. (No draft should be required.) Ten copies to Govern-
ment, ten copies to IBRD.
(1) A Final Report within 36 months of the starting date detailing
(i) work performed; (ii) progress made in implementing recommenda-
tions; (iii) benefits resulting from the implementation of recom-
mendations; (iv) any areas in which progress has been unsatisfac-
tory; and (v) recommendations for any further technical assistance.
Ten copies to Government, ten copies to IBRD.
(m)  In addition, the Consultant shall produce other reports which may
be required during the course of the technical assistance as agreed
upon by the Government and the Consultant.
V. LOCAL SERVICES AND FACILITIES TO BE PROVIDED
BY THE GOVERNMENT
A. Cooperation of Government Agencies
15.       In connection with the Consultant's work which requires the cooperation
of other Government agencies, the Government will provide liaison and will
ensure that the Consultant has access to appropriate information required during
those services.
B. Facilities and Supporting Staff
16.       The Government will provide the Consultant with the following facili-
ties, either directly or by reimbursing the Consultants for the costs of:
2 electric typewriters
2 desk calculators
1 adding machine
1 duplicator/copy machine
2 four wheel drive vehicles
2 saloon cars
1 fully bilingual (English, Arabic) highly qualified secretary
Office supplies
Other equipment and/or materials mutually agreed upon as being neces-
sary for the efficient and effective conduct of the work.
17.       If the procurement of the above items, and any other items,are arranged
by the Consultant with the agreement of the Government, the items will, neverthe-
less, remain the property of the Government and will be used by the Consultant
only in connection with their work under these TOR.
18.       The Government shall also provide the Consultant with:
(i) appropriate office space;
(ii) appropriate office furniture;
(iii) office utilities;
(iv) post, telephone and telegraph services for official business;



ANNEX B
Page 6
(v) local support staff, including local travel and subsistence for
local staff;
(vi) local travel costs, including air travel, for official purposes
to the Consultant's staff; and
(vii) printing and reproduction of reports except for the final Final
Report.
C. Undertakings of the Government
19.       The Government undertakes to exempt the Consultant from or bear the costs
of any taxes, duties, fees, levies or other impositions imposed under its laws
and regulations, nationally or locally, on the Consultant's personnel who are not
citizens of Oman for payments that such personnel may have to make in connection
with the execution of the services including:
(i) equipment, materials and supplies brought into Oman for the pur-
pose of the execution of the services and which, at the termina-
tion of the services shall be taken out of the country by the
Consultant; and
(ii) property brought into Oman, shipment of which is initiated within
two months after the date of arrival of the members of the Consult-
ant's personnel in Oman which will be exported upon the departure
of such personnel.
20.       The Government will also undertake to:
(i) to facilitate prompt clearance through customs of equipment, mate-
rials and supplies required for the services and of the personal
effects of the Consultant's personnel;
(ii) to provide (rent) the Consultant's personnel and their dependents
who are expatriates with multi-entry and exit visa and the required
residence permits and travel documents required for their stay in
Oman; and
(iii) to provide adequate, air-conditioned housing for the Consultants'
staff and their dependents.
21.       The Government shall, to the best of its ability, assign qualified
counterparts to work with key personnel of the Consultants for purposes of liai-
son, training and review of the Consultant's findings and recommendations.
May 1977



ANNEX C
OMAN
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Estimated Disbursemrent Schedule
(US$ thousand)
IBRD Fiscal Year                    Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                          at End of Quarter
1977/78
March 31, 1978                               1,700
June 30, 1978                                3,800
1978/79
Sept 30, 1978                                5,300
Dec 31, 1978                                 6,300
March 31, 1979                               7,400
June 30, 1979                                8,400
1979/80
Sept 30, 1979                                8,900
Dec 31, 1979                                 9,700
March 31, 1980                              11,600
June 31, 1980                               13,400
1980/81
Sept 30, 1980                               14,000
Dec 31, 1980                                14,500
March 31, 1981                              15,000
Source: Mission Estimates, February 1977
MaY 1977






ANNEX D-1
Page 1
Attachment A
Terms of Reference
Training
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        This Attachment A forms a component part of the Terms of
Reference for The Services to which it is attached.
2.        In 1974 an IBRD-financed technical assistance project
(Loan 985-OM) provided a basis for the development of an Omani Highway
Five-Year Maintenance Program.
3.        A review of the present situation indicates that maintenance
of the existing highway network, plus the introduction of a comprehensive
training program for maintenance personnel entailing the construction of
a Training Center, the provision of training equipment and expatriate
instructors, is now of critical importance.
II. OBJECTIVES
4.        The objectives of the training program are:
(a) to determine the training requirements related to the
maintenance program for the Omani road network as agreed to by
the Ministry of Communications and Public Services (MC)
and the Roads Department (RD);
(b)  to recommend for MC/RD and IBRD's approval a detailed training
plan to meet current and future needs for highway and equip-
ment maintenance personnel;
(c) to formulate and implement an agreed training program, taking
into consideration that all maintenance work related to periodic
maintenance of asphalt roads (i.e. resealing, pavement overlays
etc.) will be carried out by competitive contract for a number of
years.
III. SCOPE OF SERVICES
A.   General
5.        In the conduct of the training, the MM/T Consultant will be
directly responsible to the Director of the RD and shall cooperate fully
with the Government and any other public authority involved. The
1/ These TOR will be part of the Maintenance Management/Training
Technical Assistance (see Annex A).



ANNEX D-1
Page 2
Government will assign the necessary counterpart personnel and provide
the data, studies, services and facilities outlined in Article V.
The MM/T Consultant shall coordinate its work with that of appropriate
IBRD missions and other consultants, if any, but shall be solely
responsible for the findings, conclusions and recommendations contained
in their report.
B.   Assessment of Training Needs
6.        To assess the current and future manpower training needs, the
team, among other things, shall:
(a) identify the skills and knowledge required for efficient
maintenance operations by personnel at all levels;
(b) evaluate the capability and potential of the manpower available
in order to better assess training needs;
(c) determine how existing personnel can be made available for
training without interfering with ongoing operations;
(d) identify possible source of recruitment, including the
Vocational Training Center of Darsait, and discuss likely
constraints with the RD;
(e) estimate the physical training facilities, didactic materials
and training equipment required to carry out an agreed training
program;
(f) identify and evaluate other existing training facilities in
Oman, including the Vocational Training Center of Darsait, and
determine their suitability for training of the maintenance
personnel;
(g) determine the number and categories of expatriate personnel who
will be required for the next five years or until Omani
instructors can be trained to take over;
(h) determine the number and categories of Omani instructors required
for the next five years and establish a priority list of those
who should be trained first; and
(i) assist with the establishment of a permanent Training Unit within
the RD including its structure, functions and related budget.



ANNEX D-1
Page 3
C.   Recommendations for a Comprehensive Training Plan
for Maintenance Personnel
7.        Upon completion of the assessment under Article III-B above,
the MM/T Consultant shall:
(a) submit an Inception Report presenting the results of the assessment
together with detailed recommendations for a comprehensive plan
which would meet the training needs, including:
(i)   program objectives;
(ii)   fields of training and number of personnel (by category/
function) to be trained;
(iii)   proposed methodology, including the use of a training
production unit(TPU) wherever possible;
(iv)   types and number of courses/programs which can be carried
out at the Vocational Training Center in Darsait;
(v)   training time-schedule;
(vi)   costing of the training plan as follows;
-  civil works: dormitory, classrooms, workshops,
stores etc., broken down between local currency
and foreign exchange components;
- training equipment and materials: (major road
maintenance equipment; machines and hand tools for
workshops; didactic materials; and audio-visual
equipment and training aids);
- training abroad; and,
- recurrent expenditures.
(b) develop a monitoring and evaluation system within the program
to both monitor the results of training while it is being carried
out and, later, to evaluate the effectiveness of completed programs.
D.   Formulation and Implementation of Agreed Training Programs
8.        After having reached an agreement with the MC/RD on the
assessment of training needs and the recommendations for a plan to meet
these needs under Article III-C (above), the MM/T Consultant shall:
(a) develop detailed training programs, procedures and outline of
courses;






ANNEX DL-1
(b)  implement these programs, procedures and courses;
(c) assist in the establishment of a permanent Training Unit within
the DR which would take over and continue all training activities
after the departure of the MM/T Consultant; and,
(d) monitor graduates of the training programs.
IV. REPORTS
9.        The MM/T Consultant shall commence work on the assignment within 30
calendar days after the date of notice to proceed, and shall submit the follow-
ing reports in the English language within the time limits specified:
(a) an Inception Report within three months after starting date detailing
training needs and containing recommendations for a comprehensive
training plan to meet these needs. The Inception Report shall contain
a concise first chapter summarizing the body of the report; and,
(b)  quarterly Progress Reports following the Inception Report.   The
Progress Reports shall briefly describe the work program for the
the previous three months and the proposed work program for the
following few months. The reports shall include a summary and
details (bar-chart) on the progress of the training program, any
problems of delays envisioned and the proposed remedial action.
The reports shall also include details of the consultant's staff
on the training component of the project, including a current and
projected staff bar-chart.
V. DATA, LOCAL SERVICES AND FACILITIES TO BE PROVIDED BY GOVERNMENT
A. Data
10.       The Government will provide the MM/T Consultant with all information that
may be reasonably required for the services including reports prepared by Government
Agencies and their consultants.
B. Cooperation of Government Agencies
11.       In connection with  the MM/T Consultant's work that requires the cooperation
of other Government Agencies, the Government will provide liaison with such Agencies
and ensure that the MM/T Consultant has access to all information required to satis-
factorily comply with these Terms of Reference.
C. Counterpart Staff
12.       The Government will assign the appropriate number of counterparts to work
with the MM/T Consultant. The counterparts will be assigned on a full-time basis
for the purpose of the liaison and training. The MM/T Consultant will undertake to
involve the counterparts in all phases of the training activities, including data
collection, assessment of training needs, design of suitable programs and training



ANNEX D-1
Page 5
materials and finally in the implementation and evaluation of the training
courses. The counterparts should, on completion of the contract, be assigned
as permanent training officers or instructors within the Training Unit of the
RD.
D. Facilities and Supporting Staff
13.       The facilities and supporting staff to be provided by the Government for
the training component of the Maintenance Management/Training technical assistance
are covered and included in the Terms of Reference dealing with the Maintenance
Management component.
E. Undertakings of the Government
14.       The undertakings of the Government applicable to the training component
of the Maintenance Management/Training technical assistance are detailed in, and
are identical to, those in the Terms of Reference for the Maintenance Management
component.
May 1977



ANNEX D-2
Page 1
APPRAISAIS OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
Establishment of a Training Structure
Roads Department
1.        The capacity of the Training Unit (TU) of Roads Department (RD) should
be established to support the implementation of the Five-Year Maintenance Pro-
gram. The training structure will be established by: (a) constructing a Train-
ing Center (TC) in Azaiba; and (b) setting up a Training Production lJnit (TPU).
2.        The bulk of the training could then be carried out in the field urder the
supervision of training staff, using the TPU to provide on-the-job training. Under
the time constraints imposed by the five-year program, the formation of a semi-
autonomous TPU would be the most efficient method of coping with the large
scale training needs. First, the TPU offers an opportunity for more cate-
gories and levels of personnel to be trained on site, under normal working
conditions, and in a shorter period of time than would be possible otherwise.
Second, the TPU permits a smaller capital investment in fixed facilities.
Third, the per capita cost of putting a trainee through the TC program would
decrease because of the training through production element of the program.
3.        At least,  two expatriate instructors must be  hired  to run the
TPU and a number of key personnel would have to be trained as supplementary
instructors (one Senior Inspector-Roads plus three Foremen-Roads and three
Grade  I  Mechanics)  or recruited from the open market.   TPU activities
would add to  the  supervisory  activity  of the  TU staff.  It  would  re-
quire setting up a supply system within the TC to ensure that the
TPU is properly stocked with spare parts, materials,  lubricants, etc.  It
would also mean coordination between TU headquarters and the RD Work Centers
with regard to training and field maintenance activities.
4.        Responsibilities for training will be divided as follows:
A. TU and TC
(i) planning, implementation, supervision, quality control of
all training activities, including policy and budgeting;
(ii) coordination with the TPU, the three RD Divisions and other
national training institutions;
(iii) pedagogical support;
(iv) supply system (spare parts and materials for TPU);
(v) evaluation of training; and



ANNEX D-2
Page 2
(vi) implementation of the following training programs:
(a) instructors for TC and TPU;
(b) all roads supervisors other than overseers grades I,
II and III;
(c) surveyor assistants;
(d) storekeepers;
(e) retraining of plant operators at more advanced levels
of achievement, and initial training of new operators
and drivers (tippers/trucks);
(f) mechanics grades I and II (second part of program for
grade II to be carried out in the field);
(g) mechanical inspectors; and
(h) electricians.
B. TPU Field Training
(i) The scope of TPU activities covers training and upgrading of
various categories and levels of personnel under normal
working conditions and while carrying out regular highway
operations. The categories involved could be:
(a) overseers;
(b) equipment operators and drivers;
(c) mechanics; and to a lesser extent
(d) storekeepers and survey assistants.
(ii) As trainees complete their programs they would be assigned to
operating units. Limited classroom facilities would have to
be provided for the TPU such as tents or temporary camp
buildings, as well as the required training materials and stan-
dard tools.
TPU Training Cycle for Overseers
5.        Generally a TPU training cycle for overseers in the Civil Engineering
Section would be 12 weeks. The recommended number of overseers per cycle is 12,
with each having completed 4 weeks theoretical training at the TC. Their
program in the TPU would continue as follows: divided into 4 groups of
3, each group receives 3 weeks instruction on the main functions of: (i) drain-
age and culverts; (ii) earthworks, equipment operators and drivers; (iii) struc-
tures; and (iv) administration. Thus, each trainee is taught not only his



ANNEX D-2
Page 3
specialty but also the 3 other supervisory functions with which he will be in
contact on the work site. At the end of each 12-week period, the 12 overseers
will be ready for assignment to operating units.
TPU Training Cycle for Equipment Operators and Drivers
6.        The TPU should carry in its inventory 6 pieces of heavy equipment
(2 graders, 1 dozer, 1 loader, 1 roller and 1 wheeled tractor) plus 6 tippers
and 3 service trucks. Each training cycle is geared to handle 24 operators
and 12 drivers.  The operators are divided into 6 groups:
2 graders  =  8 operators
1 dozer    =  4 operators
1 loader   -  4 operators
1 roller   =  4 operators
1 tractor  =  4 operators
Before being assigned to the TPU, trainees should receive instruction in pre-
ventive maintenance on the 6 types of heavy maintenance equipment at the TC.
A 12-week course consists of 8 weeks basic training on the specific
piece of equipment for which the trainee has been selected, plus 4 weeks learrn-
ing to operate a second-priority piece of equipment. At the end of the cycle,
each trainee should be familiar with 2 types of equipment. The drivers folloxw
a 12-week course on tippers and service trucks and their operation under normal
work site conditions. Upon completion of the 12-week course, the 24 operators
and 12 drivers will be ready for assignment to operating units.
TPU Training Cycle for Mechanics
7.        Each cycle car. accommodate 12 junior mechanics divided into 3 groups:
equipment repairs - 6
vehicle repairs    =  4
quality control    =  2
The mechanics spend 16weeks in an equipment repair workshop of the TC, then 4 weeks
on vehicle repairs and 4 weeks on quality control. Upon completion of the 24-week
course, the 12 mechanics will be ready for assignment to operating units. After
1 or 2 years field service, the better performing graduates may be selected for
further upgrading to higher levels at the TC.
Output of a TPU
8.        Depending on trainee standard, weather conditions, topography and soil
conditions, the average training cycle in the Civil Engineering Section should
be 3 to 4 months, and from 6 to 8 months in the Mechanical Section. Accordingly,
1 TPU should be expected to produce the following number of trained personnel
per year:



ANNEX D-2
Page 4
Civil Engineering Section
1)  overseers         48
2)  operators         96
3)  drivers      =   48
192
Mechancial Section
1)  mechanics         24
Total       216
With an annual per-unit output of 216, the total output9?f one TPU in 3 years
would be 648.
Typical Training Production Unit - TPU
CHIEF OF
UNIT
| CIVIL ENGINEER-  |                       MECHANICAL |
_ING SECTION       ll SECTION                           l
RA       ATHOR        STRUCTURES       PAT       VEHICLES    QUALITY
Staffing
One   -  Senior Road Construction/Maintenance Superintendent plus
One   -  Senior Road Inspector and three Road Foreman-Instructors and
Three - Mechanics Grade I-Instructors
May 1977



ANNEX E
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OMAN
METHODOLOGY USED FOR ECONOMIC EVALUATION
OF ROUTINE MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
1.        The economic justification for some level of routine maintenance is
apparent. Costs of preventing, through maintenance, the failure of a roadway
are less than the periodic rebuilding (or the original building) of the road-
way. Thus, if the original construction, or the reconstruction, of the road-
way is economically justified it is economically justified to maintain the
road. (Indeed, a proper economic analysis for a road investment will include
maintenance as one element of the cost stream.) Even if a particular road
improvement was not economically justified in the first place it usually
is economically justified to maintain the road since the original investment
has to be considered as sunk cost, and the marginal costs of maintenance are
relatively low. Indeed, since a substantial part of road maintenance costs
are directly related to traffic on the roadway, being low when traffic is low,
it is only at minimal levels of traffic that maintenance is not justified (and
the road should be effectively abandoned).
2.        The optimal level of maintenance should depend on the marginal
costs of increasing maintenance effort (beyond that which would just prevent
the roadway from complete failure or impassability) vis-a-vis the decrease
in user costs. In the theoretical sense this will vary between various road
sections, depending on the various incremental costs and benefits and each
section could be subject to an economic analysis (of the maintenance effort).
As a practical matter, however, the physical and adminstrative requirements of
a maintenance program (as well as the fact that roads do not necessarily all
deteriorate according to a theoretical schedule, and that such "fine tuning"
is really not justified by the actual empirical data, especially data on user
costs) means that certain discrete levels of maintenance are planned and then
applied with flexibility in the field. Nevertheless, in the development of a
maintenance program the economic analysis serves to estabish the reasonableness
and to verify the size and scope of the program.
3.        For the purposes of obtaining a B:C ratio for the proposed routine
maintenance program the economic costs of the program were compared with eco-
nomic benefits resulting from savings in operating cost to road users. These
were the only benefits taken into account. For purposes of this evaluation
an opportunity cost of capital of 15% and 20% were used, which is certainly
considerably higher than the actual value in Oman at this time. Since the
present paved road system is relatively new (average age about two years
and only 10 km of road as old as seven years) the costs of potential future
repairs due to deterioration of pavement assuming lack of maintenance (or



ANNEX E
Page 2
alternatively, the much higher operating costs for vehicles), beyond the five
year time span of the analysis was not considered. To the extent that there
would be such additional costs (i.e., costs engendered when the roadway
deteriorates to the point that it needs extraordinary maintenance or recon-
struction) the analysis understates the benefits from the proposed maintenance
program. Also, any additional costs which might accrue on unpaved roads when
lack of proper maintenance could cause damage to cargo during transport or
result in additional costs from spoilage due to delay in transport was not
considered since they were not critical to the analysis.
4.        Road user saving represented the difference in vehicle operating
costs betwen the present level of maintenance and the proposed level of main-
tenance. Vehicle operating costs for Oman were established by the technical
assistance consultant to the RD and were presented in a special report (Tables
8-11).
5.        The economic cost estimates for the proposed maintenance program
were developed from the specified requirements for the program (Table 21).
Costs of the existing maintenance were projected on the basis of the present
maintenance effort. Traffic over the road network was forecast on the basis
of projected vehicle fleet growth to 1982 which in turn was based on general
economic trends and anticipated development as reflected in the Government's
Five-Year Plan (Table 7 and Map 2).
6.        Projected traffic was divided into heavy and light vehicles and
into average daily traffic (ADT) categories by paved and unpaved surface
types for each of the years analyzed. For each of the road surface types
and ADT categories (a total of six overall) a weighted average of operating
cost per vehicle-kilometer was established for the recommended maintenance
program and for the maintenance effort currently being applied by the RD.
The present maintenance effort is inadequate and if maintenance in the future
were limited to this level there would be a deterioration of the road network
which would be exacerbated year by year, especially on those links with
growing traffic. This deterioration would gradually increase future user
costs, which have been estimated by adjusting present user costs by certain
factors reflecting road deterioration (Tables 12-20).
7.        As deterioration progresses the annual increase in user costs
could be expected to be exponential in nature, until the road, as a road,
no longer existed. However, since only a five-year period was being con-
sidered deterioration on the relatively "new" paved roads would not reach
this point. Deterioration on some links of the unpaved network with
relatively high traffic could be significant. However, since there is
some maintenance being performed on these links they are not expected to
deteriorate to the point of being unusable.
8.        The factors used in the analysis were calculated from (economic)
vehicle operating costs on five surface conditions for paved and unpaved
surfaces by vehicle category. Taxis, pick-ups, Land Rovers and trucks were
considered to be in commercial use and their operating costs included drivers



ANNEX E
Page 3
salaries. The cost for passenger cars, other than taxis and Land Rovers,
excluded drivers salaries or any value for leisure time. A single, composite,
vehicle operating cost was calculated from the weighted average of the traffic
composition observed in traffic surveys.
9.        The B:C ratio for the proposed maintenance program was obtained by
comparing economic costs to economic benefits which result from savings in
operating cost to road users at an opportunity cost of capital of 15% and 20%
(para. 3). Since benefits would be lower if projected traffic were less, and
the ER would be lower if project costs of the maintenance program were higher
an evaluation was made assuming both a 20% decrease in benefits and a 20%
increase in cost at an opportunity cost of capital of 20%. Results clearly
indicate the economic justification for the proposed routine highway main-
tenance program (Table 28).
May 1977






APPRAISAL OF A
HIGHWAY PROJECT
OMAN
ACTUAL WORKING STRUCTURE, ROADS DEPARTMENT
R   Minister Oi
Communi-
catCotrs
|Technical
|    Director
Director
of Roads
I                      I                                                            
I            |  Maintenance                                           Mechanical                                          Administra
g        | ~~~Division      || Division                                         |                                     ive D ivis ion 
Regional                                                                                                  ecord
Terriorie                                 Shos                                        _       SectionsI
and Work Centers
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 Stores, l                       eton
VVorld Ban k-17088
MaY 1 977






-l-A a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
o~~                          X   ~  _0o0     ' _ ;
0           0                  
L_ _        _       l _
0;N:       ,''    S,,,, 






IBRD 1277'
5P'                             8 4'                            5'6$otrrcoi.n/Ho-m \             58'                             68'                              0,7/        8Al 1970
Pn.> e    s,a o n   5 u / f            6                        Kt                  8                          I   R    A    N                                  5                z4
2                                                                         'K                           -~ ,  ---2PAKISTAN
/                                                                   9                                                                                                  4
Al hijoiroh
-5~~~~~~~~4-
-24 ~~~~~~~~~~\0   stn                                                                 C     /       6    Oma SKWnbuo
$7                             ~~~~~~~~~~~Abah. b~J '
\~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~/ov ,r.jh  8Anrr
-24-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
~~~ 4+~~~~~
ALkw                                              W0 h4                                   r      a     a
-2                                                                         \  5f &4       i^,o    Fnh  +&Awo  / 'Aeor,                                                                             22'
!~~~~~~~                                                     ~~~           -<Cas   i                 5   'o       w    
I                                                 /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
S A U D I                 A            R A B I Ands
a            / !                            /                         7.]   v                       SLULTANATE OF OMAN
3'/,,Z   ,ts -  Appraisal of a Highway Maintenance Project
2, u)   /               /      $                         M (   0 > VSlR<yA          TRANSPORTATION  SYSTEM
-2C'                                                             /H.-m                       k                                                                   Pavd                               4'd
c                                                                   -------- PavedPeoads under constrwution
'                           1-1                        Sos "nuni -                                       Grovel, mscotimed roads
, ~ -     - ,,r        ,-                                          "____P., |O                                   ___ Ewlarth, niatnMined modS
-  -                                                                                                in lternotioneo airport
-/  i  Monicossor      t>b/ K--                          8 -   \\03+  Airuirips
-------   -             '  s1-  '       -'              '  'T,     01 fields
I /   ,   K   /   -.,    ,   . 0|, ,,.,    - ,- ,-- ,,_,_Oil pipelines
86~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Od4es, towns, Midnges
F    ,                                                         -t -                                                            -  - Elevatioas, 50meters cud obo0e
\  *  B  _  ,'/  / O''. / 93X i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lternotionol boutndaries
PEOPLE'S  K                -- , 1 ,         V    F 1                                                                                                                                6-          6
DEMOCRATIC           \8tvri 
, .8,                        .;. - S- Xe.>N.' f-.6.'    ' l                                                                                                             i - nf_ ~ o
REPUBLIC                                                                               , rt  ,A
OF   YEMEN                Y'    su                                                                                                                                          u-c,
.s A roa b qos7  <  n          e                     r tkn  aee 06 l lv4er} tr6                   o 6il; mr5 4o    e'56              ,Ehb,8#  < 'v 
;    i  5+h'            *6                     worM$ nksetils 55/AzoL                       6p'         .5 } ;: h X  vsj,xP>! 5iiW,$-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SULTNAT






UN TED    ARAB    
L  is
2A '-
L to / \ I g . . .: ? . t  0  ,  0
ta/p-- ;.CuS                                                        ;0000;;  ;v024aSS,.  C
N'               <        /      X         f '''< ' S0d'dl' i' f ; "t'',    fffff fff 'V7
:   ;    t   i''EV";f0'''''':''-:f,? V00:/
/                  : ::000Xg;u                              S0
/     3*      
ot                  /    f 0     - -  0    C          i  $8A   0 t       CL a      t    Z 
</ 4s,,,!       ,   ~  '    '  -  ; 0       00 0;   0    ' ; 0r g     0-  32   nI
_  /_






MAP 3
!            ~~~~~~N 
SULTANATE                                     MA3S               0
OF                      FURAIMI       5     o"AR
OMAN                          ia r            \  AL KWABURA
A-hINvE  AIAACC 5-7A7/'A/s  7b   c                                      UTRo
L    Mo tSTEMASCg S tA TlO&'S  2  8g ?Iv   < a +UuScAT
COA15STRUCTEcPD                                                        AL I4UST A 4Y
A    hi Nrc _ANC, ,5A7A/OV5 _                       SRI  ALTA                 QURAIA-
ONSTR/JCTt.O  A/ 960.~  *L4A%
.                          ____,cr   s/e. t<              +v 
. S A U  D5I -C IA 19
-           A R A B I A                                            A t:  k
i /
k             /*AM/
AS DUQbA
,,_ t I                               A  L AYA'x~    
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
74~~~~ 4                     0) 
) '/_'" tAM
SOUTH +
YEMENI                      AL'L
R A,.S uT            <<



