Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14715
TMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
COMPETITIVENESS AND REGULATORY
REFORM ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(LOAN 3429-IVC, CREDIT 2324-IVC, CREDIT 2324-1-IVC)
JUNE 27, 1995
Trade, Finance and Investment Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
The CFAF is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of FF I to CFAF 100 following the January
12, 1994 devaluation of the CFAF from a ratio of FF I to CFAF 50. The French Franc is
currently floating.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASDI          Advance payment on various taxes/Presumptive Tax (Acompte sur Divers Imp6ts)
AGEPE         State-Owned Placement Agency (Agence d'Etudes et de Promotion de 1'Emploi)
AfDB          African Development Bank
CEPICI        Investment one-stop window (Centre de Promotion des Investissementjde C6te
d 'Ivoire)
DCGTx         State-Owned Research Structure (Direction et Contr6le des Grands Travaux)
DGI           Tax Bureau (Direction Generale des Imp6ts)
DGD           Customs Bureau (Direction Generale des Douanes)
ESAF          Economic Structural Adjustment Facility
FSAL          Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
HRDP          Human Resources Development Program
IMF           International Monetary Fund
LDP           Letter of Development Policv
MTF           Medium Term Economic Framework
OIC           Ivorian Shippers Office (Office Ivoirien des Chargeurs)
OMOCI         State-Owned Placement Office (Ojfice de la Main d'Oeuvre de C6te d'Ivoire)
PAGE          Projet d'Appui a la Gestion Economique
PASCO         Programme d 'ajustement structurel pour la comp6titivit6
PASFI         Programme d'ajustement pour le secteur financier
PASHR         Programme d'ajustement pour le secteur des ressources humaines
PFP           Policy Framework Paper
PSA           Private Sector Assessment
SECAL         Sector Adjustment Loan
TPS           Tax on Products and Services
VAT           Value Added Tax



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Summary .................................................................i
PART  I: Program   Implementation  Assessment ........................................................                                 1
I.     Introduction .................................................................I
11.    Program   Objectives .................................................................                                  I
III.   Achievement of Program   Objectives ...............................................................    4
IV. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Program                                                ..   7
V.    Program   Sustainability                .................................................................                9
VI.   Bank Performance .................................................................                                       10
VII. Borrower Performance ................................................................                                     10
VIII. Assessment of Outcome ................................................................    11
IX.   Future Operation  ................................................................    12
X.    Key Lessons Learned  ................................................................    12
PART  II:  Statistical Annexes .....................                           ........................................ . .    14
APPENDICES: A.    Mission's Aide-Memoire
B.          Observations of the Borrower on the ICR
C.          Borrower Contribution to the ICR
D.    Government Policy Matrix
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
COMPETITIVENESS AND REGULATORY
REFORM ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(LOAN 3429-IVC, CREDIT 2324-IVC, CREDIT 2324-1-IVC)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Competitiveness and
Regulatory Reform Adjustment Program to the Republic of C6te d'Ivoire (Loan 3429-IVC, Credit
2324-NC, and Credit 2324-1-IVC). The amount of Loan 3429-IVC was SDR 54.7 million (US$
75 million equivalent). Credit 2324-IVC was in the original amount of SDR 18.5 million (US$ 25
million equivalent). Both Loan 3429-IVC and Credit 2324-VC were approved on December 20,
1991, and became effective on March 10, 1992.
The first tranche was released upon effectiveness, and fully disbursed on the same date.
The balance of Loan 3429-NC was canceled at the Borrower's request following the January 12,
1994 devaluation of the CFA franc. The Borrower further requested that Credit 2324-1VC be
amended to provide additional financing in the amount of SDR 36.2 million (US$ 50 million
equivalent) which the Executive Directors approved on January 26, 1994 (IDA/R94-9). This
Credit, in its amended form (Cr. 2324-1-IVC) brought the resources available under it to a total of
SDR 54.7 million (US$ 75 million equivalent). Final and full disbursement took place on July 26,
1994. The amended Credit was closed on September 30, 1994. There was no cofinancing for this
project.
This ICR was prepared by Jamil Zouaoui from the Trade, Finance, and Investment
Division of the Western Central Africa Department (AF4TF). It was reviewed by Peter L. Watson
(Chief, AF4TF), Franz Kaps (Project Advisor, AF4DR) and Paul Bermingham (AF4IE). The
Association has received the Borrower's preliminary draft of its contribution to this ICR and will
circulate the final version upon receipt.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's completion mission to the Republic of
Cote d'Ivoire from February 28 to March 16, 1995. It is based on materials in the project file.
The Borrower assisted with the preparation of the ICR by contributing views included in the
mission's aide-m6moire, preparing its own evaluation of the project's initial preparation and
execution, and commenting on the draft ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
COMPETITIVENESS AND REGULATORY
REFORM ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(LOAN 3429-IVC, CREDIT 2324-IVC, CREDIT 2324-1-IVC)
Evaluation Summary
I.       Introduction. Since the early 1980s, C6te d'lvoire faced two major fiscal and balance
of payment crises, which adversely affected efficient allocation of resources and constrained
sectoral growth prospects. In the late 1980s, the Government responded by adopting stabilization
and adjustment programs, which initially relied solely on internal adjustment. In 1991, the
Government's Medium-Term Economic Framework (MTF) aimed to restore intemational
competitiveness and a return to a path of sustainable growth through structural reforms in the areas
of trade and finance and the pursuit of tight fiscal and monetary policies. The Competitiveness and
Regulatory Framework Adjustment Program (PASCO), along with two other SECALs (the
Financial Sector Adjustment Program (PASFI) and the Human Resources Adjustment Program
(PASHR)) supported the MTF. Following the 1994 devaluation of the CFA franc, the World
Bank Group stepped up its IDA-based lending program, and the outstanding balances of the three
SECALs (PASCO, PASFI, and PASHR) were canceled and replaced with IDA credits.
2.        Program Objectives. The PASCO intended to restore economic competitiveness
through actions in the following areas: (a) rationalization of the tax system; (b) improvement of
export incentives and trade/transport logistics; (c) promotion of the flexibility of the labor market;
(d) promotion of internal and external competition; (e) reform of the legal framework and the
functioning of the judicial system; and (f) simplification of procedures for the establishment of new
enterprises and the realization of new investments. Despite the project's complexity and wide
ranging scope, the objectives were clearly defined, and project conditionality remained simple.
3.        Credit Covenants and Special Arrangements. PASCO reforms were organized into: (a)
project conditionalities for effectiveness and second tranche disbursement; and (b) other activities
that were included in the Government's letter of sector policy and policy matrix. During the
Program's preparation, the Government agreed to undertake a number of competitiveness measures
in the 1992 Budget law (para. 5 of Part I).
4.        All conditions of effectiveness were complied with, and Ln. 3429-IVC and Cr. 2324-
IVC were declared effective on March 10, 1992 (para. 6). Conditions for second tranche
disbursement were complied with, except for 3(a) and 4 of Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement,
which were waived by agreement with the Borrower (paras. 7-11).
5.       Implementation Experience and Results (Paras. 12-24). The PASCO was ambitious
in scope and design, adding to the complexity of its implementation. Still, the program achieved
substantial success in reaching its objectives.
6.        Despite ongoing problems, VAT and internal taxation reforms were successful overall
(paras. 13-15). Perhaps the most significant VAT reforms achieved in the context of the PASCO
involved the VAT structure, with a reduction of the normal rate from 25 to 20 percent, and the
elimination of the highest rate. Furthermore, except for bank lending services, the Tax on Services
(TPS) was assimilated into the VAT. The number of VAT exonerations was reduced. In order to
shift some VAT burden to the informal sector, another tax, the ASDI, is now applied to all
products, but the informal sector still seems to avoid it. Real estate taxes were simplified and



ii
consolidated, and the average rate decreased from 27.5 to 15 percent of rental values. The tax
administration was unable to reform the Patente (incorporation tax).
7.        There has been some progress in reforming the investment promotion framework even
after the waiver of a related PASCO condition (para. 16). An investment code was adopted and
sent to Parliament by the Council of Ministers. Because an investment code was proposed,
Government policy is to refrain from granting new preferential terms and conditions traditionally
established under a convention for enterprise creation.
8.        Customs reforms were generally successful despite persisting concerns (paras. 17-18).
Achievements included the simplification from 59 rates of customs and fiscal duties to a dual
structure with one single customs 5 percent tariff, and a simplified fiscal duty structure with a
maximum of six rates in addition to VAT and Statistical taxes, increasing transparency and ease of
utilization. This rationalized tariff structure has helped eliminate the practice of offering
preferential benefits to importers. Several key measures were undertaken to speed up the customs
processing and admission of merchandises arriving into C6te d'lvoire, but users still cannot clear
goods within 48 hours. The Borrower emphasized the need to improve the: (a) administrative
procedures; and (b) use and configuration of SYDAM, the customs clearance software.
9.        Progress was mixed for export promotion (para. 19). The PASCO helped eliminate the
requirement for most export licenses in 1992. Authorizations are still required to export wood,
coffee, cocoa, and minerals. Although the export subsidy was eliminated following the 1994 CFA
franc devaluation, a stock of arrears remains. The "drawback" system does not function for lack of
specific implementation directives. The Borrower's financial difficulties in making export subsidy
reimbursements discouraged it from instituting the reimbursement of prepaid duties. Without an
effective drawback system, the customs suspension regime under the temporary admission system
is crucial. Exporters seeking to take advantage of benefits may use only bank guarantees if their
private customs commissioner (transitaire) has exhausted its credit with the Customs
administration. Little was done on the issue of liberalizing transport procedures in the PASCO.
10.       Much progress was realized in the area of labor reforms despite considerable delays
in passing and promulgating a labor code, and an unusual situation involving the AGEPE, a newly
created Government placement agency (para. 20). Private sector operators reported significant
improvements to the labor environment resulting from the new labor code. As agreed with the
Borrower, the measures for the elimination of specific rigidities of the labor market were
implemented. Employer contributions were: (a) eliminated for Ivorian employees, and (b) reduced
for expatriate workers. A Government employment agency's monopoly over hiring and firing (the
OMOCI's) was eliminated. There are presently several private recruitment agencies operating in
Cote d'lvoire. However, a new Government placement agency (AGEPE) was created which has
some regulatory powers over the private sector agencies competing with it. The AGEPE's inherent
conflict of interest creates a clear potential for unfair competition.
11.        Overall results pertaining to the promotion of domestic and external competition were
positive (paras. 21-22), despite the need for further improvements. A new competition law was
passed. Its application decree has liberalized prices for all products, except 22 mentioned on a
negative list. A Competition Commission was created and functions despite: (a) an apparent lack
of resources and autonomy; and (b) the absence of a formal mechanism enabling enterprises to
petition the Commission to investigate anti-competitive acts. Another problem lies in that the
Ministry of Commerce has a Competition Department whose prerogatives and activities could
overlap with those of the Commission. Non-Tariff barriers were reduced under the PASCO. The
customs administration welcomed additional training on SYDAM, the computerized customs
declaration software's advanced capabilities, and the possibility to expand SYDAM's features.



111
12.       Progress was mixed in the area of legal reforms (para. 23). The PASCO contained
several legal reforms even though none was included in the conditionality. These reforms were
supervised under other Bank operations (PASFI and PAGE).
13.       The Borrower made good progress in the investment promotion area (para. 24). The
One-Stop Window for enterprise creation and formalities facilitation functions. A new investment
code was adopted by the Council of Ministers, but it gives more privileges to big companies than to
small ones, which contradicts the Government's proclaimed policy of SME promotion. The
borrower did not go far enough in moving investment code incentives into the general tax code and
the customs code. There is insufficient private sector representation in the newly created National
Commission for Investment Promotion.
14.        Key Implementation Factors. (Paras. 25-40). The PASCO involved chariging the
attitudes of both the private sector and Government, an inevitably slow process. Although the
project helped to restore trust on both sides, it could not -- and should not be expected to -- erase
years of mutual lack of understanding. Several PASCO reforms exceeded the Government's
implementation capacity. Lack of coordination and follow up between the Borrower and the
Association delayed the implementation of important reforms like those pertaining to the legal
environment. Another implementation factor involved the lack of coordination between
Government agencies as well as the failure to establish formal information links between key
agencies. A crucial factor inhibiting the Government's ability to implement reforms related to the
reluctance of some segments of the private sector to allow market competition. Still, the Borrower
and a large portion of the private sector understood the urgency of implementing reforms to the
Ivorian business environment in order to improve competitiveness while awaiting a CFA franc
devaluation. This enabled the Bank's staff and the Borrower to work effectively together.
15.       The project's supervision was complicated because it contained reforms whose
implementation extended beyond the life of the project (e.g., VAT). The Borrower was
occasionally unable to sequence reforms as originally planned because prerequisites had not been
implemented. An apparent lack of political will affected the implementation of some labor reforms.
Interministerial competition and jurisdictional battling delayed the creation of the One-Stop
Window (CEPICI) until the Prime Minister placed it under his direct control. The Project
benefited from strong high level political backing overall, which manifested itself when the
Borrower courageously undertook to implement difficult and unpopular reforms. A hallmark of
the PASCO, the specially formed multi-disciplinary Competitiveness Committee provided a forum
for learning about C6te d'lvoire's needs and devise a competitiveness strategy. Bank staff advised
and assisted the Committee, ensuring that the process produced useful recommendations for Cote
d'lvoire. Finally, the combination of persons involved in the PASCO eased its preparation and
implementation and resulted in the creation of a tight group of individuals familiar with C6te
d'lvoire's competitiveness issues.
16.       Bank Performance. (Para. 45). The Association's performance was highly
satisfactory throughout the PASCO. The Bank acted primarily as a catalyst, prompting the
Borrower to explore different options, and offering assistance when needed. During supervision,
certain categories of reform suffered due to isolated instances of poor coordination and follow up.
17.        Borrower Performance. (Paras. 46-48). The Borrower's performance was
satisfactory overall, despite periods of lag. During the program's preparation, Borrower
performance was highly satisfactory. During implementation, the Borrower's performance record
was mixed. On the positive side, the Borrower implemented the majority of the reforms specified
in the PASCO policy matrix, and courageously effected important but unpopular reforms. On the
negative side, there were unexplained delays and confused priorities. The Borrower also neglected
for approximately one year to commission certain audits.



iv
18.        Assessment of Outcome. (Paras. 49-52). The outcome of the PASCO is rated as
satisfactory. Its implementation record is positive: the project achieved its central objectives, and
most reforms initially planned were in fact implemented. Although macroeconomic performance
indicators were neither identified early into the project's life and linked to the PASCO's reforms,
nor monitored throughout implementation, recent overall economic trends were encouraging. At
the sectoral level, the private sector felt that the business environment had clearly improved. It
now asks primarily for more fine-tuning of existing reforms.
19.        Summary of Findings, Future Operation, and Key Lessons Learned. Several
private sector operators and Government officials indicated that PASCO reforms resulted directly
in the elimination of several important business environment constraints. A complaint still echoed
by several operators involved clearing Government arrears to the private sector. Operators also
felt that the legal environment continued to need improvements beyond the PASCO's achievements.
Overall, the currently positive outlook is improved by the budding supply response observed in
CMte d'Ivoire, and the emerging collaboration resulting from Government-private sector
interactions. Perhaps, a crucial achievement of the PASCO is the message filtering down from
higher to lower levels of Government that the private sector is CMte d'Ivoire's engine of economic
growth and should be treated with respect.
20.        Sustainability. (Paras. 41-44). The project's achievements are likely to be
maintained. Four factors will help. Borrower commitment remains high, as evidenced by its
interest in the preparation of a follow-up private sector development operation. Upcoming
operations are likely to motivate the Borrower to institutionalize the PASCO's achievements.
Recent improvements to the policy environment resulting from the reforms already implemented
will generate momentum for the preservation of the PASCO's achievements. Finally, the capacity
buildup that has resulted from the PASCO helped establish a network of Ivorian technicians who
are proud of their contribution to the PASCO's reforms and who will likely work to preserve its
legacy.
21.        Future Operations. (Para. 53). To follow up on the PASCO, a Private Sector
development project is currently under appraisal. The new operation is expected to include fiscal
and tax administration reforms, port and customs procedures streamlining, investment procedures
simplification, export promotion, increased internal competition, judicial reforms, and payment of
domestic arrears.
22.        Lessons Learned. (Paras. 54-62). First, the PASCO demonstrated that extensive
collaboration between Bank staff, Borrower, and private sector helps define project components
through consensus, and increases Borrower internalization. Second, the Bank should intensify its
supervision to monitor the implementation of unpopular reforms. Third, the PASCO has
illustrated the virtues of Bank Group flexibility in specific circumstances. Fourth, reforms require
more than political will alone: they need the Borrower's follow-up and adequate resource
allocation. Fifth, private sector development is an inevitably slow process that requires
considerable time before reforms can be expected to generate a supply response. Sixth, care
should be taken during the project design phase to ensure that the Borrower's implementation
capacity is not exceeded. Seventh, more effort should be invested in educating the Borrowers
about the auditing requirements that accompany Bank financing. Eighth, measurable performance
indicators should be identified early into the project cycle for this type of adjustment operation, and
an effort should be made to establish a logical link between them and the project's performance.
Finally, concise conditionality, simplicity of design, and a strong central theme are not necessarily
incompatible with a complex project. This in turn can help monitor project implementation.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
COMPETITIVENESS AND REGULATORY
REFORM ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(LOAN 3429-IVC. CREDIT 2324-IVC, CREDIT 2324-1-IVC)
PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    Since the early 1980s, C6te d'lvoire faced two major fiscal and balance of payment crises
resulting from a combination of the decline in coffee and cocoa prices, inadequate macroeconomic
policies and fundamental distortions in trade, finance, public sector, and pricing policies, which
adversely affected efficient allocation of resources and constrained sectoral growth prospects. In
the late 1980s, the Government responded by adopting a stabilization and Adjustment Program,
which initially relied solely on internal adjustment. The Government's Medium-Term Economic
Framework (MTF), adopted in 1991, aimed to restore international competitiveness and a return to
a path of sustainable growth through structural reforms in the areas of trade and finance and the
pursuit of tight fiscal and monetary policies.
2.    Support from the World Bank Group. The MTF was supported by three SECALs: (a)
the Competitiveness and Regulatory Framework Adjustment Program (PASCO); (b) the Financial
Sector Adjustment Program (PASFI); and (c) the Human Resources Adjustment Program
(PASHR), and a stand-by arrangement with the IMF. Following the 1994 devaluation of the CFA
franc, the World Bank offered additional support to the Government's previously engaged fiscal,
monetary, and structural adjustment policies, in order to seize the opportunity to strengthen the
international competitiveness of the Ivorian economy and help it return to a path of sustainable
growth. The Bank's additional support came on-line in February 1994, when the outstanding
balances of three Sectoral Adjustment Loans supporting the PASCO, PASFI, and PASHR were
canceled and replaced with IDA credits. Thus, Bank Loan No. 3429-IVC and IDA Credits No.
2324-IVC, which initially supported the PASCO, were eventually merged into Credit No. 2324-1-
IVC. In addition, the Board approved a supplemental credit to the human resources development
program under its Fifth Dimension policy in February 1994. These were to be followed by a
series of fast disbursing credits to further assist C6te d'Ivoire in its adjustment efforts. Moreover,
the project investment pipeline was reactivated. With the disbursement of the PASCO's second
tranche, the last of the Republic of C6te d'Ivoire's three sector adjustment operations -- PASCO,
PASFI, and PASHR -- was completed. Through these three operations, IDA disbursed the
equivalent of US$ 335 million of critically needed funds in exceptional financing within the six
months period following the CFA franc devaluation.
II.    PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
3.    Original Objectives. The Program intended to restore the competitiveness of the economy
through a variety of actions in the following areas: (a) rationalization of the tax system; (b)
improvement of export incentives and trade/transport logistics; (c) promoting the flexibility of the
labor market; (d) promotion of intemal and extemal competition; (e) reform of the legal framework
and improvement in the functioning of the judicial system; and (f) simplification of procedures for
the establishment of new enterprises and the realization of new investments.



2
4.     Although ambitious, the PASCO's objectives were clearly defined and essential to restore
RCI's competitiveness. The Program was identified in conjunction with the Government's ad-hoc
Competitiveness Committee, which incorporated representatives from the Private Sector as well as
from the principal economic Ministries. Bank staff and the Committee members worked closely to
develop these objectives.
5.     Credit Covenants and Special Arrangements. The PASCO's reforms were organized
into (a) project conditionalities for effectiveness and second tranche disbursement, and (b) other
activities which were simply included in the Government's policy matrix. During the course of the
Program's preparation, the Government undertook a number of competitiveness measures. By
agreement with the Bank, some of these measures were included in C6te d'Ivoire's 1992 Budget
law, namely: (a) the establishment of an accelerated rebate system for restituting Value-Added Tax
(VAT) credits to exporters; (b) an increase to 60 percent of the deductible share of the VAT paid
on eligible petroleum products; (c) transformation of the tax on products and services (TPS) into a
VAT, except for banking services; (d) improvement of tax collection from the informal sector by
extending presumptive taxation to imports, except for goods imported under the temporary
admission system; (e) elimination of export licenses, export duties and taxes, except to protect the
environment, safeguard the nation's cultural heritage, or as a substitute for inadequate taxation of
producers' income; (f) adjustment of export subsidy rates to make payments compatible with the
budgetary inscription for 1992; and (g) reduction of employers' contributions from 4 to 2.5 percent
of wages and salaries paid to Ivorian employees.
6.     Conditions of effectiveness specified that: (a) a draft law on Competition be approved by
the Council of Ministers and submitted to the National Assembly; (b) all necessary legislative and
administrative measures have been adopted and in effect, and necessary arrangements made (i) for
the elimination of the monopoly of the Public Employment Agency (OMOCI) regarding hiring, (ii)
the elimination of the obligation to obtain prior administrative authorization for workers' overtime,
(iii) the elimination of the obligation to have occasional or daily workers in permanent status after
90 days of continuous or intermittent employment, and (iv) the elimination of the obligation to
obtain the authorization from the Ministry of Labor prior to labor force reductions motivated by
economic reasons. Finally, an indicative list of products for which quantitative restrictions and
non-tariff barriers would be eliminated at second tranche had to be submitted. All conditions of
effectiveness were complied with, and Ln. 3429-IVC and Cr. 2324-IVC were both declared
effective on March 10, 1992.
7.     Conditions for the disbursement of the second tranche, as set forth in Schedule 4 of the
Loan Agreement, depended upon satisfactory progress in the implementation of C6te d'lvoire's
Medium Term Framework undertakings, as well as in the execution of the competitiveness and
regulatory reform program specified in the Government's Letter of Development Policy, including
its policy matrix.
8.     Specifically, second tranche disbursement was subject to the following conditions: (a)
revision of the export subsidy system taking into account the economy's level of competitiveness at
the time; (b) (i) the elimination of reference prices of a protectionist nature; (ii) the elimination of
import intent notices and authorizations except on grounds of health and public order; (iii) adoption
of a decree substantially reducing quantitative restrictions and import licenses; (iv) adoption of a
calendar for the removal, over a three year period, of quantitative restrictions and licenses on
imports not included in the decree cited above, except for those justified for reasons of health and
public order, as well as those included on a short negative list agreed with the Bank; (c) adoption of
an action plan with a view to: (i) extending the VAT to all exportable agricultural, forestry, and
fish products as well as transport of merchandise; and (ii) reducing the VAT rates to three at the



3
most; (d) adoption of an action plan for rationalizing investment incentives, including
corresponding draft legislation; (e) preparation of a new customs tariff, including agreement on its
date of application where the new tariff was to take into account the level of competitiveness of the
economy and enterprises, as well as budgetary constraints, and contain: (i) two duties (the customs
and the fiscal duties), in addition to service fees and internal taxes; and (ii) six rates of the fiscal
duty at most; and (f) adoption of an action plan to improve the functioning of the labor market by
reforming the labor code.
9.     Waiver of two conditions for second tranche release. All conditions for second tranche
disbursement were complied with except for conditions 3(a) and 4, both of which were waived by
agreement with the Borrower, and after consultation with the Executive Directors.
10.    Condition 3 (a) of the Credit Agreement required that "lain action plan has been adopted
for: extension of the Value-Added Tax (VAT) to all export products in the agriculture, forestry and
fisheries sectors and transport of goods." As previously relayed to the Executive Directors in a
memorandum seeking their approval of the waiver of this condition, the Government found it
necessary to proceed in stages due to administrative, budgetary, and environmental constraints, and
the absence of appropriate legislative framework in specific sectors (e.g., forestry taxation law).
Hence the Government extended, in a first phase, VAT coverage to four major categories of
agricultural exports (bananas, pineapples, flowers, and plants), leaving other products in the
agricultural, forestry, fisheries, and transportation of goods sectors out of the scope of the VAT,
while planning to expand the application of the tax to them in a later phase. The Government
agreed that the global application of the VAT remained an important objective of the PASCO,
which would be addressed and monitored under following the two operations being prepared: (a)
the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation; and (b) the Transport Sector Adjustment Operation
for the extension of the VAT to this sector.
11.    Condition 4 required that "a plan for the rationalization of investment incentives, including
a first set of draft implementation measures, has been adopted." Following a series of studies that
revealed serious distortions in enterprise taxation and investment incentives, the Association came
to the conclusion that more sweeping reforms were needed than initially envisioned by the
Government. It was felt that reforms would be ineffective if the Government had not put into place
a reformed tax code that would: (a) prescribe lower, more moderate levels of corporate taxation;
and (b) be coordinated with the overall investment incentives framework. This realization possibly
obviated the need for an investment code, and prompted the Association to look closer at attendant
distortions and opportunities for rent-seeking that could originate from it. Thus, it became
necessary to reevaluate the scope and meaning of this condition, and the Government committed
itself within the context of the PFP and of the Private Sector Assessment (PSA) exercise, to adopt
a new investment code by December 1994. This code was expected to be simple, automatic,
transparent, and neutral, and to be synchronized with anticipated changes to existing tax
legislation. The Association planned to continue to press for agreement on this issue under the
proposed Private Sector Development Program, currently under appraisal. Since this approach
was expected to lead to substantially better results than originally envisaged, a waiver of this
condition was granted. However, due to the urgency of passing a new investment code in order to
capture new opportunities for the economy after the devaluation, and after extensive consultation
with the Private Sector Development mission in November 1994, a new investment code was
adopted by the Council of Ministers, and it was submitted to the National Assembly in May 1995.
As of this writing, the Borrower has not yet confirmed that this code has been voted into law.



4
III.   ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
12.    The adjustment program achieved substantial success in reaching its objectives at the
macroeconomic level, improving both Ivorian competitiveness and the regulatory framework as
anticipated under the program. As reported by several members of the private sector and
Government officials, PASCO reforms were directly responsible for the elimination of severe
business environment constraints. The Borrower did act decisively to restore competitiveness
through a variety of planned sectoral measures including: (a) rationalization of the domestic tax
structure; (b) improved revenue collections by the Customs Administration through the
establishment of systematic pre-shipment inspection of goods; (c) the removal of non-tariff barriers
on competing imports; (d) the rationalization of import duties; (e) the removal of export subsidies;
(f) the liberalization of maritime transport for Cote d'lvoire's principal agricultural exports
(bananas, pineapples, etc.); (g) the implementation of more liberal temporary admission regimes
for inputs for all exporters; (h) the complete re-engineering and adoption of a vastly improved
labor code; and (i) the CFA franc parity adjustment.
13.    VAT and Internal Taxation Reforms. Perhaps the most significant VAT reforms
achieved in the context of the PASCO were the simplification of the VAT structure, with a
reduction of the normal VAT rate from 25 to 20 percent, and the elimination of the highest VAT
rate. Furthermore, the Tax on Services ("TPS") was assimilated into the VAT, except for major
bank services like lending. Furthermore, the number of VAT exonerations was actually reduced.
14.   The Borrower instituted by decree a system of reimbursement of VAT arrears accumulated
until September 30, 1991, but has been unable to proceed with their effective payment due to the
Treasury's difficulties. Exporters receive Government promissory notes against which they can
receive tax credit for the payment of future VAT and customs duties that they will owe. However,
the restrictions imposed on the use of notes renders them all but useless to exporters that usually
import only under temporary regimes. The accelerated reimbursement of current VAT credits to
exporters within 3 months has also been instituted, but creditors reported mixed experiences with
actual repayments. The VAT was extended to nearly all products, despite the fact that a small
negative list of 21 products continues to exist. The Government explained that it had difficulty
extending the VAT to what it considered to be products of first necessity. On a more positive note,
the VAT deductibility was extended by steps to eligible petroleum products as anticipated in the
PASCO. In 1995 the deductibility was at the 90 percent mark, and is expected to be 100 percent
in 1996. With respect to the extension of VAT deductibility to commercial transport vehicles, the
law was passed, but its application is delayed pending publication. The exceptions to the buffer
rule which limits VAT reimbursements to VAT amounts charged to customers were extended to:
(a) industrial investments; (b) exports of raw or slightly transformed products; (c) products
benefiting from the lower VAT rates like flour, palm and cotton oil, sugar; and (d) business
closures.
15.    Despite ongoing difficulties, other reforms of the internal taxation system were successful
overall. The ASDI (advance payment on various taxes) is currently applied to all products
including imports in order to shift some VAT burden to the informal sector. However, formal
sector operators reported that they are effectively unable to pass the ASDI to the informal sector
which may access procurement channels that do not charge the ASDI. Real estate taxes were
simplified and consolidated, with the average rate moved from 27.5 to 15 percent of rental values.
Although the Tax Administration expressed interest in improving the "Patente" system, this tax
was not improved as anticipated in the PASCO matrix because of its complexity and of the
supposed budget impact.



5
16.    Rationalization of Investment Incentives. There has been some progress on these
reforms despite waiver of the related conditionality. The investment code reform formed the crux
of Condition 4 for the PASCO's second tranche release. Following its waiver, a new investment
code was adopted by the Council of Ministers and was submitted to the National Assembly. This
rendered new conventions unnecessary, and the Government's current official policy is to refrain
from granting terms that would differ from those to be offered in the code. The proposed
investment code satisfies the criteria of simplicity, accountability and transparency, but is not
entirely neutral in that it gives bigger privileges to big companies than to small ones, which runs
contrary to the Government's proclaimed policy of SME promotion. Although some incentives
were taken out of the investment code and were integrated into the general tax code and the
customs tariff, it would have been desirable to go further in this direction.
17.    Customs Tariff Reform. Customs reforms were generally successful despite a few
disappointing results. At the time of the PASCO's inception, Cte D'Ivoire had over 59 customs
and fiscal duties. The PASCO prompted the simplification to a dual structure with one single
customs tariff of 5 percent, and a simplified fiscal duty structure with a maximum of six rates.
This has increased transparency and ease of utilization of the customs administration. As a result
of this rationalized tariff structure, preferential benefits are normally no longer availed to
importers.
18.    A number of other important measures were undertaken in order to speed up the customs
processing and admission of merchandises arriving into Cote d'lvoire. Notices of intent to import
are no longer required, but the Association was informed that the Borrower implemented an
information gathering system called a "Fiche de Renseignement Individuelle" that asks for exactly
the same information. Private operators did however indicate that this formality can now be
accomplished in approximately one half day, as opposed to the longer delays that the notices of
intent to import required. The Borrower established a single customs office at the Abidjan seaport
to handle both imports and exports. Finally, several private customs commissioners and operators
were authorized to use the new system of accelerated customs declarations. The high demand for
accelerated customs procedures has increased the risk of fraud, explained the administration
without proposing a solution to reduce it. Despite significant strides in shortening customs
clearance delays, the average customs services user cannot obtain authorizations to take delivery
within 48 hours despite the Borrower's avowed objective of releasing them within 48 hours of
receiving acceptable customs declarations.
19.    Export Promotion. Progress was mixed for this component. A major achievement linked
to the PASCO is the elimination of all export licenses in 1992. Authorizations are still required for
certain products (wood, coffee, cocoa, minerals). Although the export subsidy was eliminated in
1994, shortly after the devaluation, a stock of the arrears remains accumulated that was not
liquidated satisfactorily. Although articles 143 and 144 of the customs code establish its existence,
the "drawback" system does not function because its modalities of application have not been
defined. Another difficulty stood in the way of the implementation of the "drawback" system: the
Borrower's financial difficulties make it difficult to guaranty repayment of prepaid duties to
exporters. In the absence of an effective drawback system, the customs suspension under the
temporary admission system is crucial, and it has been ameliorated in all but one of the aspects
envisioned under the PASCO (reduction of the guarantees' amount from 100 to 50 percent of the
imported value, diversification of the guarantees' type to include private customs commissioners'
bond, and creation of an attribution committee responsible for the granting of benefits and the strict
application of eligibility criteria). However, a major difficulty remains because exporters seeking
to take advantage of benefits may use only bank guarantees if their private customs commissioner



6
(transitaire) has no credits left with the Customs administration. Because export promotion can
work only if effective international transport procedures exist, the Borrower has decided to
examine this question recently in the context of Bank operations under preparation. On the issue of
transport, little was done in the PASCO even though the Government cited in its policy matrix the
"improvement of external trade and transport procedures" as an action that it wanted to implement.
There presently exist no formal channels for exchanging information between the Customs
administration, the Treasury, the Tax administration, the Central Bank, and other government
agencies involved in financial issues. Finally, a study revealed that an import insurance is
currently being charged twice to users. Although the percentages involved are small compared to
the value of imports, this constraint should be eliminated.
20.    Labor Market. In the area of labor reforms, private sector operators reported some
significant ameliorations. The PASCO resulted in a new labor code being adopted and passed.
Employer contributions were eliminated for Ivorian employees, and they were reduced from 14 to
10 percent for expatriate workers. The measures for the elimination of specific rigidities of the
labor market required that a Government employment agency's (OMOCI) monopoly over hiring
and firing be eliminated. This result was achieved, and there are presently several private
recruitment agencies operating mostly in Abidjan. A new Government placement agency
(AGEPE), which has been created following the OMOCI's dismantlement presents a new issue.
The AGEPE has a conflict of interest resulting from its regulatory powers over private sector
agencies that it competes with. The AGEPE's position also raises issues of unfair competition: as
a Government entity, it derives benefits that other private placement firms do not enjoy.
Furthermore, its research and regulatory arm requires private placement firms to supply
commercially valuable placement data to it but cannot guarantee that the information it obtains will
be kept away from the AGEPE's placement structure. The upcoming Private Sector Development
operation is expected to address this problem.
21.    Promotion of Domestic and External Competition. Since the PASCO's inception a
competition law was passed. Its application decree has liberalized prices for all products except
for 22 listed on a negative list. A Competition Commission was created and is operational despite
its apparent lack of resources and autonomy. The Commission's managers pointed out that a
constraint to the functioning of the Commission results from the fact that private sector enterprises
are unable to officially request the Commission to investigate and prosecute perpetrators of acts in
restraint of competition. Another problem stems from the fact that a Competition Department
exists in the Ministry of Commerce. The respective prerogatives and activities of the Commission
and the Department include monitoring and prosecuting anti-competitive practices. It would be
useful to clearly define the roles and interactions between these two organizations.
22.   The reference value system (valeurs mercuriales) was abolished in fulfillment of PASCO
conditionality. However, the expected improvements to the Bureau de la Valeur have not taken
place. To fulfill a condition of effectiveness, in 1992, non-Tariff barriers were reduced following
the completion of extensive studies-mostly in 1993 and 1994. Finally, SYDAM, the computerized
customs declaration software has been functioning for several years, but the customs
administration would welcome additional training to help take advantage of the software's
advanced capabilities. The customs administration indicated that a useful feature that is not
presently included in SYDAM would be a timer that would inform customs administration
management every time that a complete customs declaration has lingered in the system longer than
some specified time. This timer would help promote timely processing of customs declarations.
23.    Legal Reforms. Progress was mixed in this area. The PASCO contained several legal
reforms even though none was included in the conditionality. These legal reforms were supervised



7
under other Bank operations (PASFI and PAGE). Commercial courts were not established. Out-
of-court procedures for arbitration were recently clarified. An arbitration law was adopted, but
lacks application decrees. Old legal procedures for debt recovery lawsuits remain unchanged
despite the PASCO's goal to improve them. However, court registration fees for this type of
lawsuits were reduced in the 1992 finance law. A code of commerce was prepared but not voted
into law by the National Assembly. Neither the company law nor the other business codes were
revised as anticipated. As mandated in the Program, and since 1992, the Accounting profession
was regulated by law, but the status of its application decree is unclear. Results were explained
partially by the need for more consistent follow up and coordination between the Borrower and the
Association, and by the fact that the ongoing parallel regional harmonization efforts under the
umbrella of the African Organisation for the Harmonization of Business Laws (OHADA) lessened
the urgency of implementing the PASCO's legal reforms.
24.   Investment Promotion. Despite private sector representation difficulties, the Borrower
achieved good progress in this area. A One-Stop Window was opened and helped with the creation
of over ten enterprises at the time of writing of this report. It is fulfilling satisfactorily its function
of facilitating the creation of new enterprises, as well as that of facilitating business transactions
and arrangements domestically and internationally, and availing information complementary to that
obtained from other institutions like the Chamber of Commerce. The new investment code adopted
by the Council of Ministers satisfies the criteria of simplicity (it offers only two regimes),
accountability and transparency, but gives more privileges to big companies than to small ones,
which runs contrary to the Government's proclaimed policy of SME promotion. Although some
incentives were taken out of the investment code and integrated into the general tax code and the
customs tariff, it would have been desirable to go farther in this direction. The National
Commission for Investment Promotion was created but the private sector occupies only 7 out of 22
seats, which may be insufficient. The private sector presence in this commission should be
increased.
IVT.  IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROGRAM
25.    This operation's implementation record is positive, and most reforms initially planned were
in fact implemented during the life of the project. Those that were not will be implemented and
monitored in the context of upcoming operations. The major factors affecting the conduct of this
operation are outlined below.
26.    Factors beyond Government control. The PASCO involved changing the attitudes of
both the private sector and Government, and this process takes time. While the Borrower had it
within its powers to influence -- if it could not affirmatively change -- the attitudes of civil servants
vis-a-vis the private sector, it could not improve the private sector's opinion of the Borrower
overnight, nor could it erase the deeply felt mistrust on both sides. Although the project helped to
restore trust on both sides, it could not -- and should not be expected to -- erase the years of mutual
lack of understanding preceding it.
27.    The Government's implementation capacity was exceeded in several aspects of the PASCO
program of reforms. For example, the extension of the Value Added Tax (VAT) to all agricultural
and fishing products and to the transport sector was delayed. The Government had found it
necessary to proceed in steps for two reasons: (a) it was felt that extending the VAT to these
sectors would exceed the Government's implementation capacity; and (b) the application of this
measure was expected to result in a significant loss of revenue. Another example relates to the



8
Government-operated research and consulting agency, the DCGTx, which did not have the money
to contract work out, and whose in-house capabilities were sometimes overwhelmed by the number
and diversity of studies expected in the PASCO.
28.    VAT reforms were also delayed because of their supposed revenue impact. This
contributed to the Government's decision to refrain from initiating in one step those reforms
pertaining to the extension of the Value-Added Tax to export products in the fisheries, agriculture,
forestry and transport sectors.
29.    Concerning the export subsidies arrears, the Government indicated that public finance
difficulties caused payment delays. For subsidies technically owed but the amount of which was
not yet calculated, the complexity of the calculations involved also resulted in delays.
30.    Lack of coordination and follow up between the Borrower and the Association has delayed
the implementation of a few important reforms.
31.    A crucial factor inhibiting the Government's ability to implement reforms related to the
reluctance of some segments of the private sector to allow market competition to rule. An example
of such private sector reliance on Government protection for economic survival, as well as the
Government's paternalistic attitude towards protected sectors, involved a local manufacturer of
small agricultural implements. This producer, instead of looking to change his procurement
sources for blade iron after the CFA devaluation, worked out a special arrangement with the
Ivorian customs administration. He managed to obtain an authorization to import blade-grade iron
under a temporary admission regime thus avoiding otherwise applicable import duties, but failed to
re-export the blade iron as a finished product, instead distributing the finished implements locally.
32.    Another factor that affected Program implementation was the lack of coordination between
the different Government agencies involved in various reforms. Despite a specific project
recommendation formal links were not established to ease the exchange of information between the
Direction des Douanes (Customs Administration), the Direction Generale des Imp6ts (Tax
Administration), the Treasury, the Central Bank, and other Government agencies with a financial
mandate.
33.    The project contained reforms that the Borrower was unable to implement during the life
of the project, and which need to be monitored under upcoming projects. This increased the
difficulty in supervising the implementation of Value-Added Tax (VAT) reforms. The government
undertook to implement these reforms in stages after committing to their implementation and
successfully completing other important related reforms stipulated in the Credit Agreement.
34.    The Borrower was occasionally unable to sequence reforms as originally planned because
certain preliminary requirements were not implemented. This caused delays that were not always
attributable to Borrower performance. Several studies conducted during the program's
implementation revealed that planned incentive framework reforms would remain ineffective if
certain preliminary tax reforms were not put into place first. It was then realized that a new tax
code would possibly obviate the need for an investment code, and prompted the Association to look
closer at attendant distortions and opportunities for rent seeking that could result from the current
tax and investment structure. The issue was resolved with the Government when its overall
commitment was obtained, in the context of the PFP, that a new investment code would be adopted
by December 1994.
35.    Factors within Government control. Some reforms proved difficult to implement due to
an apparent lack of political will. In the context of the Labor reforms, the monopoly of the state-
owned placement office (OMOCI) was to be eliminated with respect to its job-placement function.



9
This objective was attained when the OMOCI was officially closed. However, in its stead, another
agency called the AGEPE (Agency for Research and Promotion of Labor) was created shortly
thereafter with the avowed objective of competing in the newly liberalized private placement area.
This competition could prove to be unfair since the AGEPE's research arm has regulatory
oversight over private placement agencies, and has been reportedly conditioning the renewal of
yearly business licenses on the provision of proprietary job-placement data, without guaranteeing
that this data will not be used by the AGEPE's placement structure.
36.    Competition amongst various ministries has also hindered the implementation of key
reforms. For example the creation of the CEPICI (One-Stop Window) was delayed while several
ministers considered under whose jurisdiction this office properly belonged. The issue was
resolved when the Prime Minister, eager to open the CEPICI, placed it under his direct supervision.
37.    On the positive side, the Project benefited at times from strong high level political backing.
The coordinating agency (Cellule de Suivi) responsible for following up on all implementation
issues from the Borrower's standpoint was attached directly to the office of the Prime Minister.
This strong backing manifested itself throughout the life of the PASCO, and the highest level of
Government was called on to take courageous decisions on the side of implementing difficult and
sometimes unpopular reforms that affected powerful vested interests.
38.    The Government and the private sector representatives understood the urgency of
implementing business environment reforms in order to improve competitiveness in the absence of
a CFA franc devaluation. They both realized that the CFA franc devaluation was not a measure
that could be taken unilaterally by CMte d'Ivoire. Consequently, they focused their energy on
measures that could be implemented within C6te d'Ivoire's borders.
39.    The private sector representatives and the Government officials interviewed described
enthusiastically the PASCO's clear central theme and vision. This central theme and vision
enabled the Bank's staff and the Borrower to work closely towards common, well internalized, and
precisely defined goals. A hallmark of the PASCO was the considerable work that was done by
both the Borrower and the Association's staff to educate each other about the particularities of
CMe d'Ivoire, and about the benefits or drawbacks of selecting one approach over another. The
process that was retained for developing the PASCO strategy worked well: a multi-disciplinary
commission called the Competitiveness Committee was created with members at the highest level
of Government, and from the principal economic Ministries, Ivorian technicians, representatives of
the private sector. Bank staff assisted the process, offering advice, and ensuring that the process
came to closure with recommendations that could be turned into meaningful conditionalities likely
to benefit Cote d'lvoire.
40.    Finally the combination of personalities played favorably for the PASCO's preparation and
implementation. The interactions amongst the various Ivorian technicians and officials involved in
the PASCO were such that a tight group of individuals familiar with the country's competitiveness
issues was formed. This group has acquired valuable experience in economic matters. Its
members acquired valuable first-hand experience into the intricacies of Cote d'Ivoire's economy,
and pioneered the application of effective techniques that they developed with the assistance of the
Association.
V.    PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY
41.    The PASCO is likely to sustain its achievements. Borrower commitment remains high to
the reforms engaged under this Program, as evidenced by its continuing interest in the preparation



10
of a follow-up private sector development operation involving reforms to consolidate and extend
the PASCO. Furthermore, the Association's dialogue with the Borrower, in the context of the
upcoming private sector operation, the PFP, and the Agricultural sector operation, is likely to
provide strong incentives to institutionalize the PASCO's achievements.
42.   The integrated stream of actions undertaken under the PASCO and the Private Sector
Assessment (PSA) report conducted in Cte d'lvoire led to the organization on March 6 and 7,
1995 of a preparation seminar for the upcoming private sector development project. Seven local
workgroups loosely organized around themes common to the PSA and the PASCO worked to
develop the Government's private sector promotion policy to be supported by the upcoming
project. These workgroups contained members of the government, private sector operators and the
professions, ensuring that a fruitful dialogue between the various categories of stakeholders in
private sector and competitiveness enhancing reforms is engaged.
43.   The policy environment has clearly improved as a result of the reforms already
implemented, which is likely to generate momentum not only for the preservation of the PASCO's
achievements, but also to give the Borrower greater comfort in its ability to implement positive
economic reforms. This is likely to have beneficial windfalls in the context of the preparation and
appraisal of the upcoming Private Sector development operation.
44.   Finally, the capacity building that has resulted from the PASCO is an important benefit,
which has a direct impact over the sustainability of this operation's achievements. A network of
Ivorian technical specialists who are proud of their contribution to the PASCO's reforms has
emerged, and is expected to work towards preserving the achievements of this operation.
VI. BANK PERFORMANCE
45.   The Association's performance was highly satisfactory throughout all phases of the
PASCO. During the project identification phase, the Bank acted as a catalyst, prompting the
Borrower to explore different options for reform, and offering help as needed to the National
Competitiveness Committee asked to develop the PASCO's blueprint. The Borrower indicated that
after a period of mutual discovery, the Bank staff involved and the Ivorian members of the PASCO
committee developed a solid relationship of mutual respect, trust and cooperation. The resulting
level of Ivorian internalization was high as evidenced throughout the PASCO's preparation,
appraisal, and supervision. Still, certain categories of reform like those involving the legal
environment and the liberalization of imports were delayed due to lack of coordination and follow
up between the Bank and the Borrower, which itself resulted perhaps from the difficult conditions
characterizing the pre-devaluation period when the CFA franc was overvalued and progress was
difficult.
VII. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
46.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory overall, despite isolated periods during
which the Program lost momentum. During the program's preparation, the Borrower performed
highly satisfactorily as evidenced by the fact that the PASCO was truly the result of a cooperative
effort between the Borrower and the Association. The Borrower took the lead during the project's
definition while the Association offered advice and assistance as needed.
47.    During the PASCO's implementation, the Borrower's performance record was mixed. On
the positive side, the Borrower implemented the majority of the reforms that were specified in the



I1
PASCO policy matrix, including many that were not supported by a corresponding conditionality.
The borrower has courageously maintained its course with respect to necessary reforms that were
likely to be unpopular. An example of the Borrower's commitment lies in the labor legislation,
which after much delay and difficulty was adopted. On the negative side, unexplained delays and
confused priorities have on occasion tarnished a record which is otherwise positive. For
approximately one year, the Borrower neglected to commission the requisite audit of the PASCO's
accounts. No satisfactory explanation was offered for this delay. During meetings with the
Borrower, it became evident that the Borrower did not appreciate fully the Association's
procurement procedures. Although the two audits commissioned by the Borrower were unqualified
and satisfactory, the second one indicated that amounts committed to finance imports under the
Amended Credit's last tranche were affected to invoices predating the 4 months retroactivity period
specified in the Amended Credit Agreement signed in February 1994. However, this interpretation
was invalidated by the Legal Department, which instead related the applicable eligibility period to
the original Credit Agreement signed in December 1991.
48.    Overall, the Borrower's performance was improved by its level of commitment to the
PASCO, as well as by the fact that it instituted a dialogue with the private sector in the context of
the PASCO, the associated PSA, and the preparation of the upcoming Private Sector development
operation.
VIII. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
49.    The outcome of the PASCO is rated as satisfactory. This is because, despite mixed
progress in implementing the Government's policy matrix, the project clearly achieved its central
objectives, and is likely to be sustainable.
50.   Notwithstanding obvious difficulties in measuring of the PASCO's macroeconomic impact
and in linking the project to the improving macroeconomic conditions, overall results were
encouraging. After an initial surge in January 1994, immediately after the devaluation, monthly
inflation rates through April fell into the 1 to 3 percent range. While the consumer price index for
May 1994 increased substantially due to the adjustments in public utility tariffs, inflation subsided
during the rest of 1994. The fiscal situation also appears to be improving as the Govermment spent
less than programmed and revenue targets were met, and 1994 trade data indicates that export
volumes in the first quarter grew by about 7 percent whereas import volumes shrunk by 22 percent
compared to the same period in 1993. As a result, the trade balance surplus was about CFA franc
60 billion or US$ 100 million. There were indications of an early supply response in a few sectors
of the economy, but data was too sketchy to make an accurate assessment. When asked about
qualitative improvements to the overall economic environment, private sector operators agree that
there are fewer severe constraints as a result of the PASCO. They readily indicate that the
business environment is far more predictable and user friendly than it ever was in C6te d'Ivoire.
Attitudes on both sides of the public-private sector fence are changing slowly. The private and
public sectors still tend to look at each other with a certain degree of suspicion, but with few
exceptions visible mostly in the case of the AGEPE and the labor environment, open hostilities of
the past are no longer the norm in public-private sector relations. The Ivorian fiscal structure has
been significantly simplified and fine-tuned. The VAT structure is now simple and generally
effective. The customs tariff was simplified and is applied with more consistency. Furthermore,
although imperfect, the Government's tax recovery achievements are an improvement over
previous practices with respect to customs tariffs, and other taxes and duties including the VAT.
Tariff and non-tariff barriers were reduced, and although the arrears situation lingers on, the export



12
subsidy system was eliminated following the CFA franc devaluation. Important reforms have been
implemented in the labor area, with a Labor code just adopted and passed. Although some
additional fine-tuning and allocation of adequate resources will be necessary, the framework for the
promotion of internal and external competition is in place, and is starting to show signs of activity.
The investment promotion apparatus is also in place, and has begun to produce some results as
well: a few enterprises were created at the One-Stop Window of the CEPICI which was officially
opened in March 1995.
51.    The chief complaints expressed by many operators have shifted from asking for sweeping
reforms to requesting only further business-environment fine-tuning. An important complaint
echoed by several operators concerned the issue of clearing Government arrears to the private
sector. Another unresolved issue was that operators felt the legal environment still suffered from
many ills. A window of opportunity will be opened by the regional efforts to integrate business
laws under the umbrella of the African Organisation for the Harmonization of Business Laws
(OHADA) since C6te d'lvoire is a signatory to the treaty.
52.    Overall, although it is difficult to measure project performance with precision since
performance indicators were not selected early in the project's life, and data was not taken at
regular intervals throughout the PASCO (e.g., no data on investment levels and enterprise creation
during the project's life), much positive subjective information about the benefits of the project
does exist. This positive outlook is reflected by the budding supply response observed in C6te
d'Ivoire, and the fact that a stronger cooperation link is starting to form between the Government
and the private sector. Perhaps a crucial achievement of the PASCO is the message filtering down
from the higher to the lower levels of Government that the private sector should no longer be
treated with suspicion or even paternalism, but deserves respect as the nation's engine of economic
growth.
IX.   FUTURE OPERATION
53.    A Private Sector development project defined by the Ivorian authorities as the direct
progeny of the PASCO is currently under preparation and will continue the work done under the
PASCO. The new operation's principal areas of intervention are expected to include targeted fiscal
and tax administration reforms, labor reforms, streamlining of port and customs procedures,
simplification of investment procedures, judicial reforms, and payment of domestic arrears.
X.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
54.    Perhaps the most important lesson of the PASCO stems from the extensive collaboration
that has taken place between the Association's staff, the Borrower, and the private sector during
the project's conception and its implementation. Much work was done to define the projects'
components through consensus, and as a result the Borrower was generally convinced of the
importance of reforms. This has affected favorably the climate in which reforms were to take
place, and enabled the Association's staff to spend most of their energies advising the Borrower,
rather than strictly policing the implementation of reforms.
55.    Still, the Bank should recognize that although some reforms carry many benefits in the
long run, they are inherently unpopular in the short term, and Bank supervision should be stepped
up to monitor their proper implementation. This was the case of certain labor reforms that were
strongly opposed by the labor unions. In spite of the Borrower's considerable efforts to explain the
potential benefits of labor reforms to workers, unions saw a threat in a liberalized and flexible



13
labor environment. They did not understand the benefits awaiting both employers and employees.
The Association's staff must be credited with helping C6te d'Ivoire prepare a fair yet flexible
Labor code through close follow up of this component, and constant consultation with the
Borrower.
56.    The PASCO has also illustrated for the Association the virtues of using flexibility in
specific circumstances. Although two particularly difficult conditions for the release of the second
tranche were waived, their implementation was effectively monitored under other following Bank
operations, and progress has been made in respect of both. Furthermore, this project demonstrates
the importance of including critical reforms as specific conditions. This will ensure their
implementation whether it happens in the current project, or in follow-up operations.
57.    Another important lesson of the PASCO is that in addition to the political will to
implement them, reforms require constant follow-up, and when appropriate adequate resource
allocation for them to work out. Because of their importance to the overall program, legal
framework reforms should have received more attention. The reforms dealing with the promotion
of internal and external competition have worked partially because the Government structure
created to implement the law did not have adequate resources to enforce it.
58.    Private sector development is a continuing process which requires considerable time before
reforms aimed at the private sector can be expected to generate a supply response. This results
primarily from the fact that reforms aiming to change mentalities in and out of Government involve
an inevitably slow process. Considering the public-private sector relations that predate the
PASCO, much was achieved in this respect, and a fruitful dialogue has been engaged.
59.    Care should be taken during the project design phase to ensure that the Borrower's
implementation capacity is not exceeded.
60.    More effort should be invested in educating the Borrower about the auditing requirements
that accompany Bank financing.
61.   Measurable performance indicators should be identified early into the project cycle for this
type of adjustment operation, and an effort should be made to establish a logical link between them
and the project's performance.
62.   Finally, despite the complexity of its program, the PASCO's conditionality was concise yet
omitted nothing essential for the achievement of the Credit's objectives. Despite a few delays, and
the waiver of two conditions, this simplicity of design has helped maintain control over economic
reforms in the midst of difficult conditions surrounding the CFA franc devaluation. The result was
a project with a strong central theme, and whose implementation could be monitored even under
difficult circumstances.



14
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
COMPETITIVENESS AND REGULATORY
REFORM ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(LOAN 3429-IVC, CREDIT 2324-IVC. CREDIT 2324-1-IVC)
PART II: STATISTICALANNEXES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:  Project Costs
Table 8B:  Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions



15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives           Substantial         Partial          Negligible       Not   licablD
Macro Policies                         [El               0                 0                   0
Sector Policies                        [El               0                 0                   0
Financial Objectives                   [E3               0                 0                   0
Institutional Development               0                1[1               0                   0
Physical Objectives                    0                 0                 0                   [EJ
Poverty Reduction                      0                 [1E               0                   0
Gender Issues                           0                0                 0                   [EJ
Other Social Objectives                 0                0                 0                   1E3
Environmental Objectives                0                0                  0                  E
Public Sector Management               [E                O                  0                  0
Private Sector Development             (E]               0                 0                   0
Training and Technology                 0                0                  0                  EEl
B. Project Sustainability                 Likely                    Unlikely                    Uncertain
[El                         0                           0
I-liRNv
C. Bank Performance                        satisfactorv            Satisfactorv                    fici
Identification                         [E                          0                           0
Preparation Assistance                 El                          0                           0
Appraisal                              (E3                         0                           0
Supervision                            0                          [El                          0
Highlv
D. Borrower Perfoxmance                    satisfactory            Satisfactorv                  Deficieut
Preparation                            [El                         0                           0
Implementation                         0                          [E                           0
Covenant Compliance                    0                          [El                          0
ighv                                                   Hi"
E. Assessment of Outcome                  satisfactor    Satisfactory     Unsatisfactry       unsatisfacto
0 ~ ~~~    ~       ~~~~~~~~ [E_ 



16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loaukredit title     i      :     rpse                   Year of approval            Status
1. Financial Sector Adjustment  The PASFI aimed to restore        1991                Closed.
Program                     the health of the financial
sector through: (a) a
rehabilitation of the existing
commercial institutions; and
(b) improvements in the
environment in which these
institutions exist
FaL1wing operqUons:
1. Privatization Support    The project aimed to further          1992              Supervision.
Project                      the process of privatization by
providing primarily technical
assistance and institutional
support for the total or partial
divestiture of selected public
enterprises.
2. Economic Management       The project aimed to improve         1993              Supervision.
Project                      the government's management
of economic issues and
development through support
to several ministries and
sectoral reforms.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps ins Project Cycle:         Date Planned           Date ActuaU
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)         05/90                 05/90
Appraisal                                          06/91                 06/91
Negotiations                                       11/91                 11/91
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)       11/91                 11/91
Board Presentation                                 12/91                 12/91
Signing                                            12/91                 12/91
Effectiveness                                      12/91                 03/92
First Tranche Release (if applicable)              12/91                 03/92
Second Tranche Release                             12/92                 08/94
Project Completion                                 12/92                 09/94
Loan Closing                                       12/92                 09/94



17
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY 92           FY 93           FY 94            FY 95
Appraisal Estimate
Loan 3429-IVC                          25,000*         50,000**.        N.A.            N.A.
Credit 2324-fVC                        25,000*         N.A.             N.A.            N.A.
Credit 2324-1-IVC**                    N.A.            N.A.             N.A.            N.A.
Actual
Loan 3429-IVC                          25,000*         0                N.A.            N.A.
Credit 2324-IVC                        25,000*         N.A.             N.A.            N.A.
Credit 2324-1-IVC                      N.A.            N.A.             N.A.            50,000**
Actual as percent of Estimate
Loan 3429-IVC                          100             0                N.A.            N.A.
Credit 2324-IVC                        100             N.A.             N.A.            N.A.
Credit 2324-1-IVC                      N.A.            N.A.             N.A.             100***
Date of Final Disbursement              July 26, 1994
* Loan 3429-IVC and Credit 2324-IVC becane effective on March 10, 1992, and the first tranche disbursement
was effected at that time for the full amount anticipated at appraisal. Credit 2324-IVC had only one tranche, and was
fully disbursed on March 10, 1992.
**   Following the January 12, 1994 devaluation of the CFA franc, Loan 3429-IVC's second tranche of US$
50,000,000 was canceled at the Borrower's request. Credit 2324-1-IVC amended Credit 2324-IVC and provided
additional financing of US$ 50,000,000.
* This percentage is calculated based on the amount of expected disbursements under Credit 2324-1-IVC.
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Not Applicable.
Key indicators for implementation were not specifically defined in the President's Report. The project's key
elements were included in the conditionalities, and the delays that resulted are documented in Table 10 below.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not Applicable.



18
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
N.B.Although the Project did not finance any studies, several were prepared by the Government's consultant agency, the DCGTx, and by private consultants. They are listed
below.
.... ... .0f :                     $f :   f :+:  :;  :Study                           Purpose as defined at              Status          :npact of study
:::  ..... . .:::  :   :Appraisal/redefined
Export subsidy: financial impact of the new methods of calculation and rates (Prime   Prerequisite to a reform of the export  Done (July 1991)   Export Subsidy
a I 'exportation: impact financier du nouveau mode de determination et propositions  incentive system                                 halved.
de taux)
Export subsidy: proposal for a new method of calculation based on compensation for  Study the possibility of reintroducing  Draft (June 1992)   Export subsidy
higher costs (Prime a 1 'exportation: proposition d 'un nouveau mode de calcul base   the export subsidy, albeit based on a           eliminated.
sur la methode de compensation des surcou2ts)                               different calculation.
Study for the rationalization of investment incentives (Etude de rationalisation des    Help restructure the investment  Working draft  Investment Code
mesures d'ncitation a l'Investissement)                                     incentive system                       (March 1993)       prepared.
Extension by option of VAT applicability to agricultural, forest, fishing export  Help extend the Value Added Tax  Working draft      VAT extended to
goods (Extension par option du champs d 'application de la TVA aux produits  (VAT) to as many products as possible.   (May 1993)      some products in
agricoles, forestiers et halieutiques d 'exportation)                                                                                 stages.
Extension by option of VAT applicability to transport of goods (Extension par  Help extend the VAT to as many      Working draft      VAT to be extended
option du champs d 'application de la TVA aux transports de marchandises)   products as possible.                  (June 1993)        in stages.
Extension of VAT deduction to large transport vehicles (Extension du droit de  Help extend VAT deductibility to as  2nd working draft   VAT deductibility
diduction de la TVA aux vehicules poids lourds)                             many products as possible.            (June 1993)         extended.
Elimination of the buffer rule in productive sectors for lightly transformed products   Help extend VAT deductibility to as  2nd working draft   VAT deductibility
(Elimination de la regle du butoir dans les secteurs productifs dans le cas des  many products as possible.       (August 1993)       extended.
produits legerement transformes)
Study for the reduction of VAT rates to three (Etude sur la reduction des taux de  Simplify the VAT rate structure  Working draft     VAT rate structured
TVA a trois au maximum)                                                                                            (April 1993)       simplified.
Study on the elimination of VAT exonerations (Etude sur la suppression des  Reduce VAT exemptions                  2nd working draft   VAT exemptions
exonerations de TVA)                                                                                               (August 1993)      reduced.
Study on the impact of dismantling quantitative restrictions and non-tariff barriers    Study the impact of removing non-tariff   Drafts (August  Most NTBs officially
(Etude d 'impact du demantelement des restrictions quantitatives et des barrieres  barriers (NTB) before proceeding with    1993-April 1994)   removed.
non-tariffaires)                                                            reforms. (Various cases considered: e.g.
bags' production, etc.)
Evaluation of fiscal cost of special conventions (Evaluation du cozlt fiscal des  Study the cost of existing exceptions to    2nd working draft   No new special
regimes d 'exception)                                                       the normally applicable fiscal regimes.    (May 1993)     conventions are
officially granted.
Study on customs tariff reforms (Etude sur la reforme du tarifdouanier)     Evaluate possibilities for the customs  Final draft       Tariff simplified.
tariff reform                         (September 1992)



19
Tublc 8A: PRoject Costs
Not Applicable.
The Project was structured as a sector adjustment operation, and provided reunbursements for the foreign expenditures of eligible imports into C8te d'Ivoire..
Table BB: Project Financing
.,,.::-.............  . ... .  ..RAAe   ....USM
-________ .  :.-..  .. -:-            Appraslstimat (US$M  :_.__           :.._ --_--_- Actuial/Laltest Eatirmate(USSM)
Local            Foreign           Total              Local           Foreign               Total
Source                      Costs              Costs                               Costs            Costs
IBRD/IDA                    0                  100              100                0                100                  100
Cofiancing Institution      N.A.               N.A.            N.A.                N.A.            N.A.                  N.A.
Other Extemal Sources       N.A.               N.A.            N.A.                N.A.            N.A.                  N.A.
Domestic Contribution       N.A.              N.A.             N.A.                N.A.            N.A.                  N.A.
TOTAL                      0                  100             100                 0                100                  100
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable.



20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Republic of CMte d'Ivoire
Ln. 3429-IVC, Cr. 2324-NVC, Cr. 2324-1-IVC
Agreement Section Covenant Present  Origial    Revised                             Descflptzonof                                         Comments
type    status  filfilhrwnt fulfillment                         covenant
date       date       . .   :;   . .... ...
Cr. 2324-  1.01    9        CP       03/95     04/95       Not later than six months after the closing date or such later date as  A preliminary draft was given to the Association.
IVC                                                        may be agreed for this purpose between the borrower and the
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request on the execution of the program
referred in the preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
2.02 (b) I        CP      12/91      12/91      The Borrower shall, for the purpose of the Project, open and  The audit indicated that although the account
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in CAA on terms and   was in fact opened, it was not held in US dollars
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into and  but in CFA francs.
payments out of the special shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of schedule 3 to this Agreement.
3.01    9         C       Project    Project Life (a)The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the  No comment.
Life                  request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program.
9        C        Project    Project Life (b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish  No comment.
Life                 to the Association for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
3.02    3         C       Project    Project Life Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the  The audit could not certify that all amounts were
Life                  goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be  used for the acquisition of goods and services
governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  within the eligibility period. The amended
Credit Agreement signed in February 1994
contained a 4 months retroactivity date, but the
Legal Department's interpretation relates the
actual date of retroactivity to the original Credit
Agreement. This means that the auditor's



21
Agreement Section  Covenant Present  Original   Revised                                Description of                                           Comments
type    status  fulfillment fulfillment                            covenant
date       date
interpretation is incorrect, and their qualification
can be considered null.
3.03 (a) I         C       Project    Project Life (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records   No comment.
Life                   and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices, the expenditures financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
3.03(b)  1         CD      Project    Project Life (b) The Borrower shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to  The audits were not performed on a yearly basis
Life                  in paragraph (a) of this section including those for the special  as required, but for each tranche instead. They
account for each fiscal year audited in accordance with appropriate   do cover all disbursements however.
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) fumish to the Association as soon
as available but in any case not later than six months after the end of
each such year a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) fumish the Association such
other information concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
3.03 (c) 1         C       Project    Project Life For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the  Although the auditor certified that the CAA's
Life                   Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, intemal procedures were sufficiently reliable to
the Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in  justify the withdrawals made under this Credit,
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts  they also indicated that photocopies of
reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after  statements of expenditures were used and they
the Association has received the audit report for the fiscal year in    could not guarantee that the invoices produced
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all    could not serve to justify expenses more than
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts, and other  once. However, the Bank has accepted
documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the       traditionally the practice of submitting
Association's representatives to examine such records; and (iv)  photocopies of invoices and customs documents
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the Annual    because firms do not submit their originals
Audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and the report of  receipts to the Government.
such Audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
years together with the procedures and intemal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related



22
X . . .   . . .   . . . . s . .   . . .   . .  . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .   . . . . . . .                . . .   . . .   . . . . .   . 
Agreemnt Sectiou Covenant   :st             i        oevise                             Descnptio.t...i........ .f     :                                                   .Conts
tye status:~ faUilbnent fuwltnient                              ovenlant:                   ..    .......  ..... . 
.... .... .date        date        .....            :
withdrawals.
Ln. 3429-  5.01     12        CD       12/91      3/92         As conditions of effectiveness: (a) that all conditions precedent to   No comment.
IVC                                                            the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement shall have
been fulfilled other than those related to the effectiveness of this
Agreement; (b) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the
Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the program; (c) the
Borrower's draft law on promotion of competition and reduction of
price regulations has been adopted by the Council of Ministers and
submitted to the National Assembly; (d) all necessary arrangements
have been made and are in effect, for: (i) the elimination of the
monopoly of the Borrower's Public Employment Agency regarding
hiring; (ii) the elimination of prior administrative authorization for
workers' overtime; (iii) the elimination of the obligation to have
occasional or daily workers in a permanent status after a ninety
period of continuous or intermittent employment; and (iv) the
elimination of the obligation to obtain the authorization from the
Borrower's Ministry of Labor prior to labor forced reduction
motivated by economic reasons; and (e) a list of products which will
no longer be subject to quantitative restrictions and non-tariff
barriers as of January 1, 1992, and an indicative list to be finalized
through the issue of the decree referred to under paragraph 2 (c) of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been furnished to the Bank
Ln 3429-  1         12        CD       12/92       1/94        As conditions for the release of the second tranche that: the    No comment.
IVC /                                                          export subsidy system has been revised to take into account the level
Schedule                                                       of competitiveness of the economy and enterprises.
4
2 (a)    12        CD       12/92      1/94        That the following measures to liberalize imports and reduce non-   No comment.
tariff barriers were taken: elimination of import reference prices of
a protective nature;
(b)      12        CD       12/92      6/93        elimination of declaration of intent to import and a priori       No comment.
authorizations, except for public order or health reasons;
(c)      12        CD       12/92      5/94         issuance of a decree for substantial reduction of import prohibitions  No comment.
and licenses; and



23
Agreement Section  Covenant Present  Origimal    Revised                                           Description of                                                  Comments
type      status  fulfillment fulfilhnent                                   covenant
date         date
(d)       12         CD         12/92       5/94          adoption of a timetable for the lifting, during a period not exceeding  No comment.
three years of all import prohibitions and licenses not included in the
decree referred to under paragraph 2 (c) above, except for those
justified on public order or health grounds, and a short list agreed
upon with the Bank.
3 (a)     12         CP        12/92        N.A.         An action plan has been adopted for: (a) extension of the value          This condition was waived. It will be monitored
added tax to all export products in the agriculture, forestry, and       under upcoming operations.
fisheries sectors, and to transport of goods; and
(b)       12         CD         12/92       1/94          (b) reduction of VAT rates to a maximum of three.                        No comment.
4         12         NC         12/92       N.A.         A plan for the rationalization of investment incentives, including a    This condition was waived. Since then, the
first set of draft implementation measures has been adopted.             Council of Ministers adopted an investment code
and sent it to Parliament. The Bank was not
informed if it was passed.
5 (a)     12         CD        12/92        1/94         A new Customs tariff has been prepared and its effective date has    No comunent.
been set. This tariff takes into account the level of competitiveness
of the economy and enterprises, and budgetary constraints, and
includes: (a) two levies (customs duty and fiscal duty) excluding fees
for services, compensatory levies, taxes resulting from international
agreements and internal taxes;
(b)       12         CD         12/92       1/94          a maximum of six rates for the fiscal duty.                             No comment.
6         12         CD        12/92        6/94         An action plan to reduce labor market rigidities through the labor       No comment.
code reform has been adopted.
Cont typea:
1.  =  Accounts/audits                                       8.  = Indigenous people
2.  =  Froancinl performanceirevenue generation from beeficianes  9.  = Monitoring review, and reporting
3.  =  Flow and utEization ofproject finds                   10.  - Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
4.  =  Counterpat fsding                                     1. - Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetay or other resource allocaton
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing agny    12.     Sectors or cross-sectora pohcy/ regulatory/institutional action
6.  =  Environmental covenants                               13. - Other
7.  =  Involuntay rettlement
Pitit Suws:
C  =  covenant comphed with
CD -  compled wils aft delay
CP- complied with partially
NC - not comphed with



24
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There do not seem to be any cases of non-compliance with Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Ptge C r                          Planned                         Revised                       Actual
Weeks            USS            Weeks            US.             Weeks            USS
Preparation through Appraisal    Not Available       N.A.            N.A             N.A.               2.32         4,348
(N.A)
Appraisal                            N.A.            NA              N.A.            N.A.             40.19         95,612
Negotiations through Board           N.A.            N.A.             N.A.           N.A.              29.75        69,388
Approval
Supervision                          N.A             N.A.            N.A             N.A.             163.47       409,296
Completion                           N.A             N.A.            N.A             N.A.               9.02        23,169
TOTAL                               N.A             N.A.            N.A.            N.A              244.75       601,813
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance- Rating
Number                       Specialized       Impicimen-     Develop-
Sa  o            Mo:State     of          Days in        Staff Skills       tation         meAt          Types of
.24
cyclePrjtCycl                 Persons        Field        Reprepsene           Status      Objectives      Pmblem
Through Appraisal      -         -             -             -
Appraisal through      10/91     3             10            E, E, DC
Board Approval
Board Approval         2/92       1            15            E                        I             1
through Effectiveness
Supervision 1          6/92      4             19            E, E, E, E              2              2             F, T
2            7/93       6            18             E, E, E, F, C, T        2              2             F, T
3            3/94       6            16             E, E, E, DC, T          2              2              T
Completion             3/95      2             17            E, P                     2             2            F, M, T
Key to ratings: 1 Problem free or minor problems; 2 Moderate problem; 3 Major problem.
2
Date of return to headquarters.
Key to staff skills: E Economist; DC Division Chief; T Tariff Specialist; F Public Finances Specialist; C Competitivity Specialist; P
Private Sector Development Specialist
4
Key to types of problems: F Financial; M Managerial; T Technical



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
COMPETITIVENESS AND REGULATORY
REFORM ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(LOAN 3429-IVC, CREDIT 2324-IVC, CREDIT 2324-1-IVC)
APPENDIX A:
MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE






PROGRAMME D'AJUSTEMENT SECTORIEL
"COMPETITIVITE ET REFORME DU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE"
(PASCO)
MISSION DE PREPARATION DU
RAPPORT D'EVALUATION RETROSPECTIVE
DU 28 FEVRIER AU 16 MARS 1995
AIDE MEMOIRE






I.   DEROULEMENT DE LA MISSION
1.     Une mission de la Banque Mondiale a sejoume a Abidjan du 28 Fevrier au 16 Mars 1995.
La mission avait pour objet de rassembler les informations necessaires a la preparation du rapport
de fin d'execution ainsi que d'etablir un bilan exhaustif du Projet d'Ajustement Sectoriel
"Competitivite et Reforme du Cadre Reglementaire" (PASCO). La mission etait composee de M.
Jamil Zouaoui, Division des Echanges, Finances, et Investissements du Departement de l'Afrique
Centrale-Occidentale, Chef de mission, et de Mme. Coty M. Peccoud-Diakite (Consultante). Mme.
Elke Kreuzwieser, Economiste, ainsi que M. Peter Watson Chef de Division, AF4TF, se sont joints
a la mission a partir du 8 Mars 1995 pour des interventions specifiques en relation avec la
promotion du secteur prive, et la preparation du nouveau projet s'y rapportant. La mission tient
d'abord a remercier les autorites ivoiriennes pour l'excellent accueil qui lui a ete reservee. II y a
egalement lieu de noter la franchise et la qualite des echanges qui ont eu lieu.
2.     Le present aide-memoire reflete les avis de l'Emprunteur, ainsi que des autres intervenants
impliqu6s dans la mise en oeuvre du PASCO, et les conclusions de la mission qui seront confirmes
par la Direction de la Banque Mondiale. La mission a l'intention de preparer un rapport
d'evaluation retrospective de projet (ou rapport d'achevement de projet) avant le 15 Mai 1995, et le
transmettra au gouvemement pour commentaires prochainement. La mission s'est tenue a la
disposition du gouvemement durant sa duree et a prevu de faire parvenir ses commentaires sur la
contribution du gouvemement au rapport d'evaluation retrospective.
II.    CADRE GENERAL ET OBJECTIFS DE LA MISSION
1.     Le Pret 3429-lVC, le Crddit 2324-I-IVC et le Credit 2324-I-IVC etant arrives a leur
cloture, les accords et les directives de la Banque Mondiale exigent l'elaboration d'un rapport
d'achevement de projet. Ce rapport est normalement presente au Conseil D'Administration six
mois au plus tard apres la cl6ture de l'operation. L'objectif primordial du rapport d'achevement de
projet est de contribuer a ameliorer la qualite et l'efficacite des operations financees par la Banque
Mondiale et de renforcer la capacite et I'aptitude de l'emprunteur a preparer et mettre en oeuvre les
programmes et projets. Un tel rapport est compose de trois parties qui se structurent comme suit:
(a) la premiere presente l'analyse de l'execution et des resultats du point de vue de la Banque ; (b)
la seconde, preparee par la Banque, presente les statistiques decnivant la mise en oeuvre de
l'operation ; et (c) la troisieme inclue les differentes pieces jointes et elements factuels, ainsi que
l'evaluation r6trospective faite par l'emprunteur.
III.   REVUE DES COMPOSANTES SECTORIELLES DU PASCO
1.    Le travail effectue par la mission a couvert l'ensemble des activites prevues dans la
matrice de politique du programme adopte par le Gouvemement de la Republique de C6te d'Ivoire.
Cependant, a cause de leur nombre important, le present aide-memoire n'offre pas de commentaires
sur la mise en application de chaque action prevue dans la matrice de politique sectorielle du
Gouvernement. L'aide-memoire se limite a commenter les reformes pour lesquelles des difficultes
ont eu lieu, ainsi que celles qui etaient considerees comme essentielles au succes du Programme. A
l'exception de deux conditions pour le deboursement de la seconde tranche, les conditions
specifiques du PASCO ont ete remplies. La mission a constate que, dans l'ensemble, la plupart
des reformes du PASCO citees dans la matrice de politique du Gouvemement ont ete executees de
maniere satisfaisante.



2
2.     Fiscalite Inteme. Mesures liees a la TVA. Dans l'ensemble, les reformes liees a la
fiscalite inteme ont ete mises en place de maniere satisfaisante. Les points de contention ainsi que
certaines reformes-cles sont enumerees ici-bas. Le premier point evoque avec la mission etait que,
si theoriquement le systeme de remboursement accelere de la TVA a e  mis en place, par contre
des retards de remboursement paraissent continuer d'avoir lieu systematiquement. La mission a e
informee que, selon la procedure actuelle, les operateurs soumettent un dossier a la Direction
Generale des Imp6ts (DGI) qui, apres examen, delivre dans un delai d'un mois un ordonnancement
autorisant le Tresor Public a effectuer les paiements. En partie a cause de difficultes de tresorerie,
ces paiements n'ont pas lieu dans le delai anticipe de trois mois, mais plut6t dans un ddlai de six
mois generalement, et qui s'etendrait parfois jusqu'a un an. Afin de prevenir la fraude, la DGI a
indique qu'elle exige des operateurs souhaitant un remboursement de TVA de verser une caution
bancaire egale au montant du remboursement demande, bien que cela puisse constituer une entrave
aux demandes de remboursement. Selon la DGI, la situation concernant les arrieres de TVA s'est
amelioree.
3.     Le second point visait les etudes d'impact concemant les mesures liees aux reformes de la
TVA qui n'ont pas ete actualisees. Cependant, la DGI a entame le processus de rassemblement des
donnees necessaires pour effectuer I'actualisation de ces etudes. Celles-ci devraient etre completees
dans le courant des six prochains mois. La mission souhaite recevoir un calcul des montants des
pertes ou gains de recettes effectifs resultant des mesures relatives a la TVA qui ont deja e  mises
en application, ainsi qu'un expose de la methodologie utilisee.
4.     En ce qui conceme l'extension du champs d'application de la TVA a tous les produits
agricoles, forestiers, et halieutiques, ainsi qu'au transport de marchandises, la mission a ete
informee par les autorites du besoin de proceder par etapes pour des raisons (a) de capacite de
gestion administrative des reformes, et (b) de pertes de recettes anticipees. Les autorites consultees
voudraient disposer de suffisamment de temps pour malitriser la gestion du recouvrement de cette
taxe sur les produits deja assujettis avant d'etendre la taxe A de nouveaux produits. Les autorites
ont indique que cette gestion serait compliqu&e du fait que le prelevement d'imp6ts aupres du
secteur informel reste difficile A contr6ler.
5.     Avant de mettre en oeuvre l'extension de la TVA au transport de marchandises, les
autorites ont commande une etude supplementaire dont les conclusions resteraient une etape
pr6alable A l'extension de la TVA A cc secteur. Pour ce qui est de 1'extension de la TVA aux
produits du bois, les autorites attendent les conclusions du plan forestier. En cc qui conceme la
liste de produits exoneres de TVA exigee dans la matrice d'activites du PASCO, les autorites ont
indique qu'une liste de produits pour lesquels l'exoneration sera abolie est en cours de preparation
et pourrait faire l'objet d'une revision dans le contexte de l'annexe fiscale de la loi de Finance de
1995 qui sera prochainement promulguee. La mission a note que les autorites considerent ces
produits comme etant de premiere necessite, et eprouverait donc des reticences a percevoir la TVA
dessus. La mission a egalement note que la loi concemant les remboursements de la TVA percue
sur les vehicules poids lourds a bien e  votee, mais qu'elle n'est toujours pas publiee; les
remboursements ne sont toujours pas effectues.
6.     La mission a ete informee que le recensement des conventions speciales et agrements
prioritaires deja accordes feront l'objet d'une actualisation imminente. Cependant, la DGI a revele
l'existence d'une nouvelle convention d'etablissement. La mission souhaite obtenir confirmation et
details concemant cette information.
7.     La mission a ete informee par les autorit6s que le secteur formel ne semble pas arriver A
repercuter l'ASDI sur le secteur informel qui a tendance A chercher A s'approvisionner hors ASDI.



3
De facon a estimer les montants mis en cause par cet imp6t, la mission a conseille aux autorites
d'effectuer une etude pour determiner I'ASDI net, plut6t que I'ASDI brut dont les chiffres sont deja
connus.
8.     La mission a ete informee que les imp6ts fonciers ont e  reformes -- ils beneficient
actuellement d'un taux unique de 15 % pour l'immobilier commercial, et de 4% pour le residentiel.
La mission a note que l'imp6t de la Patente n'a pas beneficie d'une reforme comme prevu durant la
preparation du PASCO.
9.     La mission a egalement ete informee que la regle du butoir n'a pas ete eliminee dans la loi
de finance 94, mais plut6t attenuee en etendant les situations d'exception a l'application de cette
regle aux: (a) investissements; (b) exportations de produits bruts; (c) produits taxables au taux
reduit de la TVA ; et (d) cessations d'activites economique et commerciale. Les autorites ont
souligne leur besoin de mesurer l'impact de la limitation de la regle du butoir avant de proceder a
son elimination.
10.    En conclusion, la mission et le gouvemement ont pu degager les points suivants concemant
les reformes de la fiscalite interieure. 11 convient de mener une reflexion approfondie sur la
poursuite de ces reformes car l'objectif d'allegement de la pression fiscale pour le secteur formel
n'est concevable que s'il va de pair avec un elargissement de l'assiette pour securiser les recettes.
Or, selon la DGI, les progres escomptes en matiere d'elargissement de l'assiette, notamment la
ma^itrise du recouvrement aupres du secteur informel, n'ont pas suivi la reduction des taux. La
DGI recommande donc une pause dans le programme de reforme afin de mieux evaluer son impact
r6el.
11.    Fiscalite de Porte. Concernant ce volet, la mission a pu constater une simplification reelle
de la fiscalit6 de porte en C6te d'Ivoire. Le Gouvemement a pris des mesures afm d'accelerer les
procedures de dedouanement, ainsi que la collecte des droits de porte. Ces mesures consistent
principalement a la creation au port d'Abidjan d'un seul bureau regissant a la fois les operations
d'importation et celles d'exportation. Les services des douanes ont aussi permis a un nombre limite
d'op6rateurs de b6neficier de la possibilite de recourir aux procedures accelerees de d6douanement.
Cependant, l'objectif de delivrance du "bon a enlever" en 48 heures ne semble pas toujours atteint
selon les dires de certains operateurs et autres utilisateurs des services douaniers.
12.    La mission a e  informee que le gouvemement a fait executer des etudes pour evaluer
l'impact budgetaire de la mise en oeuvre de la reforme concemant la fiscalite de porte. Ces etudes
ont revele que le manque a gagner des recettes fiscales s'eleverait a plus de 40 milliards de francs
CFA. La mission suggere de proceder a une etude a posteriori du coat reel de ces reformes afin de
les comparer aux estimations initiales. Cette etude pourrait apporter des precisions chiffrees sur
l'impact budgetaire de chaque volet des reformes de la fiscalite de porte engagees dans le contexte
du PASCO.
13.    Les autorites ont indiqu6 a la mission que les simplifications tarifaires engendr&es par le
PASCO ont provoque une amelioration de la gestion de la fiscalite de porte aussi bien pour les
autorites que pour les utilisateurs priv&s. La mission a aussi ete informee par les autorites que
l'unification des taux a contribue a la decision de l'administration de ne plus accorder de tarifs de
faveur aux importateurs.
14.    Incitations a l'exportation. Plusieurs accomplissements Uies au PASCO ont eu lieu sous ce
volet. Cependant, parmi les reformes qui ont occasionne des difficultes, figure la prime a
l'exportation. Cette prime etait un palliatif a la surevaluation du franc CFA, et avait e  financ6e
par une surtaxe destinee a disparaitre apres la devaluation. La mission a et informee que



4
plusieurs problemes ont affecte cette prime. En premier lieu, la methode de calcul utilisee pour
evaluer le montant de la prime due A chaque operateur etait trop complexe. De plus, la prime
aurait fait l'objet de beaucoup de fraude de la part des operateurs prives, ce qui a complique de
surcroit le processus d'evaluation des montants de prime a payer. A ce jour, une partie du stock
d'arrieres a et titrisee mais les operateurs en beneficiant ont du mal A les monnayer. La prime a
e  supprimee au lendemain de la devaluation.
15.    La mission a ete informee que les modalites du systeme de "drawback" n'ont pas ete
definies a la date de redaction de cet aide-memoire. Un autre frein a la mise en place de ce systeme
se situe au niveau du Tresor qui semble ne pas avoir les moyens d'effectuer des eventuels
remboursements. Un probleme que la mission a releve et pour lequel il ne semble pas y avoir de
solution immediate reside dans l'unicite de caisse du Tresor public.
16.    La mission a aussi ete informee que les garanties bancaires continuent d'etre exigees des
importateurs souhaitant beneficier des regimes d'admission temporaire, ce qui peut constituer un
point de blocage pour les petits importateurs. La mission a note une anomalie concemant la
fabrication de certains equipements agricoles destinees A la vente en Cote d'Ivoire, pour lesquelles
l'entr6e en regime temporaire des metaux utilises est permise, mais ou ii semble qu'aucun des droits
de porte normalement exigibles ne soit jamais percu en depit du fait que les outils manufactures ne
sont jamais reexportees. La mission attire l'attention des autorites sur ce point, qui devrait etre
resolu en primant la recherche de la competitivite des producteurs, tout en evitant d'offrir des
protections ou subventions deguisees.
17.    En ce qui concerne les transports de marchandises, la mission a ete informee que la
liberalisation promise dans le contexte du PASCO n'avait pas e  mise en oeuvre de facon generale.
De plus, I'attribution des chargements A la sortie du port d'Abidjan fait toujours l'objet d'une
organisation qui ne laisse pas aux importateurs le libre choix du transporteur. La mission attire
donc l'attention des autorites sur la question du transport des marchandises qui avait ete jugde
essentielle lors de la preparation du PASCO.
18.    La mission a e  informee que le Comite de Liaison entre le Secteur Public et le Secteur
Prive ne fonctionne pas de facon adequate. Une etude de l'ONUDI aurait defini differents schemas
de partenariat entre les deux secteurs, mais les autorit6s n'en ont pas tenu compte. Il a aussi ete
indique a la mission que la presence du secteur pnve au sein de cet important comite n'est pas
aussi repr6sentative que souhaitable.
19.    La mission a observe que les notices "d'intention d'importations" ont ete remplacees par
des "Fiches de Renseignement Individuelles" qui requierent les memes informations. En toute
equite, la mission a ete informee que la duree de temps necessaire A la delivrance de ce formulaire
par la SGS prenne tout au plus une demi-joumre. Les autorites ont indique que ces fiches sont
necessaires A la SGS afin d'effectuer un contr6le des marchandises importees en C6te d'Ivoire avant
leur chargement dans les ports etrangers.
20.    La mission a ete informee, qu'a l'heure actuelle, il n'a pas ete etabli de mecanisme officiel
d'echange d'information periodique entre le Service des Douanes, la Direction Generale des Imp6ts,
le Tresor, la Banque Centrale, et autres organismes etatiques a vocation financiere.
21.    Selon les dires des operateurs prives, confirmes par une etude conduite par la firme Arthur
Andersen, une double assurance a l'importation est actuellement percue. Bien que les pourcentages
indiques a la mission soient minimes par rapport au montant total des importations, il n'en serait
pas moins souhaitable d'6liminer ce qui reste un frein a la competitivite.
22.    Environnement du Travail. Les resultats concemant l'environnement du travail sont



5
mitiges. La mission a ete informee que les contributions salariales des employeurs sont passees a
0% pour les travailleurs ivoiriens, et ont ete reduites de 14 a 10% pour les expatries.
23.    Les mesures concemant l'assouplissement du marche du travail prevoyaient l'elimination
du monopole de l'OMOCI sur les placements, et cet objectif a ete atteint. Cependant, la mission a
releve plusieurs consid6rations preoccupantes concemant le champs d'activite de l'AGEPE. En
premier lieu, I'AGEPE a notifie A la mission son intention de faire du placement: cette agence
publique se place donc en competition directe avec les agences de placement (et de travail
interimaire?) privees. Cette concurrence pourrait s'averer deloyale du fait que: (a) I'AGEPE est un
etablissement public ayant acces aux moyens de l'Etat et n'a pas la meme structure de coutts que les
etablissements purement prives ; et (b) il serait envisageable que l'AGEPE puisse utiliser le
renouvellement des agrements des agences de placement privees a mauvais escient. De plus,
I'AGEPE exige des agences privees de lui fournir a posteriori des statistiques sur leurs activites de
placement, mais ne garantit pas de preserver la confidentialite de cette information vis-a-vis de ses
propres services de placement. La mission a ete informee que le personnel de I'AGEPE (estime aux
alentours de 90 aujourd'hui) provient a 70% de l'OMOCI.
24.    Le nouveau code du travail a e  adopte en conseil des ministres, et vote par l'Assembl6e
Nationale. 11 a ete publie dans le Journal Officiel du 23 Fevrier 1995.
25.    Promotion de la concurrence et competitivite interne et externe. La Commission de la
Concurrence a e  creee conformmment a la matrice du PASCO, et semble fonctionner. La mission
a pu prendre connaissance des besoins materiels et humains de ce service lors d'une reunion avec
ses responsables. 11 a aussi ete indique a la mission que cette commission souffre d'un manque
d'autonomie de ressources et de gestion inconsistant avec I'accomplissement de ses prerogatives.
La mission a requ une copie du premier rapport d'activites de la Commission. Un des problemes
affectant la bonne marche de la Commission decoule de ce que la saisine directe par les entreprises
privees n'est pas actuellement autorisee par les textes qui regissent le fonctionnement de la
Commission.
26.    La mission a releve l'existence d'une Direction de la Concurrence au sein des services du
Ministere du Commerce et de l'Industrie. Parmi les multiples fonctions de cette direction, la
mission a denombre plusieurs activites importantes (contr6le de la publicite, protection des
consommateurs, contr6le des fraudes, etc.). Au cours des echanges que la mission a eus avec les
responsables de la Commission et ceux de la Direction de la Concurrence, la mission a constate
que ces deux services reglementent la concurrence. La responsabilite du Ministere du Commerce
est limitee au contr6le des pratiques individuelles, et celle de la Commission au contr6le des
pratiques collectives. De facon A eviter tout risque d'empietement juridictionnel, il serait
souhaitable que les surfaces d'intervention de ces deux services soient demarquees plus clairement.
27.    Dans le contexte de la competitivite exteme, la mission a ete informee qu'une etude visant
A ameliorer le systeme des valeurs de reference avait e  entreprise, mais qu'elle n'a pas ete
completee. Un Fichier de la Valeur n'a donc pas ete constitue. Les autorites ont indique a la
mission que, par la suite, les valeurs de references ont e  eliminees completement en rapport avec
l'etablissement du contrat avec la SGS.
28.    L'administration a note que les Procedures Accelerees de Dedouanement (PAD) font
l'objet d'une forte demande de la part des utilisateurs, et que les risques de fraude en sont
considerablement accrus. Les autorites ont aussi indique que la verification a posteriori des
marchandises (c.a.d. apres delivrance du bon enleve, et sorti des marchandises du cordon douanier)
merite une reflexion approfondie, ainsi qu'un soutien eventuel plus accru pour le Bureau de la
Valeur charg6 de cette mission. La mission a pris note qu'aucune etude recente n'a e  realisee sur



6
I'ampleur de la fraude douaniere, et que, par consequent, a la connaissance des services des
douanes, il n'existe aucune estimation credible de ce type de fraude. Afin d'avoir une idee du
manque a gagner budgetaire, la mission suggere de proceder a une evaluation de la fraude
douaniere.
29.    Le logiciel SYDAM est operationnel. Cependant, il semblerait que les possibilit6s
d'utilisation informatique variees permises par le logiciel pourraient etre mises encore plus a profit
par les services des douanes, notamment en ce qui conceme I'apurement automatique des
manifestes. Les services des douanes ont fait remarquer dans ce sens qu'une formation accrue des
services des douanes pourrait s'averer utile. Parmi les possibilit&s qui pourraient etre explorees
pour acc6lerer plus encore les procedures de dedouanement, la mission a note que SYDAM
pourrait egalement inclure une minuterie qui repercuterait automatiquement a un niveau
hierarchique superieur les dossiers notes comme etant complets -- c.a.d. avec les pieces
justificatives necessaires mais qui seraient restes en attente au-dela d'un delai a determiner.
30.    Des informations contradictoires lui ayant e  communiquees, la mission souhaite verifier
ou infirmer l'adhesion de la Cote d'lvoire au code antidumping du GATT comme cela avait &te
prevu dans la matrice de politique sectorielle du Gouvernement.
31.    Environnement muridique et administratif. La mission a constate qu'un certain nombre de
reformes prevues dans le contexte du PASCO pour cette composante semblent ne pas avoir ete
realis&es. La mission en referera avec le Departement juridique de la Banque Mondiale afin
d'obtenir leur appreciation. La mission souhaite egalement recevoir des autorites ivoiriennes un
etat des lieux exhaustif des reformes juridiques accomplies a ce jour.
32.    Promotion des Investissements. Durant la visite de la mission en Cote d'lvoire, le CEPICI
a ete inaugure et a entame un debut d'activites. La mission s'est entretenue avec les responsables
du CEPICI, ainsi qu'avec les representants du secteur prive sur les procedures de creation
d'entreprise. La mission a note que, malgre les recents efforts de simplification, avec seize etapes
identifiees, ces procedures restent lourdes. La mission a note que les delais necessaires A
l'accomplissement des formalites sont percus par le secteur prive comme etant prohibitifs et, dans
certains cas, demeurent une incitation a l'informalite.
33.    La mission a e  informee de la creation d'une Comnmission Nationale de la Promotion de
l'Investissement. Le secteur prive n'y est pas represente de facon adequate. Un nombre de places
revenant au secteur prive (50% des sieges existant) sont occupees par des representants des
entreprises parapubliques, limitant ainsi la part de presence effective du secteur prive pur A 25% de
la representation totale. La mission estine que cette proportion devrait etre accrue de facon a
concorder avec l'esprit du PASCO.
34.    Le Code des Investissements a ete adopte en Conseil des Ministres, et a ete soumis A
1'Assemblee Nationale pour vote.
IV.    AUDIT DES COMPTES
1.     Conformement aux correspondances envoyees A l'Emprunteur, la mission tient A souligner
la necessite pour la Banque Mondiale de recevoir les rapports d'audit des comptes speciaux dans
les delais impartis par les accords passes avec l'Emprunteur. D'importants retards ont ete accuses
pour les deux audits requs par la Banque. De plus, les accords prevoyaient des audits annuels, et
non pas des audits pour chaque tranche.



7
V.    CONFIMATION DE LVAIDE-MEMOI
1.    Les conclusions et suggestions de la mission feront l'objet d'une confirmation officielle a
son retour au siege de la Banque Mondiale.
Abidjan, le 16 mars 1995
Jamil Zouaoui
Chef de Mission                                 Pour l'Emprunteur
Division AF4TF, Banque Mondiale                 Abidjan, Republique de C6te d'Ivoire
AF4
k\AIDEMEM.DOC
April 27, 1995 17:59






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
COMPETITIVENESS AND REGULATORY
REFORM ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(LOAN 3429-IVC, CREDIT 2324-IVC, CREDIT 2324-1-IVC)
APPENDIX B:
OBSERVATIONS OF THE BORROWER ON TIE ICR






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
COMPETITIVENESS AND REGULATORY
REFORM ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(LOAN 3429-IVC, CREDIT 2324-IVC, CREDIT 2324-1-IVC)
OBSERVATIONS OF THE BORROWER ON THE ICR
The Borrower submitted its commnents to the Association on June 27, 1995. These
observations follow unmodified.






CRItDIT D'AJUSTEMENT SECTORIEL POUR
LA COMPETITIVITIt ET REFORME DU CADRE
Rt:GLEMENTAIRE - (PRET 3429 - IVC, CRI-DIT
2324 - IVC, CRr=DIT 2324 - 1 - IVC).
o---O O-0--
OBSERVATION SUR LE RAPPORT
DE FIN D'EXItCUTION tLABOFRE
PAR LA BANQUE MONDIALE
Le rapport d'evaluation tel que 61abor6 par la Banque est globalement
satisfaisant. Toutefois, ce rapport appelle quelques observations de notre
part.
1OBJECTIFS ni PROGRAMME
I -  La condition 3a) de d6boursement de la deuxieme tranche de
l'accord de cr6dit stipule que mun plan d'action (devralt) 6tre adopt6
pour dtendre Is champ d'applicatlon de Is taxe our Is velour
ajout6e (TVA) aux prodults d'exportation agricoles, forestlors et
halleutiques".
Le Gouvernement a 6tendu la TVA A la banane, a l'ananas et aux
plantes et fleurs parce que l'etude de faisabilite a mis en 6vidence que seuls
ces prodults agricoles exon6r6s 6taient export6s en quantit suffisante. De ce
fait, la conditionnalite d'assajettismement des produits agricoles d'exportation,
dtait satisfalte. Le Gouvernement resle dispos6 & r66valuer la situation
d'assujettlssement pour de nouveaux produits qui feraient l'objet d'une
exportation cons6quente.
Concernant l'extension de la TVA au secteur des transports, I'6tude de
faisabilit6 a montr6 que ce secteur est mal cernb at les risques de fraude sont
61ev6s en raison de la faible capacitl administrative du pays. Aussl, des
6tudes complementaires sont n6cessaires pour une prise de d6clsion
judicieuse. Cette mesure pourra etre examin6e & nouveau dans le cadre de
l'op6ration d'ajustemenl du secteur des transports.
2 -  Le nouveau code des Investissements a 6t6 effectivement
pr6sent6 A I'Assembi6e Nationale , et a fait l'objet de 2 s6ances de travail en
Commission en Mai 1995. II devrait etre adopte avant la fin de la pr6sente
cesslon parlementaire.



2
2 - RIALISATION DES OBJECTIFS DU PROGRAMME
3 - L'annexe fiscale A la Lol de Finances 1995, qui institue la
d6ductibilitd de la TVA sur les vdhicules poids lourd, a 6te publiee dans le
Journal officiel de la R6publique de Cote d'lvoire du Jeudi 9 f6vrier 1995. En
cons6quence, cette mesure est entree en application.
4 - Le code des investissements satisfait au crit6re de neutraItH
puisque, pour des investissements eligibles au meme types de regime
(d6claration ou agr6ment), il n'opere pas de distinction. Cependant,
conform6ment aux pratiques observ6es dans plusleurs autres pays (lies
Maurice, Tunisie, Maroc,....), le 'montant investi a et6 pris en compte pour
distinguer les deux regimes ci-dessus mentionnes. Outre les avantages
fiscaux octroyes par le regime de la declaration auquel sont eligibles les
petites entreprises (investissomonts dc moins de 500 millions de F.CFA ou 1
million de dollars), celles-ci b6neficient des mesures de droits commun
adoptees en faveur de l'investissement. Notamment, les droits de porte ont
6t6 ramen6s au droit unique de 10%, et la TVA est d6sormals totalement
r6cup6rable sur les investissements productifs . En outre, le Gouvernement a
adopte le ler Fevrier 1995 un programme national d'appui au d6veloppement
des petites et moyennes entreprises (P.M.E.) comportant 3 volets:
- la creation d'un compte de refinancement des credits bancaires
d6nomm6 Compte de Mobilisation de l'Entreprise (CDME);
- la creation d'une soci&t6 de droit commercial de type particulier
d'appui technique des P.M.E.;
- la creation d'un fonds de garantie.
La soci6t4 de service a e  creee en Juin 1995, et les recherches de
financement se poursuivent pour la mise en oeuvre des deux autres volets de
ce programme.
3 - EXI2CUTl1N   DVl,   PROGRAMME  ET  PRINCIPAUX
EACTEUBRQ-UI V    IITEUUNE INFLUENCE SUR SA MISE EN
QU~E
5 - La Cote d'lvoire est un pays & economie lib6rale, qui a bas6 son
d6veloppement sur l'entreprenariat priv6 depuls son accession A
l'ind6pendance. En consequence, le secteur prive a toujours Wte un
partenaire pour les pouvoirs publics, A I'egard duquel le Gouvernement n'a
jamais 6prouv6 de 'profonde meflance'comme mentionne dans le document,
des concertations frequentes ont lieu avec ces operateurs 6conomiques,
notamment dans le cadre du comit6 de liaison secteur prive secteur public.
Ainsl, au moment de la mise en oeuvre de r6formes structurelles profondes
telles que cellos ex6cutees dans le cadre du PASCO, des 6changes de vues
profonds ont eu lieu entre les deux parties, notamment au moment de la
pr6paration des mesures de d6mant6lement des barri6res non tarifaires.



3
6 - L'exemple du fabricant local d'outils agricoles dvoqu6 dans le
rapport pour illustrer " la r6ticence manifestee par certains segments du
secteur prv6 " face aux r6formes est un cas lsold qui pose la question de
l'approche mdthodologique A adopter lorsque le d6mantblement des
barribres non tarifaires se fait en l'absence de touts protection tarifaire. En
effet, les outils agricoles ont et6 defiscalises en 1991, exposant i'industrie
locale & une concurrence excessive, notamment du fait que cette derniere
acquitte des drolts et taxes sur ses intrants Import6s et acquis localement.
C'est dans ce cadre que doit etre comprise la mesure adoptee concernant
cette entreprise. II s'agissait de retablir les conditions d'une protection
ad6quate pour un op6rateur donn6.
7 - La coordination des op6rations de diff6rentes administrations
publiques A vocatlon financilre etait en effet une mesure pr6vue dans le
cadre du programme, notamment pour des raisons d'etficaclt6 de
l'Administration et pour un all6gement des procedures auxquelles sont
soumis les operateurs 6conomiques. II s'agissait d'une entreprise de grande
envergure, qui suppose au prealable une organisation parfaite et l'information
de ces structures. Or, pendant l'ex6cution du Programme, plusieurs d'entre
elles 6talent en cours de rborganisation interne dans le cadre de
l'amelioration de recouvrement des impots et taxes et du suivi de l'ex6cution
budg6talre.
8 - Los reformes du marche du travail ont b6n6fici6 d'une bonne
volont manifeste des pouvoirs publics, puisque toutes les mesures
pr4vues ont et6 mises en oeuvre, aussi bien celles relevant du Code de
Travail que celles relevant de la Convention Collective Interprofessionnelle.
La cr6ation de l'Agence d'ttudes et de Promotion de l'Emploi (AGEPE) est
une d6cislon autonome, qui resulte de l'analyse des moyens de promotion et
de gestlon l'emploi dans le nouveau contexte de liberalisation du marche du
travail.
5- BILAN DES ACTION.$ DE LA BANQUE
9 - L'assertlon selon laquelle " I'Association a poursulvi ses activites
de mani6re extrAmomont satistalsante" dGvrait btrG nuancee. En offot, la miso
en oeuvre de certaines mesures a enregistr6 des lenteurs du fait des
reticences et h6sitations des representants de l'Associatlon, qui d'ailleurs
pr6sentaient parfois des points de vues divergents au cours des discussions.
6 - BILAN DES ACTIONS DE L'EMPRUNTEUR
10 - II n'est pas exact de dire que "I'attitude de l'emprunteur 6tait
mitlg6e pendant I'execution du PASCO". Les retards dans la mise en oeuvre
de certaines mesures tels que l'adoption du Code de Travail s'expliquent
essentlellement par le caract6re difficile de la mesure, et la n6cessit6
d'effectuer une large concertalion avec les diff6rents partenaires sociaux. En
outre, le programme pr6voyailt que les mesures ayant une incidence



4
financibre pour le Gouvernement seraient appliqu6es sous la contrainte
budg4taire qui etait tres forte avant la devaluation du F.CFA. Enfin, plusleurs
mesures n6cessltalent des 6tudes pr6alables pour lesquelles I'Assoclatlon
n'avait pas pr6vu de financement, et qua la DCGTx ne pouvait A elle seule
ex6cuter dans des delais tres brefs. Ces raisons expliquent pour I'essentiel
les retards enregistr6es au niveau du Gouvernement.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
COMPETITIVENESS AND REGULATORY
REFORM ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(LOAN 3429-IVC, CREDIT 2324-IVC. CREDIT 2324-1-IVC)
APPENDIX C:
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO TME ICR






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
COMPETITIVENESS AND REGULATORY
REFORM ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(LOAN 3429-IVC. CREDIT 2324-IVC, CREDIT 2324-1-IVC)
SUMMARY OF BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
1.    The Borrower has submitted an advanced draft of its contribution to the ICR. The final
version of this document will be circulated upon receipt. The Borrower's preliminary observations
are summanzed below.
2.    Measures relative to the VAT. VAT arrears incurred by 30/09/91 were
securitized up to half their face value, though financial constraints made this difficult.
Arrears incurred after October 1, 1992, were also securitized, but can be used solely as
credits against amounts owed to pay for customs. VAT neutrality and performances were
improved partially as the VAT was extended to certain products but not all. The "Buffer
Rule" which does not permit VAT reimbursements beyond VAT amounts charged to
clients was attenuated but not eliminated. The VAT rates structure was simplified to two
rates. VAT exonerations were eliminated for milk, cotton and cotton products, electronic
media disks, and commercial transport bags. The VAT was also extended to services like
water, electricity, and telecommunications.
3.    Interior Taxation. The ASDI (presumptive tax) was extended to imports in order
to reach the informal sector. The real property tax structure was simplified and
consolidated into a two rate system. The Patente was not reformed because of the
complexity of the tax and the expected budgetary impact of its removal.
4.    Rationalization of Investment Incentives. A first study evaluated the cost of the
concessions offered under the previous investment promotion structure at approximately
CFA franc 6.5 billions. This investment promotion scheme generated considerable
distortions with respect to the enterprises operating without them. Therefore a draft
investment code was prepared, which emphasizes automatic and generally available
benefits. While awaiting its adoption, some measures were included in the tax code and
the customs tariff. The Council of Ministers has adopted the investment code in January
1995, and was to submit it to Parliament. Concessional arrangements providing incentives
to establish new companies are no longer to be granted by the Government.
5.    Customs Reforms. Customs tariffs were simplified. In addition to the statistical
levy, and the VAT, there is now a single customs duty of 5%, and a fiscal duty featuring
six rates. This reform was implemented progressively due to its expected budgetary cost.
With respect to improving customs procedures, two principal measures were
implemented. The port of Abidjan now has only one customs office instead of two. This
office handles both imports and exports procedures. The ability to use accelerated
procedures involving simplified declarations was extended only to a few selected transit



2
commissioners ("transitaires"), and cannot be used for certain categories of products like
textiles.
6.    Export Promotion. Export licenses were eliminated in 1992. The export subsidy
was eliminated after the January 12, 1994 devaluation of the CFA franc. Export subsidy
arrears were also securitized. The customs code created a drawback system, but it is not
effective because the administration could not find a simple system to reimburse pre-
payments. The temporary admission system was improved in 1991 with the reduction of
the guaranty amount, the diversification of the methods of guaranty allowed, and
authorizing customs commissioners to post bonds for their clients. A liaison committee
between the private and the public sectors was set up to study ways to improve and
simplify external commerce procedures. For authorized operators, accelerated customs
clearance procedures were instituted. The customs clearance software, SYDAM, now
permits the effectuation of computerized customs clearance procedures in the Abidjan
Airport and in the offices of Vridi-Petrole. Maritime transports were partially liberalized
for bananas and pineapples exporters. A study was completed by SIMPOFRANCE, the
French national committee for the facilitation of commerce, to find ways to simplify
international commerce procedures and the standardization of commercial documents and
forms relating to exports in Cote d'Ivoire. A law mandating importers to purchase Ivorian
insurance resulted in forcing many importers to double insure their shipments. The law is
being revised to do away with this requirement. The professions of customs
commissioners and brokers are presently regulated by application of decree 90-663.
7.    Labor Environment. Employer contributions were eliminated for Ivorian
employees, and reduced for expatriate workers. The OMOCI's monopoly was abolished.
The restrictions on temporary workers were lifted. Economic layoffs are no longer
restricted, and the Labor Ministry's authorization is no longer necessary prior for
employee overtime. The Labor code was revised and voted by the National Assembly. It
is more liberal than the preceding one.
8.    Promotion of Internal and External Competition. Concurrently with the
PASCO's inception, a law was adopted to promote competition and minimize price
regulations. Its application decree liberalized all products except 22 named on a negative
list. The law created a Competition Commission, whose attributions are fixed by decree.
With respect to external competition, import notices are no longer required for liberalized
products; for restricted products figuring on lists A of the application decree, an
authorization must be secured; and for products appearing on list B, non-tariff barriers
(NTBs)were erected. These NTBs are being dismantled and there should be none
remaining for list B products by January 1, 1996. A number of measures were
implemented to fight against under-invoicing and dumping. First SYDAM's results are
shared with other administrations, and the Office responsible for establishing reference
values was reinforced. Second, collaboration with other countries' customs
administrations was reinforced. However, the Government did not find it useful to adhere
to the GATT's anti-dumping code because it set up other systems to curb dumping.



3
Third, shipment pre-inspection centers were created in San-Pedro and Bouake. Finally, all
protectionist reference values were eliminated
9.    Legal Reforms. The reforms planned under this heading were integrated into
other projects undertaken by the Government.
10.   Investment Promotion. A one-stop window was created to assist investors with
the establishment of new ventures. Finally, the Liaison Committee between the private
and the public sector is responsible for studying and recommending ways to simplify the
procedures for enterprise creation.
11.   Conclusion. The reforms that were listed in the Program's policy matrix were
essentially put into place, even if this was done belatedly on occasion. This may be
explained by the length of certain preparatory studies, the heavy schedules of some
consultants, the heavy budgetary cost of some measures, and the degradation of the
macroeconomic environment midcourse into the program. Notwithstanding these
obstacles, one can affirm that the PASCO attained its objectives, meaning the
improvement of competitiveness of the regulatory framework of the business
environment, as evidenced by some important reforms. However, the Government is
conscious that more reforms will be needed to achieve even greater competitiveness .






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE DlIVOIRE
COMPETITIVENESS AND REGULATORY
REFORM ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(LOAN 3429-IVC. CREDIT 2324-IVC, CREDIT 2324-1-IVC)
APPENDIX D:
GOVERNMENT POLICY MATRIX






0~~~~~~~~
I
H
81
*  * *     *   *
O      H
(*40)      0)U






REW DIC Or CoT DIZVOZZ
CONPZTXTZVZNZSS AND RIGRLATOAt  RroIt  ADjUST)ZNT PROCrM
OiJIc    ES  | R        |                                                                  T_"Y  ACIONS  |AGENCY  |N =s
I= ION- .--ATeN9
1.1 Domie Tax Suu
Sped up         1.1.1.    Sette VAT  Tun texpotten u ot *09/30/91.         MEFP         Loi de Finances
aye  of                   hollws:                                                       1992
VAT cndk to
expotr                    a) by saleen  by compestion with tx anran u
of 12131190, whm pouble; *ad
b) by using fou negoiable payma ordn In be
amosizad over fur yeam (a qute eac ye)
1.1.2.    Acelemted setlmnt of exporer, VAT cr_h          MEFP         loi de F_ane
emned aftw 10101191, with maxmum dly of the                   1m
mont.
Raview of dh system or VAT  imnbumant to         ME"         JuneSeptmber
____               export.                                                      1993
Pie  aa the     1.13.    Extension of VAT by option to include a* cubl
VAT to                    expors, wood poducts. fish, and tauuport of
enhnc  mmrchanie
ndmaty ad
a) Fessibity and impat sudis;                    MPP          Jue 192
____________              b) Adoption of an acton plan.                                  Setu 1992    2d  t
1.1.4.    Eiujon of VAT doductibiliy to 61iblc pewui    mm5             Lois de F
pmducb tt 5.0* to 100*. To be don ovo a"                      19 to 19ff
yam, srd      MM                                             Jn19
1.5       Extens1ion of VAT dductilky to hmvy bcd
vohicb (ovw 3.5 to"s b - ;g wih)
9) Fioilpity NW impaa  tudi ;                    MEF}         June IM
b) Implamentmion.                                MIF          Lai de Finare
_        1993 
1.1.6.    Elimination of bufwr tAul  (retictions on Uw uigIt    MEFp
of deducdon) in prductive sctors:
Loi de Fn
- in the cae of induil investment;                            1m
- in te cs of marginally procesed rw  1|mata;                 June 1M
a) Fayaby mwd.                                               Loi de Finae
b) Imphmmntadon.                                             im



_eoe m          1.        Vus maurm  to iuprov ua  sped up                 MIF           1992
sVoe7                     rejgistation of customs and tx deClarationS; -sjed
up the rnfm   of du    and VW , inluding VAT
and other tx    withheld at soc
Reduce a        2.1.      Abolition of all export licee and of export txe  M F          Deceber 1991
NW M-ff                   and duties except those which are np.ded toPteowt             and Loi de
brmw o the                the environment, saaguar the nAton's culkul                   FunnceO 1992
minimum                   heriap or to substue fr the lack of esffcive
taxation of pwducen' incomes.
U~poat          2.2.      Payment of export prenium srs as of 09/30/91     TrWur7       1m
subsidim                  by mean of 4 negotiable paymen orden,
uanteed, and to be amortizd over 4 yor,
_  sAing in 1992.
2.3.      Carrm over th 1991 budgt povsion Ir paym   of                Lai de Franes
export premium to the 1992 budgt.                             Im
2.4.      Adjustm  of th rae of the export premim to                   Lai de Fin-an
keep wthin the  m  of the budget a defined in                1m
perL. 2.3.
2.5.      Revision of th expoit premium to tk io a__out   MIFF         Se er 1992    20d  me
th  hlev  of compeivity of the eonmy and of the
firms.                                                                .
* Imnplementon.                                             Loi de Fines
2.6.      Effetve application of the drawbck systm hr     DOD          Ma    1992
those exporters   t using S th   mpory enry
(admission tanpormis) or 'exporttion pr*sbIe-
: ____________             system .
2.7.      Improv the opation of the custom  suspension     DOD          Im
system (admisdon tmpoaire) byr
* a gradual reducton in dh   amount of gupate
requind;
- diversifcation of the gpane Mehanim
banker's garantee, COaeraI ieo);
- mlc applcaton of the eligbility criterha.
2.8.     Lp       e  of etral trades and tranpot
2.8.1.    Mesur  to be appUed immedely:                    Misc.        Decembr 1991
a) madat th privt seor/pubLi u ctor lison
eommiee to study ways of simpli4ing een
tade procdu  as a mamr of priorky;
b) elimindon of notices of iet t  impot
(wintnAo    d'mportation') except br beith or
publi ordir resouns;
a) ccratd proeing throgb custom  of goods
for pre4pproved , rms.



Rdma 11e sum_ or VAT rmu *t  a maxmm of .
a)   abily and impac study;                     MpEF         June 1992
b) Adopton of an paconp                         MEFP p5a.w 1992   20d t__acb
.l.S.    Ma  VAT rm  on imports And local usnsacoNm        MEu            J y  19
thesune.                              ,                       ._
1.1.9.    Substio VAT for te TPS except tor banidng                   Lot de Funace
_ _  u .          __199
Redumc  e       1.1.10.   Areeme  on a                                                 De eb of Soods 9or which  MEe     1 9b91
numbr of VAT              exemptions will be abolis   in the 1M  Loi de
uGMption                  Fauwne (dairy prod)
111 Studytoassessthe appropraessof abolhi            -            Suberl9IM
fxmtin  or a second Hag of goods widl = ie  to
pouble inclusion in the 199 Loi de Pncz _
Reduce          1112 jtabishms  ofatrxsnw              hich aowe
distoreloae               impmved rd  st  ud infom l  r
b   _                     throush:
dilhrent
buwam                     a) extending the ASDI to inported goods excpt or    MEFP      Lol de Finan
_lpd                        Soods iuported       tempoury a my                          1992
syaMa; am
b) refohrm of real esand *pszen  tRis.          MU?          Loe de Fane
1.1.13.   Evalution of the budgtay cost of the spcil tex  MEI"         July 1992
i________                  regime in the Tax Code ad the Invesm      Code.
1.1.14.   Cenus of aul the advuang  in tem  of protection  MIFF        July 1992
and competition enjoyed by busise opating
under priority status and speci   conveions.
1.1.15.   Raonalization of investmet inzeives.
a) Study;                                       MIEF         July 1992
b) Adoption of an action pln.                   ME"          Septeber 199      2d ranebe
Custom taiff    1.2.1.    Prspaation of a new customs tuiff Wring into     MEFI         Spmbr 1992    2nd traie
eform                       couthe lvel of compet pvens of the eonomy
and of he frnm, u well as the budpgt constrints
of the Governent, and including:
a) 2 dute (customs duty nd fiscl duty), not
inluding td  statistical vy, compentory lvie,
domesels  san tA  resuling hom
bmidcnl ooenos;
b)   Mas maximum hi the sad duty.
1.2.2.    Implsme.mdcn of ew customs tarft.               MEFF         Loi de Fneu
1993



21.2.    PIaahibit  sdls hr the sond phin NW                             3 mber 1992
fml1i_  of an ation phLo
A) hiher developmn of SYDAM to .aw
aawmat  clearance of shpping docmm
( -maieaa)  and th aijomadc ;suinS of re)u
cetficat  and liquidation vouchm  n ceaUi
cases;
b) pal libmlizaon of conaca br th shipping
of b anaz d puieapb br 1992-1993 c4a11a
a) rplce   eet cica  of expost and the cestiie
of hruig  echanp commitment (e.pgme  de
chngp) by  siungle docuuun.
d) standardization of cammenil documents;
e)  enStheng ithelinks btwen the Diecti
G ndnle de Douae (DGD) a*d ohr  nnial
institutions and sevice (Trauy, DOAM, DOI
and BCEAO);
n uemew of egulations peainins to ins
of impoitt manctious;
g) sintosement of gula   relating to customs
____________           clkamarane aguits and broken._____________ ______
B_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ._ .....
Rsdue do uni   3.1.        Reduction in the em yer's contnbuton on th        ME"          L  de Phom|
labor cmt                   alA   of Ivoun staff ftm 41i to 235  in th Loi                1992 And La das
de Fin    1M  and its eliiain in de Loi de                     Flnaocee 192
Fiunane 1992._
Inase te         3.2.      EBlminati  of spei  rigidities of the labor makL
eliq of
the labor
3.2.1.    Eliminan Of OMOCIs monopolT
a) Review by the Council of Mihister;                          November 1991
b) Submission to National Asmbly;                              Dcmbe 1991
c) Implmentation.                                              Dooe br1991 
3.2.2    Elimination of constrins on dw hring of torary
or cuual labor, and on collective lay.ob:
- Revision of th annex to the Coldve A   e.                    Deember 1991         ei
3.23.    Eimintion of te requirmen of obtining prior
ad    __dmin v  audorldocs br overmur
- Ais   ,inistdiseL                                            Decmbe 1991



' 3.      bImpretheoperac,of the Labormasw           Ask
revisio  of te Labw Code and thru h anotraging
the vrou puat to rego. the CoUutV6
Apeommwc
a) agemn oan tun  of tace fr the sdy;                          Dembe1991
b) presntton of study meuke;                                   lwd 1992
c) prpuadon of a drft Labor Codeo and opo of                   Se     bw 1992    2nd bombs
an action plan; ad
____________        ~~d) imnplementtion.                                             1992
Piam             4.1.1.    Adoption of a law wchich prmomos isuaI             MUIC
demeede                    competiton and miknimzs p   rke  uletic            NWEF
This law wMl provis for arorw4he.board
hlbealizdoa of doamstic price. except. initially. hbr
a fnazmum of 25 products, maily, basic hodebAth,
essntal uftilte (wate. electricity, ame.). school
bools and phumnacauticala.
a) rev iew of the dmaft legislation by Council of
Minister;
b) submissio of draft legislaton to Naica.al    )Desmbwr 1991                        w
Assembly;                                                     -
a) preparation of implemienting documentation; and 
d) effectivenes of new legislation.                             msYebi
1992__                         _
4.1.2.    Set up an autonomous Commission on Competition     DGAX.        TO gmt
rsponsible hor monitoring and advising on all issue            operatuio lmor
involving competition and retictive practice                   Marclk 1992.
(including practice by he Usate) and for maMiag                mme gmt ame
recmmedatonsto Government.                                 "gms on doe
aCoesmlus s          .m
be mede
available in the
second half of
_    ____            ___          ____            _    ___        1992
4.2.1.    Emuginton of imp*  iwhu    notfication (intton     MtIFF         9                 2nd bAM
d'impoztto) and of prior author_zationspt hor
heal or public orde r ns           t.
rua  te          4.22       Progressive elimination of quaunitave restions    MEF loSod
effeovu and other non (wiT barrir on impots.
products and
4.2.2.1.   Agreement on a              blt of goods whose  OEFF           Decmsbe11          Efdumees
be libealized before January 1, 1991t             _________
4.2.2.2    Areument on an indicar ve lst of produt sto be M) FF           Deoember 1991    Ei"vQsI4
covered by a ibealimzation dero at Cood trancbe



4.223.  Cuay out a sdy prping the dinmnding of th
aboveeatiod non-triff banien:
a) Prea  terms of rfernce;                  .omCb  1991
b) PmmtAtion of sudy mults.                                  July 1992
4.2.2.4.  Adoption of a decree eliminating a substantial pont of  MEPP                  2nd anco
the quantitative restrictions and non-tatiff bani.                            _  _
4.2.2.5.  Adoption of a time schedule for the dismanding.  MEFP                         2nd trah
over a peiod of three yea  at most, of the
quantitative restrictions and other non-tai barrie
applied to the producs not included in the dem
mentioned ui pargrph 4.2.2.4.; excepto  to be
limited to: (i) resictions justih d by heah or publc
orr raons; and Cu) a shot lisa stablished in
agemenat with the Bank.
4.2.3.    Msesum to imprve control over customs vanluon    DGD          9m
and to combat under-invoicing and dumping
a) Strengthening the technical capacity of the
customs services responsible for a .o.riari
control;
b) Optimal use of the possibilii  offered by
SYDAM;
c) StrengLhening collaborative link with the custom 
aenciS of other countrie in the famework of                                                   I
reciprocel adminiutive usisc;
d) Adhrence to the GATT anti-dumping code;
e) Evaluation of the procedur  of pro-inpecdon,
and adoption of an action plan.
4.2.4.    Decentralization of the issuing of impors pie-  Mbe          9m
shipment inspedon reques.
4.25.    Eliminton of rferene pces esablished for                      1992              2nd
protection purposes.
4.2.6.    Revision, aftr evaluation, of the role, compoition.          1m
and procedunes of th ComitA Consukatif de Is
Valeur.                                                      _ _  _  _ _  _
S ;:JIDIAL A ND-ADMI N STRATiE' ENVIMONMENTts -M                                                         ____
Simplihcado     5.1.       Creation of commrcial couts and defnition of ott-            Impl
nd elaication             of-coast procedure for arbitrion. simplifiaton of             fm  Jnuas7 1.
of the                    eisting legal procedurs and reduction of th                   1992
adminiss ve               re ation he for debt recovery suits.
*n judicial
fwewr



.2        RvNe COuP.y Law --Candtblisi a Code of
C.mm
, Pupr.ey awie1992
'vkmen w                                                 i NJarny 1993
b) EAblik a Code of Commi_m
- ImpZa lunuary 1994
aa04phathe   5.          Law reguadag thie aoountin profusion.                        199
-omf  and
audlthAg of               - Impbhmawion.
5.4.     Study, prepauato. and puaS into sute of now
aoooung nan noW A :
a) Prepeia of sudy tin of rhrsos                            D_embes 1991
b) Can7ying out of dw th dy;                                 1992
) Falzationd  ppli of t   aional                             199
_____________         as ceountiag    pla ._                          _ __ _ _   _ __ _  _ _  _
________PROMOTION*                                                                                  
Piop.odu of     6.1.      Set up a 'one-MP      wd        a view to        MIC          1992
invosimutiahrmingand uuiadAS InVGuua in thei dm&iag
Wth th admiiws  iviom     .
6.2.      SianpUbstlon of the prosidom  hr creating a     MIC
sonipany and in makdag hvoutmm.
62.1.    Man     dw privae uemc/pubL;o mr Maiso.                       De.eur 1991
Comaim  to dy "ys of sinpli*ing the
pifedue    mig up a compnypandW br Maki"
_                   ~~~ ~~~~invewn..
6.2.2.    Raliatio of t1 sdy:
a) Propaao of ts   of tbr ;                                  Mch 1992
b) Presndo. of mrua ;                                        S     bs 1M992
c) Pr_puatio and adopton of an ation pla.                    1992



:



:tv









p . I      t a  K:
I*      Ie         ::..I!:



