Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3429 IVC
(Competitiveness and Regulatory
Reform Adjustment Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 23, 1991
LOAN NUMBER 3429 IVC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 23, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated November 26, 1991, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower's industrial sector (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently needed imports and 
services required during such execution;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Development Association 
(the Association) to provide additional financial assistance toward the financing of 
the imports and
services required during the execution of the Program and by an agreement of even date 
herewith between the Borrower and the Association (the Development Credit Agreement), 
the Association is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to 
eighteen million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,500,000) (the 
Page  2
Credit);
(C)
the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practicable, that the 
proceeds of the Credit be disbursed on account of urgently needed imports required 
during the execution of the
Program before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in this 
Agreement are made; and
(D)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed 
out of the 
proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Loan Agreement.";
(b)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably  request, on the execution of the Program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, 
the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan.";
(c)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
 
(d)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the Development 
Credit Agreement have, for purposes of said Agreements, the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"CAA" means Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement, a financial public 
institution of the Borrower;
(b)
"Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith 
between the Borrower and the Association for the Project, as such agreement may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as 
applied to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement;
(c)
"SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
343 (1986); and
(d)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
Page  3
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of seventy-five million dollars 
($75,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purpose of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in CAA on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1993 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on the 
Page  4
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on June 
15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) The President of CAA is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under 
the provisions of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
(b)
Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower hereby 
entrusts CAA with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications under 
the Loan and for the collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished to 
the Bank in support of such applications; such withdrawal applications shall to the 
extent practicable be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts 
of not less than $700,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound 
accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year, audited in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
Page  5
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Events of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is not consistent with 
the objectives of the Program.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events, satisfactory to the Bank, are specified as 
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Development 
Credit Agreement shall have been fulfilled, other than those related to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement;
(b)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent 
with the objectives of the Program;
(c)
the Borrower's draft Law on promotion of competition and reduction of 
price regulations has been adopted by the Council of Ministers and submitted to the 
National Assembly;
(d)
all necessary arrangements have been made and are in effect, for: (i) the 
elimination of the monopoly of the Borrower's Public Employment Agency regarding 
hiring; (ii) the elimination of prior administrative authorizations for workers' 
overtime; (iii) the elimination of the obligation to have occasional or daily workers 
in a permanent status after a 90-day period of continuous or intermittent employment; 
and (iv) the elimination of the obligation to obtain the authorization from the 
Borrower's Ministry of Labor prior to labor force reduction motivated by economic 
reasons; and
(e)
a list of products which will no longer be subject to quantitative 
restrictions and non-tariff barriers as of January 1, 1992, and an indicative list to 
be finalized through the issue of the decree referred to under paragraph 2 (c) of 
Page  6
Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been furnished to the Bank.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. If the Development Credit Agreement terminates prior to the 
termination of this Agreement, the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement 
referred to in this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect between the 
Borrower and the Bank.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the 
Minister responsible for finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre Delegue auprcs du Premier Ministre
Charge de l'Economie, des Finances
   et du Plan
B.P. V-125
Abidjan
Cote d'Ivoire
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINFIN
23747 MINFIN
Abidjan
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
By /s/ Charles Gomis
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  7
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Francis Colaco
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account for expenditures made (or, 
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such 
proceeds.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
   Group           Subgroup       Description of Items
   112                --          Alcoholic beverages
   121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                  refuse
   122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                  or not containing tobacco
                                  substitutes)
   525                --          Radioactive and associated
                                  materials
   667                --          Pearls, precious and semi-
                                  precious stones, unworked or
                                  worked
   718             718.7          Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                  thereof, fuel elements
                                  (cartridges), non-irradiated for
                                  nuclear reactors
   Group           Subgroup       Description of Items
   728             728.43         Tobacco processing machinery
   897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                  platinum group metals (except
                                  watches and watch cases) and
                                  goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                  wares (including set gems)
   971                --          Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                  gold ores and concentrates)
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of the Borrower, excluding, if the currency of the 
Borrower is also that of another
country, expenditures in such currency for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of such other country;
Page  8
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$15,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures before that 
date but after the date falling four months prior to the date of this Agreement; 
(d)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $10,000 
equivalent;
(e)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank shall have financed 
or agreed to finance; and
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or 
for luxury consumption. 
3.
Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of goods 
estimated to cost less than $500,000 may be permitted by the Bank upon the basis of 
statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify.
4.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have 
reached the equivalent of $25,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an 
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program; (b) that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement have been taken and are satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) that the 
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the objectives of 
the Program.
5.
If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4 above, the Bank shall 
have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not 
satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have 
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, by 
notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
 
June 15, 1997                              
1,370,000
December 15, 1997                          
1,420,000
June 15, 1998                              
1,475,000
December 15, 1998                          
1,530,000
June 15, 1999                              
1,590,000
December 15, 1999                          
1,655,000
June 15, 2000                              
1,715,000
December 15, 2000                          
1,785,000
June 15, 2001                              
1,850,000
December 15, 2001                          
1,925,000
June 15, 2002                              
2,000,000
December 15, 2002                          
2,075,000
June 15, 2003                              
2,155,000
December 15, 2003                          
2,240,000
June 15, 2004                              
2,325,000
December 15, 2004                          
2,415,000
June 15, 2005                              
2,510,000
December 15, 2005                          
2,605,000
June 15, 2006                              
2,705,000
December 15, 2006                          
2,810,000
June 15, 2007                              
2,920,000
December 15, 2007                          
3,035,000
June 15, 2008                              
3,150,000
Page  9
December 15, 2008                          
3,270,000
June 15, 2009                              
3,400,000
December 15, 2009                          
3,530,000
June 15, 2010                              
3,665,000
December 15, 2010                          
3,810,000
June 15, 2011                              
3,955,000
December 15, 2011                          
4,110,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the Loan on the  day of 
prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                        
0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                        
0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                          
0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                       
0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                       
0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                        
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through international competitive bidding in 
accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the 
Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
(a)
Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a timely manner of the 
opportunity 
to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply for 
Page  10
inclusion in a bidder's 
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid; 
such advertisements should be 
placed in at least one newspaper of general 
circulation in the Borrower's country and, in  addition, in at least one of the 
following forms:
(i)
a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Forum, 
Business Edition; 
or
 
(ii)
an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal 
of wide 
international circulation; or
 
(iii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in 
the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the 
goods required."
(b)
The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
 
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the bidder to 
state the bid 
price in a single currency widely used in international trade and 
specified in the bidding 
documents."
 
(c)
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
 
(d)
Goods shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by a 
third-party inspection firm.
2.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less 
than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:
(a)
by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public procurement 
procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of such procedures, provided 
that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the Bank; and
(b)
by other purchasers, in accordance with established commercial practice, 
provided that such contracts shall be awarded on the basis of evaluation comparison of 
quotations obtained from suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct 
contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank may be used where considered appropriate 
under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
3.
Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded commodities may be 
procured through organized international commodity markets or other channels of 
competitive procurement
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the first 
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, 
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective 
bids and recommendations for award, a description of the advertising and tendering 
procedures followed and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special 
Account, such copies together with the other information required to be furnished to 
the Bank pursuant to this paragraph shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the 
evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
5.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this 
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank 
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect 
thereof, such documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to 
support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract. Where payments under a 
contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special Account, the documentation 
and the information to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to the provisions of this 
paragraph shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence required under 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
6.
The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule shall not apply to 
contracts on  account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
Page  11
basis of statements of
expenditure.
SCHEDULE 4
Conditions for the Release of the Second
Tranche of the Loan
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.
The export subsidy system has been revised to take into account the level of 
competitiveness of the economy and enterprises.
2.
The following measures to liberalize imports and reduce non-tariff barriers have 
been taken:
(a)
elimination of import reference prices of a protective nature;
 
(b)
elimination of declaration of intent to import and a priori 
authorizations, except for public order or health reasons; 
(c)
issuance of a decree for substantial reduction of import prohibitions and 
licenses; and
(d)
adoption of a timetable for the lifting, during a period not exceeding 
three years of all import prohibitions and licenses not included in the decree 
referred to under paragraph 2 (c) above, except for those justified on public order or 
health grounds, and a short list agreed upon with the Bank.
3.
An action plan has been adopted for: (a) extension of the Value Added Tax (VAT) 
to all export products in the agriculture, forestry and fisheries sectors and to 
transport of goods; and (b) reduction of the number of VAT rates to a maximum of 
three. 
4.
A plan for the rationalization of investment incentives, including a first set 
of draft implementation measures, has been adopted.
5.
A new customs tariff has been prepared and its effective date has been set. This 
tariff takes into account the level of competitiveness of the economy and enterprises, 
and budgetary constraints, and includes: (a) two levies, (customs duty and fiscal 
duty) excluding fees for services, compensatory levies, taxes resulting from 
international agreements and internal taxes; and (b) a maximum of six rates for the 
fiscal duty.
6.
An action plan to reduce labor market rigidities through the labor code reform 
has been adopted.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required during the execution of the Program and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
Page  12
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account in the 
respective equivalent amounts as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, less the amount of any 
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
30,000,000 i.e. twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
Page  13
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
