D_mmit Of
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
vC8.- .fi> f- /r
Report No. 6010-MA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAYSIA
PORT KELANG PROJECT
March 31, 1986
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Ringgit (M$)
US$1,0  M$ 2.45
M$ 1   = US$0.41
(as of December 1985)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ASEAN      -   Association of Soutn East Asian Nations
DWT        -   Deadweight Ton
ESCAP      -   Economic and Social Council for Asia and Pacific
EPU        -   Economic Planning Unit
FIMA       -   Food Industries of Malaysia
FMP        -   Fourth Malaysian Plan
COM        -   Government of Malaysia
GRT        -   Gross Registered Ton
HICOM      -   Heavy Industries Corporation of Malaysia
ICB        -   International Competitive Bidding
JKR        -   Ministry of Public Works
LCB        -   Local Competitive Bidding
LLM        -   Malaysian Highway Authority
LNC        -   Liquified Natural Gas
LPK        -   Kelang Port Authority
MR         -   Malayan Railways
MISC       -   Malaysian International Shipping Corporation
MTR        -   Mid Term Review
PERNAS     -   Perbadanan Nasional Bhd.
PETRONAS   -   National Petroleum Company
PORTMIS    -   Port Management Information System
PNSL           Perbadanan Nasional Shipping Line
RO-RO      -   Roll on-roll off
TEU        -   Twenty-foot equivalent Unit
(the common unit used in indicating the capacity of a container
ship or terminal)



FOR OMCIUL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
PORT KELANG PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .............................
A.  Economic Setting.........                                     1
B.  The Transport System ....................... }
C.  Transport Administration, Planning and Investment..           4
D.  Sectoral issues and Bank Strategyr.ate            gy...........  5
E.  Previous Bank-Financed Projectso......                       6
II.    PORTS SUBSECTOR
A .  Ge era1                             .. a..                   7
B.  Organization.. n.**&..o......      ...     ............       7
C.  The Borrowerr .......9
III.    THE PROJECT
A.  Project Origin and Objectives..ectiv..#..*....*.    12
B.  Project Desc r i p ti..o. .n...o... ..... ...  ... .ooo    13
C.  Cost Estimates....... .......                 .....*...    17
D.  Financing       Pln19
E.  Execution of the Project ...........................    19
F.  Procurement.*****....*** ............................       20
Cw. Disbursements..                                             21
H. Monitoring...*...                                            22
I.  Environmental Impact                                        22
IV.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION
As  Generale*r...l......                               ....     23
B.  Traffic Projections...........                              23
C.  Project Benefits.. n         ef.i t..s..                    25
D.  Project Costs  ................ ..... .............    26
E.  Economic Return and Senstivity Analysis.#.**.-..*..         26
This report is based or the findings of a Bank mission which visited Malaysit
in July 1985. The mission was composed of Messrs. M. Le Blanc (Economist),
E. Frankel (Engineer) and L. Morrell (Financial Analyst).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
V.    FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A.  Introduction .............................                26
B.  Past Financial Perforwance....................,....    27
C.  Present Financial Position.....................* *...    30
D.  Improvements in Accounting Systems......... .             30
E.  Cost Recovery and Profitabilitya..............            31
F.  Budgets and Aid                     i      t     s        32
G.  Future Financial Performance.................             32
H.  Senstiiti...i..a..i t y**                                 34
VI.    AGREEMENTS iO BE REACHED ANDI RECONMENDATIONS..........       34
ANNEXES
1 -  Assumptions in Preparing Financial Forecasts...............    36
2 -  Actual and Forecast Income Statements*.*,**,.*..*..........    39
3 -  Project Implementation Schedule .................     ......      42
TABLES
1 -  Project Cost Table........................................    43
2 -  Technical Assistance Budget................................    44
3 -  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements........................       45
4 -  Traffic Forecasts*.**........              . ...         .......    46
5 -  IRR and Sensitivity Analysis............................. ,    50
6 -  Selected Documents Available in the Project File ...........    52
CHARTS
I -  Port Kelang Organization Chart****.,.......................    53
MAP
1 -  IBRD No. 19350        Port Kelang Layout



MALAYSIA
PORT KELANG PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrowers:         Kelang Port Authority (LPK)
Government of Malaysia
Guarantor:         Malaysia
Amount:            US$18.80 million of which US$16.70 million to the Kelang
Port Authority and US$2.1 million to the Government.
Terms:             Pepayable in 15 years, including three years grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:    This will be the Bank's third involvement in the port
subsector and the first in Peninsular (West) Malaysia. The
proposed project will support the Kelang Port Authority's
objectives of increasing port capacity, improving its
operations and efficiency and further develop its technical
and managerial capabilities. The project consists of
(a) construction of a 265 meter general cargo/container
berth, paving of the back-up area, and provision of addi-
tional bulk liquid breasting dolphins; (b) construction of a
marine base consisting of a 256 meter jetty and a 1,800 m
administration building; (c) 122 man-months of technical
assistance to strengthen LPK's training program, its
marketing department and its management information systems;
and (d) a pilot railway component to assist MR in the
handling of containers. The construction of the general
cargo/container berth, the jetty and the administration
building are similar to much larger and successfully
completed projects implemented by LPK; therefore the risks
related to project implementation and operation are
negligible. The location of the new works is within the
existing port boundaries and, as such, land acquisition does
not pose any problems.



- iv -
Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreign   Total
-  US$ Million
A.  Civil works
Berth 15                    8.12        8.45    16.57
Back up area                 1,40       1.46      2.86
Oil berth                    0.30       0.31      0.61
Marine base                  1.55       1.60      3.15
Subtotal               11.37       11.82    23.19
Engineering surveys and
investigations            0.27        0.18      0.45
B.  Technical assistance and
training                  0.26        0.50      0.76
C.  Railway pilot                0.78        1.77     2.55
D.  Equipment                    0.34        0.25     0.59
Base estimate:              13.02      14.52    27.54
Contingencies
,Physical                    1.30       1.45      2.75
Price                        1.79       2.83      4.62
Total financing
required:                16.11       18.80    34.91 /a
Financing Plan:
Port Kelang                     15.19         -      15.19
Government                       0.92         -       0.92
Bank                              -         18.80    18.80
Total:                      16.11      18.80    34.91
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY          1987     1988       1989       1990
-----------u-ss I000)
Annual          3,300   10,000      5,000        500
Cumulative      3,300   13,300    18,300    18,800
Rate of Return: 32% (Port component)
Map: IBRD No. 19350
/a Total cost, net of taxes and duties, US$31.6 million.



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
1.01      The Federation of Malaysia comprises 13 states in two separate
geographical areas of Southeast Asia. Eleven states are on the Malay
Peninsula (West Malaysia comprising 51,000 square miles) and two on the
northeastern part of Borneo (East Malaysia comprising 77,000 square miles),
some 400 miles to the east across the South China Sea. Malaysia has land
borders with Thailand to the north on the peninsula and with tndonesia to the
south on Borneo. It is separated by a narrow sea channel from the island
State of Singapore at the southern tip of the peninsula. Of the total popula-
tion of 15.5 million, 12.8 million live in West Malaysia and 2.7 million in
East Malaysia; average population growth is 2.3% p.a. Topography in both West
and East Malaysia is generally rugged, making internal transport often
difficult and costly.
1.02      A central mountain chain divides West Malaysia into the west coast
region and the east coast region. Protected by the mountains against severe
monsoons and bordering on one of the world's most important shipping routes
(the Straits of Malacca), the west coast has developed faster than the rest of
the country. Two thirds of the population live there and work either in the
main urban centers where industrial zones have developed or in the important
agricultural and mining areas, which produce among other things, rubber, palm
oil and tin for export. The states on the east coast and in East Malaysia are
less populated and less developed, producing mainly oil, gas, timber, palm oil
and fisheries.
B. The Transport System
Roads
1.03      During the period from 1970 to 1984, the number of motor vehicles in
Malaysia grew by 15% per annum, from 747,C00 to 4.1 million. This resulted in
an increase in the overall vehicle/population ratio from 72 per thousand in
1970 to 242 per thousand by 1984. This motorization rate is the highest among
the ASEAN nations. As motorcycles account for 60% of the fleet in Peninsular
Malaysia, a shift from motorcyles towards cars is expected as further
increases in income occur. To accommodate the substantial related increases
in traffic, the Government undertook to expand the road network. During the
period 1979 to 1984, the length of the road network grew by 18% per annum for
the country as a whole from 20,824 km in 1979, to 40,435 km in 1984.
1.04      In Peninsular Malaysia, 80% of the roads are paved and the network
there connects most towns, villages and cities. By contrast, only 25% to 30%
of the roads in Sabah and Sarawak are paved, and gaps still exist in the
network such that all parts are not fully connected, mainly reflecting low
population densities and difficult terrain. The distribution of road per
thousand square miles in each state shows considerable differences between the
relatively developed and the relatively backward states, the highest mileage
being in Penang, while the lowest is in Sarawak.



-2-
i.05      Genetadly, the roads in Peninsular Malaysia are in good condition
btut many of its main highways are overdesigned and costiy.  One of the most
pressing problems is the capacity constraint on sections of Route 1 (North-
Sourh) or, the 7iest coast. The Government is addressing this issue by con-
Qtructing a toil expressway. Hovever, because of budgetary cofnstraints, the
.'mple.on cA  this road will stretch into the 19909.  In Sabah and Sarawak
fever roads e.re paved thus many are in poor condition, and are often impass-
able d-iring the raiL-y season.  Much more effort will have to be concentrated
in both states to irmiprove the qUality of the network and strengthen the
mfalnkerant;- funct-ion.
~ I
0" Oro  The Malayan Railway (MR) consists of a meter gauge mair line running
norc;h from Singapore and separating into two lines, one running up the s st
cuas'. ind the other traversing the peninsula towards the northeast.  Both
lines dre linked to the Thailand Railway system. The condition of the track
as generalLy good, except for some stretches where heavier rails are needed to
replacp the existing 60 pound rails. The MR has embarked on a rail
Xeplacemenc program and is also undertaking bridge restoration works.
¢X),      Cuirrently, the MR has a fleet of 138 diesel locomotives: 90 are
op-rat- ig on the main line; and the remainder are used for shunting. In
idditio,n, it has a fleet of 361 passenger cars and 4,100 freight wagons. The
numoer of freight wagons has declined by about 25% since 1973 while the number
of pznssenger cars has remained static during the same period.
l..QB     Traffic on the MR reflects the pattern of economic activity in
9'enan3uIar Malaysia, with the western line carrying the bulk of the volume.
T'ie eas!i c.ast Line otl the other hand, does not carry sufficient traffic to
cower iLs operating costs. During the past decade, services in terms of
:,ssenger and freight volumes have stagnated, although, overall, the economy
',-ew by about 8% per annum.  Further, the volume of freight carried by the
railw'ay dec'ined from 3.6 million tons in 1980 to 3.1 million tons in 1986, as
i:o.d transport expanded and improved. In addition, road transport is quicker
and providep better frequency of ser"vice thEX the railways.  The MR has not
zee~'tu cak to adapt to containerization and other measures to improve
operit:ng efti-i.ency znd therefore continues to lose traffic.
1.09      .arawak has no railways.  The Sabah State Railway (96 miles) runs
from Ko.t- Kinabalu southward to Beaufort and turns into the Crocker Range to
rer~cn 3anom. This w-as the first all-weather land transport facility to be
i L.e t 'ne taLe, but in recen. years road transport has been competing and
aitey  traft'c has decreased frnm 93,000 tons in 1975 to 51,000 tons in
i980. Passengei traffic increased from 775,000 journeys in 1975 to Just over
i milli3n sn 1980 and currently contributes about Lwo-thirds uf the railway
reveynues0  The GoverLment phased out railway passenger service between Kota
t:in-.Talu and Beaufort as of March 1, 1983. However, railway service provides
the of..v allweathet access from Beaufort to the logging areas around Tenom.
'Ihi:: s;-(i.d ccntinue because rhe difficuLt terrain between the Pegalan Valley
ar.< tLhe west coast maies a good road connection extremely expensive.



-3-
Ports
1.10      Malaysia has a total of 55 major and secondary ports distributed as
follows:  Peninsular Malaysia 25, Sabah 17, and Sarawak 13.  In Peniinsular
Malaysia, most ports are under federal jurisdiction except for jetties
operated by the district offices of individual states. 'The major ports of
Kelang, Penang and Johore are controlled by statutory authorities. in con-
trast, management of ports in Sabah anl Sarawak is delegated to the Marine
Departments of the respective State governments and severat stattetory
bodies. The Sabah Port Authority manages Kota Kinabalu and all ports excc.-t
Labuan. In Sarawak, Kuching has its own port authority and alt portS, oui the
Rajang River are controlled by the Rajang Port Authority.
1.11      Most of Malaysia's import-export trade is transported by sea.  The
growth of the economy in the 1970s resulted in a 140% increase in tthe number
of ships calling at Peninsular MaLaysia ports, from 11,073 in 1970 to 12.L4')
in 1983. Port throughput increased at more than 9% per annum during the
1970s, and in 1983 was on the order of 42 million tons, of which 28 million
tons, or two-thirds, were handled in Peninsular Malaysid. Penang and Kelang
are the two largest ports in Malaysia, having handled 5.5 million and 8.8
million tons, respectively, in 1984.  The ports of Sabah and Sarawak together
handle slightly less than 35% of the total port traffic, i.he bulk of th.s
being timber for export. No overall traffic growth has taken place since
1979, but a restructuring of traffic patterns towards the larger ports has
occurred.
Aviation
1.12      As with the ports, Malaysia's air transport infrastructure is
relatively well developed with 42 airports and 12 rural airstrips. Of these.
five are international class airports capable of accommodating wide-bodied
aircraft; three are in Peninsular Malaysia and one each in Sabah and
Sarawak. The remaining facilities cater mainly to domestic flights, operated
by the largely government-owned Malaysian Airline System, which has a fleet of
35 aircraft.
1.13      During the 1970s, travel by air in Malaysia increased by about  ±0%
per annum. During the same period, cargo traffic in'reased by about 18% per
annum to about 47,000 tons in 1983. Kuala Lumpur, the most active aitport in
the country, handled some 3.4 million passengers in 1983; Kota Kinabait and
Kuching followed with 1.2 and 0.8 million passengers respectively. Ten cthei
airports handled between 0.4 and 0.1 million passengers, with mnany sriaiLiet'
airfields handling lower volumes.  The Civil Aviation Department in Per.nsu; s.r
Malaysia is now treated as an autonomous agency, while those in Sabah ana
Saravak obtain administrative grants from the Federal Government.



-4-
C. Transport Administration, Planning and Investment
1.14      Responsibility for administration of the transport sector is
dispersed among a number of ministrics and agencies at both the Federal and
state levels. Tht. Ministry of Transport is responsible for all matters
relating to ports, railways and aviation, although the Malayan Railway,
Malaysian Airline System and the major port authorities operate with consider-
able autonomy. The Ministry of Public Works (JKR), which includes the
Malaysian Highway Authority (LLM), is responsible for the planning, design,
construction and maintenance of the Federal road system. The state govern-
ments. responsible for 60% of the country's total network, independently plan
and execute their owi road investments, often resulting in situations where
simultaneous shortages of capacity in one mode and surpluses in other modes of
transport exist in certain corridors. The Ministry of Public Enterprises is
responsible for road transport regulation as far as licensing is concerned;
the Ministry of Forestry regulates sizes and weights of timber trucks while
the Federal Police is responsible for enforcement of traffic and safety
mattets relating to road transport. A number of autonomous ports are involved
in multi-modal operations that require coordination with road and rail
transport; this is often difficult under the present arrangement.
1.15      Transpart planning under such a dispersed acministrative structure
is diffictrlt at best. As a result, the Economic Planning Unit (EPU) in the
Prime Minister's Department has taken on the role of reviewing all Federal
Government investments and, in the case of transport, coordinating among
modes. However, as the transport sector has grown more complex, the EPU has
not been able to keep up with the demands imposed on it due to the lack of
adeqtwate numbers of suitably qualified specialists (e.g., to evaluate techni-
cal eesign standards, engineering feasibilities, etc.). The Bank has
initiated a sector dialogue with the Government to focus the planning and
coordinating role within a line ministry, preferably the Ministry of Trans-
port. The National Ports Study, financed under the Sabah-Sarawak Road Project
(Loan 2291-MA) and expected to get underway shortly, will address this issue
as it relates to maritime transport. A comprehensive National Transport
Review was carried out in 1968 with some updating done in 1978. The
Government has now decided to commission, by 1988, a further new comprehensive
review of land transport to focus on the road-rail intermodal issues and
examine in depth the role of the Ministry of Transport as it pertains to over-
all planning and coordination in the sector, with a view to relieving the EPU
of the more operational aspects of the transport planning and coordination
function.
1.16      Transport investments by the Federal Government have recently
averaged some 18% of its development expenditures. The Government has had
some difficulty in controlling expenditures once projects have gotten under
way. In the Mid-Term-Review (MTR) of its 1981-85 Fourth Development Plan, the
Government was obliged to provide additional allocations to complete
contracted works started earlier, as more than the full original allocations
for the five-year period had been spent.



- 5 -
PUBLIC INVESTMENTS IN TRANSPORT
FOURTH MALAYSIA PLAN
(M$, million)
MTR           Revised
Original       1981-83       1984-85           1984-85
1981-85       expended      allocation        estimate
Total                   4,116          4,996          1,934            2,700
Roads                   2,467          2,882            983            1,792
Mass transit                -              2              8               23
Railways                  300            361            207              199
Ports                     660          1,046            394              396
Marine service             76             31             13                8
Civil aviation            612            674            320              284
1.17      As shown above, the road and port subsectors together have received
about 80% of the public investment funds allocated to transport in the Fourth
Malaysia Plan (FMP). Mass transit, railways, marine services and civil
aviation shared the remaining 20%. Roads aline received about 60% of the
investment funds in the FMP reflecting the increasing importance of road
transport both for internal transport and as a link to Malaysia's port system
for the movement of imports and exports. Included in the FMP was more than
M$220 million for expansion at Port Kelang to handle the increasing traffic
there, reflecting its importance as the premier port of Malaysia.
D. Sectoral Issues and Bank Strategy
1.18      Two recent informal sectoral reviews 1-  carried out by the Bank in
Malaysia identified the major issues affecting the transport sector in general
and the maritime sector in particular. The major issue affecting the sector
is the weak management due to the fragmented organization of the decision mak-
ing authority. There are several ministries, agencies and operating entities
involved in dealing with transport matters and no comprehensive transport
policy to link them. As a result there is onlv weak intermodal coordination
in the planning of investments, resulting in inefficiencies in the system,
duplication of effort and often selection of technical solutions which are not
always the most cost effective.
1.19      In the maritime sector, the issues identified relate in part to the
Government objectives of fostering greater use of Malaysian ports and
Malaysian flag vessels in the carriage of trade. However, about 30X of
1/   Public Expenditures in the Transport Sector - November 1984
Maritime Sector Review - June 1985



- 6 -
Malaysia's external trade is channeled through Singapore, and the Government
is working to redirect this traffic through Malaysian Ports. There is some
doubt that this solution would be the most economic solution to the importers
and exporters of Malaysia.
1.^0      As with the sector as a whole, another issue in the maritime sector
relates to the management of the subsector and the relationships between
major, minor and specialized ports. The major port authorities compete among
themselves, which is likely to lead to the provision of excess capacity.
Other ports are administered or. an ad hoc basis with no overall plan.
1.21      The other major issue relates to the use of national flag vessels
for the carriage of Malaysian cargo. The Government has recently become
alarmed at the ouvflow in the current account of foreign exchange for shipping
charges and is anxious to expand the role of the Malaysian International
Shipping Corporation (MISC) and Perbadanan Nasional Bhd (PERNAS). However,
the capital investment required w 'l be great, and the purchase off-shore of
necessary vessels will also require substantial foreign exchange.
1.22      The strategy of Bank lending for ports is to: (a) increase the
capacity of infrastructure where needed and justified; (b) develop an institu-
tional framework capable of dealing more effectively with the organization,
management and planning for ports; and (c) improve project preparation and
implementation capacity. Using the Port Kelang project, the Bank aims at
assisting the development of a more efficient port capable of planning its
operations in order to maximize the use of existing facilities, and optimize
the timing of future developments and expansions.
E. Previous Bank-Financed Projects
1.23      The proposed project would be the ninth Bank-financed transportation
project in Malaysia and the first in the ports subsector in Peninsular
Malaysia. Two port projects in Sabah have been successfully completed. The
Project Performance Audit Report (No. 2785 dated December 28, 1979) for the
First Sabah Ports Project found that despite a cost overrun and long implemen-
tation delays, the project assisted the Borrower in improving its financial
position and strengthening its management, in addition to providing the
planned physical infrastructure. The reestimated rate of return at the com-
pletion of the project showed an improvement over the appraisal estimate. The
Project Completion Report for the Second Sabah Pcrt Project (May 1, 1985)
noted that because of considerable delays in completion and cost overruns the
reestimated rate of return, while still acceptable, was about half of the
appraisal estimate.



- 7 -
II. PORTS SUBSECTOR
A. General
2.01      Maritime trade and ports policy is of particular importance to
Malaysia. The monetary value of international trade amounts to a significiant
share of the economy; in 1983, imports and exports amounted to 85% of GNP. In
addition, Malaysia's geography and concerns for national integration and the
strengthening of economic and social ties between Peninsular and East Malaysia
accentuate the importance of this policy. Malaysia's 8% p.a. CDP growth
through the 1970's and the rapidly expanding public and quasi-public sector
inveetment programs which continued through much of the Fourth Malaysia Plan
(1981-1985) period were accompanied by a high rate of growth in imports.
Capital intensive investment with a high foreign component, large volumes of
project cargoes and a parallel increase in consumer imports placed a heavy
burden on the country's ports.
B. Organization
(i). Major Ports
2.02      For purposes of administration, Malaysian national ports are
classified as major and minor. Major ports have been established as statutory
bodies and are operated as semi-autonomous port authorities with a board as
the controlling body and a management unit responsible for the day-to-day
operations of each port. Representatives of the Treasury, the Economic
Planning unit and the Ministry of Transport sit on each board which is
required to approve annual budgets and expenditures over M$100,000. Financial
statements are submitted to the Government through the Ministry of Trans-
port. The Ministry appoints port authority executives and board members and
approves tariffs and bylaws put forward by the Authorities.
2.03      The ports in Sarawak and in Sabah are under State Ministry
supervision. In Sabah, the seven most important ports are administered by the
Sabah Port Authority which is under the aegis of the Sabah State Ministry of
Works and Public Utilities. In Sarawak, the State Ministry of Communications
and Works is responsible for three Authorities which encompass all the major
ports of the State.
(ii) Operations
2.04      Port authorities are responsible for the day to day administration
of the lands and waters within their working areas including approaches and
anchorages gazett2d under the Merchant Shipping Ordinance. Their duties gen-
erally include provision of pilots and towage service, control of vessel move-
ments within port areas, cargo handling and collection of port charges, and
the maintenance and implementation of capital projects.
2.05      Financial responsibilities and objectives of Malaysian port authori-
ties are laid out in the Port Authorities Act of 1963. Port revenues are
expected to cover operating and overhead expense and service debt incurred in
capital improvement programs. It has generally been the policy that each port



-8-
authority should be financially self-sufficient and operate without subsidy.
However, grants and soft loans are given by the Government for new or develop-
ing ports.
(iii) Peninsular Malaysia Minor Ports
2.06      Minor ports in Peninsular Malaysia consist of public and private
jetties which are generally under the responsibility of the Marine Department
of the Federal Ministry of Transport. Under the Merchant Shipping Ordinance
of 1952, the Federal Port Rules of 1953 and subsequent Port Rules and Amend-
ments to these Acts, the Minister is empowered to declare certain areas as
ports, designate channels and port limits and assign regulatory responsibi-
lities to Ministry Port Officers. By virtue of this, the Marine Department is
assumed to be responsible for any port area, wharf, jetty or anchorage where a
Port Authority does not hold jurisdiction. While the concept of minor ports
is to facilitate local trading and coastal traffic in Malaysian waters, no
clear policy on control, management or administration has yet evolved.
2.07      Maintenance and improvement budgets for minor wharves are generally
the responsibility of the Marine Department with the Ministry of Public Works
acting in certain cases as the implementing agency. Repairs and new invest-
ments appear to be carried out on an ad hoc basis, sometimes as the product of
state or local interest pressures.
(iv) National Ports Study
2.08      The rapid growth in the demand for port facilities has led the
Covernment to undertake a National Ports Study, with financing under Loan
2291-MA, to formulate a systematic and coordinated port development plan and
expansion strategy and improve the operation and management of existing ports.
This strategy -u'1t serve three major objectives: (a) to provide investment
planning for cargo throughput and handling requirements for the next 20 years;
(b) to avoid duplication and under-utilization of port facilities; and (c) to
fit in with the overall Government development policy of building up an effi-
cient infrastructure system linking the regions of the country into one
integrated economic unit.
2.09      The study is to assess the role of major and minor ports and related
marine and land transport systems to meet the internal distribution and
foreign trade requirements of the economy. Consideration will be given to the
appropriate policy, financing and administrative structure required for major
and minor ports and the funds required to carry out future port development.
The study will also assess the capacity of individual port authorities to fund
their own improvements, entailing an examination of tariff and user charge
structures, Lax policies and revenue surplus generating capacity. The study
is expected to be completed by December 1987. Until the study is completed,
the Government agreed at negotiations to consult with the Bank prior to making
investments in new port developments of more than M$10 million.



-9-
C. The Borrower
(i) Facilities
2.10      The Kelang Port Authority (LPK) handles the largest share of the
country's cargo tonnage. Located 40 kilometers west of the caoital of Kuala
Lumpur, the port serves the major concentration of industrial and commercial
activity area of the country centered in the Kelang Valley. The Port Kelang
complex consists of the older South Port and the more recently established
North Port where the container terminal is located.
2.11      North Port occupies an area of 248 hectares with 17 berths, six
transit sheds and 19 godowns. Containers are handled at berths 8, 9 and 10;
berths 11-14 are general cargo berths handling mainly import cargo with bulk
sugar handled at berth 12. Since 1980, LPK has invested M$221 million at the
North Port to construct berths 16-25. Berths 16-21 handle break-bulk cargo
but are constructed to handle container traffic in the future. Liquid bulk
commodities are handled at the dolphin berths 22 and 23 and dry bulk at berths
24 and 25. The dry bulk terminal has 13.2 hectares of land, mainly for fer-
tilizer, animal feed and salt. The liquid bulk terminal has 19 hectares of
land to handle vegetable oils, chemicals and petroleum products. FIMA (Food
Industries of Malaysia) leases 14 hectares outside the port fenced area for a
vegetable oil and chemical tank farm. The National Petroleum Company
(Petronas) is constructing a petroleum terminal on 8.1 hectares to the north
of the site with an eventual storage capacity of 300,000 barrels.
2.12      The container berths 9 and 10 each have a length of 320 meters and a
draught alongside of 13.4 meters to accommodate third generation container
vessels. Berth 8, with a length of 213 meters, is in shallower water with a
depth of 10.9 meters and is equipped with container crane rails but also
serves as a ro-ro berth. Behind the berth is a 24.2 hectare container stack-
ing yard with a theoretical stacking capacity of 10,800 TEU's. Container
handiing equipment includes four 35-ton quay cranes, trailers And tractors for
moving containers from the wharf to the yard and straddle carriers for handl-
ing containers within the yard.
2.13      South Port occupies an area of 48 hectares with four ocean and three
coastal berths and eight godowns. About 18 hectares are available for general
cargo; the rest is leased out for liquid bulk storage, wheat silos and other
warehousing. Liquid bulk storage provides for 210,000 tons of liquid products
including vegetable oil, latex, petroleum and chemicals.
(ii) Operations
2.14      Port Kelang handled 8.8 million tons in 1984, with imports account-
ing for 5.5 million of this total. As the largest port in Malaysia, Port
Kelar.g accounts for a quarter of the Peninsular Malaysia trade volume. Traf-
fic has grown since 1980 at an average annual rate of 5.5% with import volumes
increasing at 8.4%. This pattern of traffic growth is expected to continue,
with imports continuing to grow faster annually at almost 7% versus exports at
4.52 per year.



- 10 -
2.15      By 1983, Port Kelang handled about 1.2 million tons of cargo in the
East-West Malaysia trade; this amounted to 15% of the port throughput. Of
this, about 9% was containerized. As with international trade, container
traffic to East Malaysia has been the fastest growing cargo component.
2.16      Port Kelang accounts for a large share of the traffic in the Kelang-
Petaling Jaya-Kuala Lumpur corridor, generating 34% of the truck destinations
and 22% of origins within the Kelang turban area. While the port hinterland is
considered to take in Perak to the north, Temerloh and Gemas to the east and
Seremban and Malacca to the South, over half the truck generated trips are
confined to the Kelang Valley-Kuala Lumpur Metropolitan area.
2.17      In 1980, 22% of the conventional cargo through Port Kelang was
containerized; by 1984 this share had increased to 32%. Of those cargos which
lent themselves to containerization, the Authority estimates that 30% were
containerized in 1980, increasing to over 50% by 1984. By 1990, LPK estimates
that 75% of containerizable commodities could move in containers or 40% of all
conventional cargoes.
2.18      In 1984, the container terminal achieved a throughput of 247,000
TEUs. By 1990 the Authority expects this flow to increase to 510,000 TEUs
which would almost reach estimated wharf capacity, based on one additional
crane at the present berths, but exceed the existing terminal area layout
capacity. With the present four cranes and cargo handling system, LPK calcu-
lates present wharf capacity at about 340,000 TEUs per year allowing for
seasonal peaks. LPK believes the terminal could cope with the 350,000 TEUs
per year expected for 1988 by speeding container clearance through the yard
and increasing stacking area and height. Thus expansion of container facili-
ties is necessary by 1988, and the proposed r oject addresses this require-
ment.
2.19      The Port Kelang container terminal is used by 27 shipping
interests. The top six account for almost 60% of the container volume. All
lines cal'ing at Port Kelang are subject to the same tariff structure, terms
arl conditions of terminal use.
2.20      With increasing pressures to imprz,ve efficiency at its major ports,
the Government of Malaysia has been seriously considering involving the pri-
vate sector in selected operations. Because of the critical role it plays in
the external trade of Malaysia, Port Kelang has been chosen to be the first
case. The Government invited bids for private sector operation of its con-
tainer terminal and recently selected an operator. Based on recently com-
pleted negotiations, a separate company was set up in which a private operator
holds 51% and LPK 49% of the equity. The assets consist of all the movable
equipment of the existing terminal but exclude land, wharves and the container
stacking area which were retained by LPK. The terms include a minimum
throughput charge plus supplemental charges for volumes exceeding the base
volume in addition to the initial capital investment for the 51% share by the
private operator.



- 11 -
(iii) Organization, Management and Staffing
2.21      As with other major port authorities in Malaysia, Port Kelang was
established under the Port Authorities Act of 1963. Prior to that date, the
port was administered by the Malayan Railway witi operations dating back to
1901. It was known as Port Swettenham until 1972. The Authority operates
through a board composed of a chairman appointed by the Prime Minister and
nine members appointed by the Minister of Transport. Members of the board
serve for a one year term and are eligible for reappointment.
2.22      The Authority's policies are formulated by three committees whose
members are from the Board: (a) a Service Committee deals with appointments,
promotions and terms of service of senior officers; (b) a Planning Committee
decides on major port development projects; and (c) a Finance Committee deals
with the annual recurrent and capital estimates. In addition, a Port
Consultative Committee consisting of the chairman, the general manager and
other persons as may be appointed by the Minister of Transport has been set up
to advise the Authority. Under the Port Authorities Act, the Authority has to
consult the committee on matters pertaining to major changes in the tariff
rates, major expansion and development plans of the port and any other matters
as may be directed by the Minister of Transport.
2.23      The Chief Executive of the Authority is the general manager who is
assisted by the Assistant General Managers of operations, administration,
planning, staff and finances (Chart 1). The LPK is the largest single employer
in the Kelang urban area with 6,455 employees of which 136 are officers.
Stevedores who are part of the Authority staff number about 3,700. Port-
related industry and service activities are estimated to employ an additional
3,000 workers. Direct and indirect employment generated by the port accounts
for about 10% of the Kelang district labor force.
2.24      The port is well managed and operated, but management, port
professionals, supervisors, technicians and operators require more up-to-date
training and technical assistance to efficiently cope with rapid technological
changes such as increased use of computerized management information systems
and equipment automation and integrated communications. These require real
time decisions, affecting many operations within and outside of the port. In
addition, the port's commercial and management services need strengthening.
Since the port competes with and is constantly compared to one of the world's
most advanced ports, the port of Singapore, it must therefore strive to
continually improve its efficiency and technology to effectively respond to
user demand. For this purpose Port Kelang requires the technical assistance
and training included in this project.
(iv) Training
2.25      The Port Authority's Training Institute, although adequately run,
provides instruction to operating and management personnel in only a limited
number of basic skills. It does not provide training in facility and equip-
ment maintenance, computer use, inventory control, job planning, or cargo
planning. Nor does it provide the various management skills that are required
by a modern port, from information systems use and design to financial and



- 12 -
strategic planning. The Port's training program should provide for continuous
upgrading with changes in the port's technical and operating methods. The
role of the training institute needs to be expanded to give it the capability
of offering courses, programs, facilities and equipment for training in the
areas mentioned above.
(v) Marketing
2.26      Port Kelang has a small commercial department which on a daily basis
is ill-equipped to deal with the competitive pressures thrust upon it by other
regional ports and competing modes of transport. Technical assistance is nee-
ded to help the port achieve better market penetration, visibility and publi-
city; otherwise it risks losing market share. Areas which need special
assistance include data acquisition, advertising, trade and market rela-
tions. As part of its marketing effort, the port needs to be cognizant of the
downstream impact of the hauliers, forwarders and customs operations in order
to identify critical bottlenecks which affect its operations but for which it
does not have direct responsibility. Only then can it prepare an action pro-
gram and seek government and private sector assistance to improve the total
transport services from shipside to final destination and assure that maximum
benefits are derived for Malaysia from containerization.
(vi) Management Information System
2.27      Port Kelang was among the first ports in the region to introduce
PORTMIS, an integrated management information system developed by the Economic
and Social Council for Asia and Pacific (ESCAP). The system has been imple-
mented in the financial areas and partially in the operating areas, but it
remains essentially a manual system which does not provide real time data
output and feedback information for management to properly control opera-
tions. Increasing containerized and bulk cargo traffic will require more real
time port operations management in order to achieve the objectives of the port
in terms of traffic performance levels. Assistance will be required to help
LPK automate this process and will be addressed in the proposed project.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Objectives
3.01      The phenomenal growth of container traffic at Port Kelang in the mid
to late 1970s led the Government to construct new general cargo facilities at
the North Port as existing conventional berths were being converted to
container use. The new berths completed in 1983 were designed to be used
eventually also for the handling of containers. The rapid growth of
containerization led the port to start anticipating, as early as 1977, that
additional container handling facilities -would be required in the mid to late
1980s, thereby reducing the available facilities to handle conventional and
bulk liquid cargoes. Consultants were engaged in 1979 to review the further
expansion at Port Kelang and recommend a new site since it was felt that the
physical limits of the North Port facilities wouild be reached with the



- 13 -
expansion of berths 16 to 25. Several sites were examined in the context of
the long term needs of the port and a site on the island of Lumut (Pulau
Lumut) was selected. Consultants were appointed in 1980 to carry out a
feasibility study of new general cargo and bulk liquid facilities on Pulau
Lumut. Their study, completed in 1981, anticipated that new general cargo
facilities would be required as early as 1986. In the interim, LPK had
acquired the necessary land on Pulau Lumut and undertook the reclamation works
on the site in anticipation of an early approval of the project by the Govern-
ment. However, as a result of the ongoing worldwide recession, the Government
wisely decided to adopt a wait-and-see attitude, and the construction of new
facilities was postponed.
3.02      In the meantime, containerization continued to increase, but to the
detriment of general cargo growth, which declined somewhat. The port revised
its forecasts and further postponed the date at which the new facilities would
be required. In reviewing the productivity indicators at Port Kelang, the
Government became concerned that improvements were slow and that costly
capital improvements were being proposed to increase the throughput. At the
same time, the Government began considering the private operation of the port
or parts of it as a solution to increasing ef£ ciency. The eventual impact of
privatization is not known at this time and the uncertainty of its implica-
tions has led the Government, with the Bank's advice, to delay further the
development of Pulau Lumut in favor of constructing, as a first phase, one
additional berth at the North Port and of making other minor improvements to
maximize the use of existing facilities there. An evaluation of the private
operator's performance should be carried out in about two years to ascertain
the timing of the requirements for the eventual new facilities on Pulau Lumut.
3.03      The proposed project's objective is to accommodate the expected
growth in traffic at Port Kelang into the early 1990s by providing the
Authority with the capacity, technical capability and effectiveness to handle
future traffic efficiently. Although it is strong financially, the Port
Kelang Authority has sought Bank assistance through this project mainly for
institution building objectives, to strengthen and give it the capability to
compete with Singapore. As the shift from conventional to container traffic
accelerates, the Kelang Port Authority wishes to be able to accommodate this
traffic as efficiently as possible, thus enabling it to realize the full bene-
fits of containerization and increased port productivity through faster cargo
handling. In addition, the project will allow the Government to derive
the most benefits from its efforts at privatizating the container terminal and
will assist the Government's desire to redirect transshipment cargo to
Malaysian ports.
B. Project Description
3.04      As the Bank's first lending operation in the port subsector in
Peninsular Malaysia, the proposed project would help establish a dialogue with
the Government on improving the operations at Port Kelang specifically and in
the maritime sector in Malaysia in general. Considerable dialogue has been
established in the preparation of this project and in providing recommenda-
tions to the Government in maritime sector matters for the preparation of the
Fifth Malaysia Plan (1986-1990).



- 14 -
3.05      The project will comprise:
(a) Civil works:
(i)   provision of 265 meters of wharf berth convertible for use
in handling containers or general cargo;
(ii)   construction of a marine base including a 156 meter pier
and berthing facilities for the LPK's tugs and pilot
launches and a marine administration building and
operations tower;
(iii)   breasting dolphins and unloading facilities for the oil
terminal;
(iv)   demolition of existing facilities at berth 15; and
(v)   paving of the backup area behind berths 15 to 18.
(b) Technical Assistance and Training: provision of technical
assistance staff for (i) port training, (ii) port marketing; and
(iii) the management information system, including the provision of
equipment, materials and computer hardware and software;
(c)  Railway Pilot Component:  provision of container handling
facilities, track improvements, signalling and technical assistance
for MR to implement, on a pilot basis, the findings of a recently
completed container handling study.
3.06      The project will consist of the first phase of the future expansion
of facilities at Port Kelang, eventually to be followed by the development of
Pulau Lumut probably in the mid-to-late 1990's. The approach proposed for the
first phase involves construction at the North Port of a convertible
container/general cargo berth of about 265 meters between the existing berths
14 and 16. The space is currently being used as a tug mooring and marine
department facility. Also, an abandoned wood chip facility located there is
no longer of use, thus freeing the space for berth development. The marine
base and tug mooring facility would be relocated to an area at the south end
of the North Port adjacent to berth 8. This will involve the construction of
a jettx measuring about 156m x llm and a marine administration building
(1800m ) at the south end of the North Port. The project would also include
the provision of breasting dolphins to facilitate the berthing of oil tankers
of different sizes and paving of the back of port area behind berths 15 to
18. The general layout of the port and the facilities proposed under the
project are shown in Map No. IBRD 19350.
3.07      The advantage of constructing berth 15 is that it would provide
additional container and/or general cargo capacity by 1989 without any
reduction in general cargo handling capacity during the construction period.
It would, in addition, permit the eventual or phased transfer of container
handling facilities to berths 16 to 21, thereby providing a five berth
container terminal with a more effective layout and access than the current



- 15 -
facility which w2uld then revert to the handling of general cargo.  This
approach has the benefit of delaying the construction of the Pulau Lumut
facilities by about five to eight years, resulting in substantial savings to
the Government and tne Port Authority. Since the site for the proposed future
development on Pulau Lumut is on an island, the delay would allow the neces-
sary road and bridges to be constructed before the port works, thereby adding
to the cost savings, as compared to the original plan that intended for all
civil works to be built simultaneously.
3.08      The success of the proposed port development depends not only on the
physical port works but on developing an efficient inland system of transport-
ing containerq. Currently, only two road hauliers are licensed to carry
containers to and from Port Kelang. Although the railway is not restricted
from handling containers, it is barred from operating trucks and, as such,
cannot provide the door-to-door service needed to compete with road transport,
thereby placing it at a disadvantage in competing for traffic. A study is
being finalized by consultants on the possible role of the Malayan Railway in
the movement of containers in general and in the Port Kelang-Kuala Lumpur
corridor specifically to identify short-term measures to improve the effec-
tiveness of the rail movement of containers, including streamlining regulatory
measures, and identifying the needed equipment, container wagons and track
imprevements required to bring the service to a standard which will allow it
to attract more traffic.
3.09      The port of Kelang has an effective management which must be
upgraded to keep pace with new requirements of %ser demand, management systems
approach, institutional developments, changes in port functions and new
technology. Rapid increase in containerization, impending handling of car
exports, and increased ro-ro, as well as various types of specialized bulk
traffic all pose new and increasingly complex management issues. The port
must respond quick'ly to these changes and develop a dynamic management
approach. The problem is amplified by the increasingly more aggressive
operational. and technological competition by the Port of Singapore and to a
lesser extent by the ports of Penang and Johore.
3.10      In order to fulfill the objectives of strengthening LPK's
institutional frarework and improve its operational efficiency, the project
includes a technical assistance component to improve the port's commercial
effectiveness, upgrade its management services and information system, and
broaden its training program to include instruction at all levels. To achieve
this, a total of 122 man-months of consultant assistance over a three-year
period would be provided in the following areas:
(a)  Training
Technical assistance would be provided to evaluate the training
needs, the design of programs and courses, the procurement of
equipment and teaching materials, the required upgrading of
facilities and construction of buildings, the training of
instructors and trainers and the develcpment of tests, qualifica-
tions and other tools for measuring training performance. The
training assistance will consist of high level management training



- 16 -
by expatriate consultants who will provide two months of courses
every year for a three-year period. In addition, local trainers
will be trained, which will require an additional four man-months.
Management training will be in areas of strategic planning,
financial management and planning, management control, development
planning, personnel management and other functions of management.
Engineering training with a consultant budget of eight man-months
will consist of training in port engineering, equipment selection,
port layout, and facility maintencnce. Operations management
training with a consultant budget of 12 man-months will deal with
traffic management, inventory control, equipment scheduling and
assignment, equipment maintenance and repair, computer control of
operations, operations planning and operation management.
Finally, training in equipment operation and maintenance with a
consultant budget of 36 man-months will deal with the classroom,
simulator and hands-on training of equipment operators, equipment
repairers, mechanics, etc. A total of about US$365,000 of the
training budget of US$900,000 is planned to be spent on training
equipment, books, materials, computers and facilities.
The principal objective is to estabLish a central training facility
which can provide for the training requirements at all levels using
well-trained instructors, effective training materials and equip-
ment, and tested training approaches. The consultants will largely
train trainers and managers to assure that the training institute
can function effectively without further technical assistance after
the three-year period.
(b) Marketing
Techrical assistance would be provided to the Marketing Department
to improve its marketing effort to potential users of its facili-
ties. Experts would be provided to assist in trade and market
relations, advertising and data acquisition. Consulting services
would also be provided to assist the marketing department to carry
out a study to identify and document the bottlenecks which impede
the smooth flow of goods into and out of the port, to prepare an
action program and to make recommendations to the Government on
specific steps which must be taken by it or the private sector to
remove the identified bottlenecks. During negotiations agreement
was reached with LPK to have the study completed by December 31,
1986. The Government will review an action program for implementa-
tion of the study's recommendations with the Bank by June 30,
1987. This component would consist of 16 man-months of consulting
services by experts, visits and internships by senior port marketing
staff with renowned marketing organizations of other ports (10 man-
months) and the introduction of a computerized marketing support
system including data base, proforma generator, etc.



- 17 -
(c) Management Information System
Technical assistance will be provided to LPK for design of the
necessary software, file/data and control systems to automate LPK's
Management Information System. Funds will also be provided to
purchase the necessary hardware, install it, assist in the data
collection and calibrate the system. Ten man-months of consulting
service would be supplied for software development, file construc-
tion, control systems architecture and hardware selection. Systems
installation, testing and training of local staff would be provided
by additional consultants (24 man-months).
Railway Pilot Component
3.11      The proposed project includes about US$3.1 million to assist the
Malayan Railway (MR) to implement on a pilot basis the findings of a just
completed consultant's review of containerization as it affects the railway.
In their report, the consultants have recommended that MR eventually establish
8 inland terminals for the handling of containers. In view of the critical
need to improve the movement of containers between Port Kelang and Kuala
Lumpur, Government opted to test the unit train concept and refine it before
implementing the proposal on a national scale. While a new container terminal
will eventually be required for Kuala Lumpur the pilot project will use the
existing yard at Brickfields, on the outskirts of the city center. Some
improvements such as additional surfacing, signaling, and track alterations
will be required as will be the purchase of two heavy duty front end loaders
equipped to handle containers. Additionally the component includes technical
assistance and training in intermodal operations to assist MR staff to imple-
ment the service. These short term improvements are expected to allow the MR
to increase its handling of containers to and from the port cor.siderably
beyond the current 12%. Government is keen on carrying out this pilot case to
determine its feasibility and help offset the requirement for additional road
capacity in the corridor.
C. Cost Estimates
3.12      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$34.91 million with
a foreign exchange component of US$18.80 million, which would be financed
under the proposed loans. A detailed breakdown of the cost estimates is shown
in Table 1 and a summary is shown below.



- 18 -
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(December 31, 1985 prices)
M$ Million                   US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   Total
A.  Civil Works              27.85     28.95   56.80       11.37    11.82    23.19
B.  Equipment                 0.83      0.61   144         0.34     0.25      0.59
Subtotal            28.68      29.56   58.24      11.71    12.07    23.78
C. Engineering surveys
and investigations    0.65        0.45    1.10       0.27      0.18      0.45
D.  Technical assistance
and training           0.66       1.24    1.90       0.26      0.50      0.76
Subtotal             1.31       1.69    3.00       0.53      0.68      1.21
E.  Railway pilot             1.91      4.34    6.25        0.78      1.77     2.55
Total base cost         31.90      35.59   67.49       13.02    14.52    27.54
Physical contingencies  3.19        3.56    6.75        1.30     1.45      2.75
Price contingencies      4.36       6.94   11.30        1.79     2.83      4.62
Total Financing
Required:             39.45      46.09   85.54      16.11    18.80    34.91
Notes:    1.   The exchange rate:  US$1.00 = M$2.45.
2.   Items C and D were excluded from the calculation of price
contingencies.
3.   Physical contingencies are about 10% of base costs; local and
foreign price contingencies are about 15% of base costs plus
physical contingencies.
3.13      The base cost estimate was computed using December 1985 prices.
Duties and taxes, estimated at US$3.30 million, are included in the base esti-
mate. The base cost reflects current prices for materials and labor, and
prices cited in bids received recently for comparable work. The provision for
contingencies allows for (a) physical variation of 10% in civil works, engin-
eering services and technical assistance and (b) annual price escalation of 5%
for local costs and 7% in 1986, 1987, 7.5% in 1988 and 7.7% in 1989 for
foreign costs. The estimate for the technical assistance program, which
includes training, marketing and management information systems assistance
provides for 122 man-months of specialist services, 10 man-months of overseas



- 19 -
internships and purchase of computer hardware, software development, equipment
and training materials estimaced at about US$600,000 (Table 2). The training
is proposed to be performed by instructors obtained as individuals, in the
various major fields, with high level management instructors to be required
for about 12% of the total training man-months. The remaining instructors
will be specialists in the training of middle level managers, workshop manage-
ment, computer operations, equipment operations, etc.
D. Financing Plans
3.14      For the port loan, the local costs of the project would be met
entirely from LPK's internally generated funds. For the MR loan, the local
costs would be met by the Government. The proposed Bank funding of US$18.8
million would cover che entire foreign exchange component which is 59% of the
estimated project costs, net of taxes and duties.
3.15      A Bank loan of US$16.7 million would be made to LPK with Government
guarantee, for 15 years including three years of grace. A separate loan of
US$2.1 million would be made to the Government on the same terms for implemen-
tation of the railway component with MR as executing agency.
E. Executi,n of the Project
3.16      The LPK will be responsible for implementing the port component of
the proposed project, including finalizing the engineering documents for the
civil works. The Authority's Engineering Department, which is solely respon-
sible for new works is composed of three engineers (including the chief
engineer), four technical engineering assistants (three years of university
level courses) and ten inspectors of works. They have successfully carried
out the design and supervision of berths 1, 2 and 7a in the South Port and
berths 22 and 23 in the North Port and will be responsible under the project
to prepare bid documents, carry out the evaluation of bids and supervise the
contractors carrying out the works. The MR will be responsible for ;Mplemen-
tation of the railway pilot component.
3.17      Project preparation is well advanced.  The design of the 265-meter
long berth No. 15 is complete, as it is an extention of berths No. 16-21 which
follows the same design. Borings along the berth No. 5 line indicate that the
identical berth design is appropriate. As a result drawings and material
quantities for this extension are now available.
3.18      The design of the new marine base small pier and berthing facility
is being performed by the Port Kelang engineering department and is virtually
completed. Similarly the design of the breasting dolphins for the oil
terminal is being performed by the Port Kelang engineering department. The
paving of the back-up area behind berths 15 to 18 is similarly an extension of
paving installed on adjacent areas and, as a result, project preparation
should be completed in terms of engineering and tender preparation by about
April 1986.



- 20 -
F. Procurement
3.19      Procurement for construction of berth 15, the backup area behind
berths 15 to 18 and breasting dolphins for the bulk liquid terminal valued at
about US$25.96 million, would be awarded on the basis of interr.ational com-
petitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Procurement.
Tnese works would be put to tender in two packages:  the first one would
include the demolition of the existing mooring facilities at berth 15, the
construction of the new berth 15 and the breasting dolphins for the bulk
liquid terminal and the second one would comprise the paving of the backup
area behind berths 15 to 18. The facilities associated with the construction
of the marine base, including construction of a new tug and pilot berthing
pier and construction of a marine administration building would be procured in
two lots by local competitive bidding (LCB) which is open to foreign contrac-
tors. The total value of these two separate contracts is estimated at about
US$3.72 million to be procured consecutively. Procurement of computer equip-
ment and software associated with the training, marketing and MIS will be
procured locally. Equipment and materials to be procured for the railway
pilot component will be subject to international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank guidelines. For the railway component a margin of pre-
ference equal to 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of imported goods or the actual
custom duties and import taxes, whichever is less, would be allowed for domes-
tic manufacturers. The key procurement information is summarized below:



- 21 -
PROCUREMENT SUMMARY
(US$ million)
Project elements                  Procurement method              Total
1CB       LCB       Other           Cost
Civil Works
Berth 15                    21.36                               21.36
(10.89)                             (10.89)
Backup area                  3.77                                3.77
(T.92)                              (1.92)
Oil Berth                    0.83                                0.83
(0.42)                              (0.42)
Marine Base                            3.72                      3.72
(1.83)                    (1.83)
Equipment                                          0.74          0.74
(0.31)        (0.31)
Subtotal               25.96      3.72        0.74         30.42
(13.23)    (1. 83)    (0.31)        (15.37)
Engineering Surveys                                0.51          0.51
and Investigations                              (0.37)        (0.37)
Technical Assistance                               0.84          0.84
and Training                                    (0.84)        (0.84)
Railway Pilot                0.92                  2.22          3.14
(0.92)               (1.30)         (2.22)
Total                  26.88      3.72        4.31         34.91
(14.15)    (1.83)      (2.82)       (18.80)
Notes: 1. Amounts shown for each project component include physical and
price contingencies.
2. Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank Loan including a prorated share of unallocated funds.
3.20      Draft documents and contracts for civil works in excess of US$2.5
million and equipment contracts over US$100,000 each will be subject to prior
review by the Bank. The Bank Guidelines will be followed for the procurement
o0 consulting services, and all agreements for such services will be entered
into under terms of reference and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
G. Disbursements
3.21      Although the average implementation period for port projects in East
Asia and Pacific, according to actual disbursement profiles, is about eight to
nine years, the proposed project will most likely be completed in a shorter
period. The project is simple, and LPK is anxious to complete it as quickly



- 22 -
as possible in order to have the required berth --pace to accommodate forecas-
ted traffic. According to LPK's calculations the completion of berth con-
struction, backup area and breasting dolphins is estimated to take 2 years
from the start of the contract, scheduled for early January 1987. Even if
completion were delayed by as much as a year, for whatever reasons, the pro-
posed project could still be completed within three years. The project imple-
mentation schedule shown in Annex 3 reflects completion of the proposed proj-
ect within three years, i.e., by June 1989. As the project implementation
will likely be completed by June 1989, December 31, 1989, would be the closing
date for the proposed Bank loan.
3.22      Table 3 gives a schedule of the estimated disbursements of the
loan. Disoursement would be at the rate of: (a) 47% of total expenditures
for civil works and buildings; and (b) 100% of total expenditures for
consuLting services, technical assistance, training, fellowships and computer
equipment. For the railway component, disbursements would be at the rate
of: (i) 34% of total expenditures for works; and (ii) 100% of total
expenditures for equipment and consulting services. For civil works and the
railway component disbursements would be against normal documentation. For
equipment, engineering services, technical assistance and training,
disbursements for contracts valued below US$100,000 would be made against
statements of expenditures.
3.23      An amount of up to US$1.2 million is proposed to be retroactively
financed under the loans for expenditures incurred after January 1, 1986, to
meet part of the costs of the technical assistance and training, of construc-
tion of the marine base which is planned to start as early as possible to be
ready before actual construction of berth 15 can begin and early
implementation of the railway component.
H. Monitoring
3.24      To enable the Bank to monitor implementation of the proposed proj-
ect, LPK should: (a) furnish quarterly progress reports, with the contents
and presentation to be agreed upon prior to the effectiveness of the proposed
financing; (b) maintain separate accounts fully detailing expenditures
incurred for the proposed project; and (c) prepare a project completion report
within six months of the closing of the proposed financing. These were
discussed and agreed to at negotiations.
I. Environmental Impact
3.25      The project is not expected to cause any adverse environmental
effects.  All construction and improvements included under the project will be
within the confines of the existing North Port facilities and will not gener-
ate any interference with coastal or river currents. Any minor dredging which
would take place and the disposal of the dredged spoil should not adversely
affect either the natural flows or the scouring of sediment in the Port Kelang
Harbor.



- 23 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01      The project will provide the LPK with the capacity, technology and
capability to efficiently and economically handle the near and medium term
port traffic and service demands. The port has experienced a rapid shift from
break bulk cargo to container traffic, a trend which is expected to
continue. Current and potential deviation of Malaysian foreign trade through
other ports and the development of load centering by major containership
operations requires the improvement of efficiency in the handling of cargo,
particularly containers in order to reverse this deviation and assure
attention of the port to major ship operators as well as shippers and
consignees.
4.02      Malaysia's vigorous economic growth in the late 1970s and early
1980s, with the overall GDP increasing at an average rate of about 8% per
annum, reflected greater industralization, an expanding petroleum sector and
growth in transportation and trades, both external and internal.  Malaysia's
open economy and its expanding external trade has created a growing demand for
efficient transportation services. These trends are expected to continue in
the foreseeable future. Given the Government's objective of further stimu-
lating external trade, the GDP growth is expected to continue at reduced but
still acceptable rates, averaging 5% per year. Continued economic development
and diversification of the economy will mean further pressures on the avail-
able port capacity Port Kelang which serves the largest population and
industrial concentration in the country.
4.03      The port has expanded its container handling capacity at a rapid
rate. After having achieved a respectable productivity during the first year
of container operations, the rate of growth of productivity improvement has
recently declined. There are various reasons for this, many of which are
beyond the direct control of the port, such as the lack of effective integra-
tion of port and haulier services, delays in customs clearance and documenta-
tion, and inadequate equipment and facilities.
B. Traffic Projections
4.04      Rapid growth in the economy and the resulting quantum increase in
Malaysia's maritime traffic, which occurred during the recent years, are
expected to continue in the future, although at a somewhat reduced pace.
Imports at Port Kelang will account for about 65% of the projected traffic at
the port and are expected to grow by 6% p.a. between 1985 and 1995. Machinery
and parts and iron and steel, the most important import commodities, are
expected to account for one third of imports through the port. Malaysia's
traditional exports of rubber, tin and timber are expected to remain stable
while palm oil, the dominant export commodity, is forecast to grow by 7% p.a.
between 1985 and 1995. Growth of exports is forecast at 3% p.a. during the
ten year period to 1995. Overall general cargo traffic is forecast to grow at
an average rate of about 5% p.a. compared to 9% p.a. for containerized
cargo. Traffic projections for selected years are summarized below:



- 24 -
TRAFFIC FORECASTS
1984          1990            1995
('000 freight tons)
IMPORTS
Dry aulk Goods
Iron and Steel                      907          1,287           1,492
Machinery and Parts               1,177          1,758           2,276
Other                              1,253         1,869           2,341
Subtotal                        3,337          42914           6,109
General Cargo                        3,171         4,522           5,804
Liquid Bulk Goods                    1,231         1,915           2,532
TOTAL IMPORTS                   7,739         11,351          14,445
EXPORTS
Dry Goods                            1,437         1,630           1,678
General Cargo                       2,057          3,077           3,343
Liquid Bulk Goods                    1,0t6         1,659           2,091
TOTAL EXPORTS                   4,570          6,366           7,112
TOTAL PORT CARGO                    12,309        17,717          21,557
Of which containerized            3,951          8,308           9,811
4.05      The traffic projections used in the economic analysis are based on
sector analyses for major commodity groups, macroeconomic relationships and an
assessment of the potential for diverting traffic to Port Kelang. The rapid
growth in the economy and the resulting quantum increase in traffic handled at
the port are expected to continue in the near future, although at a somewhat
reduced pace. Total traffic is expected to increase three and one half times
from 7 million tons in 1980 to 30.7 million tons in the year 2005 (Table 4).
Imports, which account for about 65% of the traffic at the port, will rise at
roughly the same rate as exports and by 2005 are expected to reach 20.5 mil-
lion tons, compared to 9.7 million tons for exports. It is estimated that
liquid goods traffic will increase at a faster rate than dry goods traffic,
accounting for some 30% of the total cargo traffic through the port at the end
of the forecast period, compared with 241 in 1980. Coastal trade, consisting
mainly of exports between Peninsular Malaysia and East Malaysia forms a
significant part of the traffic using Port Kelang. In 1983, the volume was
about 1.3 million tons, equivalent to about 12% of the total traffic through
the port. This traffic is expected to grow at about 4% annually until 1990,
and 2% annualiy thereafcer. Further details supporting the traffic
projections on which the economic analysis is based are contained in the
project file.



- 25 -
C. Project Benefits
4.06      The rapidly increasing rate of containerization at Port Kelang will
require the addition of two container berths by 1992 which will be provided by
converting existing berths 16 to 18 (currently being used for general cargo
but built to container standards) thereby effectively reducing general cargo
handling capacity by 25%, assuming a limiting berth utilization of 85Z. Under
these circumstances, shortages of general cargo handling capacity will com-
mence in 1987 and progressively worsen. The completion of the additional
berth at the North Port by early 1988 would, as an interim measure, help
relieve the anticipated congestion and reduce cargo handling costs. The bene-
fits will flow mainly to container cargo and general cargo traffic.
4.07      The economic evaluation of the project is based on a comparison of
costs involved in handling forecast traffic "with" the project conditions with
those involved in the "without" situation. The "without"l situation used in
the analysis assumes that a number of general cargo berths will be converted
to container use in 1988, 1992 and 1995, thereby substantially reducing
general cargo capacity. In the "with" situation, it is assumed that the new
berth 15 facilities will be operational by 1989 with no further capacity to be
provided thereafter.
4.08      The principal benefits quantified for the rate of return calcula-
tions include: (a) reductions in ship waiting times; (b) reductions in ship
service times by the use of improved facilities; and (c) reductions in damage
to cargo. The savings in ship waiting time attributed to the project commence
in 1989 and are calculated on the basis of cost per ship-day for each type of
vessel and the pattern of ship types and sizes handled at the port.
4.09      Among the benefits that have not been taken into account are the
reduction in cargo handling unit costs and the postponement of investment on
new facilities at Pulau Lumut which would be substantial. In addition, no
attempt has been made to quantify the broad effect that improved facilities
will have on the country's international trade. For these reasons, the econ-
omic justification presented herein is conservative.
4.10      As was indicated earlier (para. 2.26) the efficiency of operations
at Port Kelang is very dependent on downstream activities, which affect the
movement of goods, particularly those that are containerized, into and out of
the port itself. These include the customs and forwarding operations and the
transport operations involved in the actual physical movement of goods to and
from consignees within the port's hinterland. The technical assistance pro-
gram included in the project to help the port improve its marketing and iden-
tify the critical bottlenecks affecting the movement of containers and to help
the Authority improve its management information system, its marketing and
training program is intended to improve the efficiency of the port and assist
in the removal of bottlenecks which directly impact on port operations.
Although these measures have not been quantified in the economic evaluation,
they are expected to yield substantial benefits. They are in fact perceived
by the Government to be the major justification for the project.



- 26 -
Distribution of Benefits
4.11      The estimate of the economic return on the project includes only the
portion occuring to Malaysia. That share of benefits would ultimately pervade
the whole economy in the form of reduced prices of imported goods to domestic
consumers and uninterrupted deliveries and lower costs for investors in indus-
trial and other productive activities. Moreover, benefits retained by the
Malaysian economy will also be reflected in reductions in the total transport
costs for exporters.
D. Project Costs
4.12      The proposed project's economic costs include the cost of civil
works, equipment and related engineering services. Customs duties and taxes
have been excluded.  Shadow pricing has been applied at a rate of 0.77 for
civil works and 0.72 for equipment.
E. Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis
4.13      The economic return from the project investments has been estimated
on the basis of costs and benefits quantified on the basis of the assumptions
presented in the foregoing sections. The overall economic rate of return on
the project investments is expected to be 32% (Table 5). The risks associated
with this project are considered minimal given Malaysia's growth oriented
economy. The effect of possible changes in key benefit parameters on the rate
of return was tested, together with the influence of possible cost increases
above the appraisal estimate. If the costs increase by 15% and the benefits
decrease by the same amount, the ERR would be 28%. If only 50% of the ship-
related benefits are taken into account, the ERF would decrease to 25%.  Fur-
thermore, if project implementation were delayed by two years, the rate of
return would drop to 25%, still acceptable. The switch value analysis indi-
cates that if the benefits decrease by 78%, the net present value (discounted
at 12%) becomes zero. It may be concluded from this analysis that the project
remains feasible under even adverse eventualities. Details of the economic
analysis are available in the project file.
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Introduction
5.01      Port Kelang is empowered, under the Port Authorities Act, to operate
as an autonomous and financially independent body. At the time of its
incorporation, the port received a contribution of assets from the Government
valued at M$9.13 million. No further grants or subsidies have been paid by
the Government, but the port is permitted to borrow from the Government or
from private sources for capital expansion.
5.02      The port is currently confronted by two issues which could have a
major impact on its financial viability. The first of these relates to the
port's tariff structure. Subject to the approval of the Minister of
Transport, the port is empowered to set tariffs with the long-term financial



- 27 -
objective of achieving a 12% return on the total capital employed. Return on
total capital compares net income after taxes and before interest to the total
of the long term debt and equity. The actual return realized in 1983 and 1984
was 8.7% and 8.8% respectively. The port has not increased its tariffs since
1975; however, the Government is considering a reduction in the tariff
structure in order to attract additional traffic to the port. A reduction in
the tariffs could have a negative impact on the port unless it is offset by an
increase in traffic. At the present time, however, the port's strong finan-
cial position allows it considerable flexibility in dealing with the tariff
issue (paras. 5.14 and 5.18).
5.03      The second issue relates to the announced privatization of the
container terminal operation. It is not possible to quantify the impact of
the privatization of the container terminal. Therefore, the financial analy-
sis focuses on the expected operational performance of the port, and it
assumes no change due -to privatization. The container terminal was officially
privatized on March 17, 1986. The final contract negotiated by the Government
will result in a large number of changes to the terminal operations designed
to increase its efficiency and productivity. The new operator will provide
several foreign operating and management personnel with extensive shipping and
maritime experience to manage the terminal. These personnel will also be
invclved with marketing the terminal to foreign shipping companies. In addi-
tion to providing a new managemetnt team, the new operator has also increased
the compensation and benefits to the terminal employees. These and other
changes will result in an increased level of operating expense for the con-
tainer terminal, but the Government believes that these cost increases will be
more than offset by the increase in traffic from foreign shipping and from
improved productivity. Since these changes have only recently become effec-
tive, it is not possible to calculate the financial impact on LPK, but the
financial condition of the LPK will be closely monitored.
B. Past Financial Performance
5.04      For the five years ended in 1984, the port's operating revenues
increased at a 4% annual rate. This growth, which was less than the 5.5%
growth in the port's total tonnage, was primarily attributable to the increase
in container traffic. In 1980, revenue from containers represented 23% of the
port's operating revenue, but in 1984 it represented 36%. This is a 16%
annual growth rate. During the same period, revenue from ship and cargo dues
ir.creased marginally while revenues from cargo storage and stevedoring
declined. The table which follows illustrates the growth rates realized by
the port for the five years ended in 1984:



-28 -
GROWTH RATES
Annual
1980           1984       Growth Rate
Conventional cargo (tons)           7,520           8,358          2.7
Containerized cargo (tons)          2,434           3,951         12.9
Total port tonnage                  9,954          12,309          5.5
Container revenue                M$38,585        M$69,032         15.7
Total revenue                   M$165,392       M$193,325          4.0
5.05      A variance analysis of the operating revenue for these five years
produces the following:
Increase in revenue due to volume increase         M$ 39,129,000
Decrease in revenue due to price/mix change        M$(11,196,000)
Net increase in operating revenues                 M$ 21,933,000
As the above table indicates, the increase in revenue realized by the port was
the result of increases in the volume of traffic, but these increases were
offset by reductions in the effective rates earned by the port for each ton of
cargo handled. Since the port's 1975 tariff structure is still in effect, the
decline in revenue is attributed to the change in cargo mix resulting from an
increase in container traffic and a decrease in cargo storage.
5.06      The port's working expenses were carefully contzolled for the five
years ended in 1984 and, as a result, they only grew at an annual rate of
1.6Z. There are two principal reasons for this minimal growth. First, man-
agement was successful in its attempts to improve the pv rt's operating effi-
ciency.  This improved efficiency was demonstrated by the fact that the ship
turnaround times improved for each of the last four years. The second reason
for the minimal growth in working expenses relates to the increased use of
containers in the port. This shift to containerization occurred most drama-
tically in 1983 and 1984 when container tonnage increased by 211 and 30X,
respectively. During these same years, conventional cargo grew 6Z in 1983 and
declined 1% in 1984. The combination of the port's increased efficiency and
its increased use of containers resulted in reductions in expenses from opera-
tions and stevedoring, in absolute terms, from 1980 to 1984. This reduction
in the operations and stevedoring expenses was offset by increases in mainte-
nance, security and administration expenses which collectively grew at an
annual rate of 10.8% per year. The majority of this growth was in administra-
tion, which grew at an annual rate of 27%.



29 -
5.07      The other expense categories to realize significant increases were
depreciation and interest which grew at annual rates of 21% and 10%, respec-
tively.  These increases were the direct result of an aggressive capital
expansion program in which the port spent in excess of M$221 million in the
four years ended in 1984 (para. 2.13). As was discussed above, the port rea-
lized significant savings in some of its working expenses, but the capital
spending program resulted in a temporary reduction in profit margins to below
1980 levels. The table below summarizes the port's operating results which
are presented in more detail in Annex 2:
ACTUAL REVENUE AND EXPENSES
(in current Ringgit in millions)
Annual
growth
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    rate Z
Operating revenue             $165.4  $168.2  $173.6  $189.6  $193.3        4.0
Working expenses                 93.0    96.9    93.3    96.4    99.0       1.6
Depreciation                     13.0    15.8    28.0/c  28.7    27.8    20.9
Total operating expenses        106.0   112.7   121.3   125.1   126.8       4.6
Operating income                 59.4    55.5    52.3    64.5    66.5       2.9
Interest expense                 17.9    18.6    19.7    24.3    25.9       9.7
Net income                       27.1    25.6    21.4    26.4    29.0       1.7
-_=========    ====
Working ratio /a                 56.2    57.6    53.7    50.9    51.2
Operating ratio /a               64.1    67.0    69.9    66.0    65.6
Net income as Z of revenue       16.4    15.2    12.4    13.9    15.0
Rate of return /b                17.0    19.9    17.6    18.4    17.1
/a   Expressed as a percentage of operating revenue.
7i   Net operating income as a percentage of the average net fixed assets in
operation.
/c   Increase is primarily due to a reduction in the estimated useful lives of
the fixed assets.
5.08      A variance analysis of the port's operating expenses for the five
years ended in 1984 is set forth below:
Increase in expenses due to volume increase             M$25,068,000
Decrease in expenses due to cost/mix changes            M$(4,202,000)
Net increase in operating expenses                      M$20,866,000



- 30 -
As was true with the operating revenues, the increase in operating expenses
was due primarily to the increase in the volume of traffic through the port,
but if the expenses related to security, administration and depreciation are
ignored, the variance analysis would indicate a M$5.6 million reduction in
expenses.
Increase in expenses due to volume increase    M$ 19,679,000
Decrease in expenses due to cost/mix
changes                                        M$(25 320 000)
Net decrease in expenses                         M$ (5,Tl00)
C. Present Financial Position
5.09      The port's financial position at the end of 1984 was strong.
Approximately 33% of its assets were in highly liquid current assets and it
had working capital in excess of M$164 million. Since 98% of its current
assets were in the form of cash and cash equivalents, its acid test ratio was
3.4:1. The port had an investment portfolio of approximately M$219 million on
which it realized interest income of approximately M$20 million. This
investment income represented approximately 10% of the revenue earned from the
port's operations in 1984.
5.10      The port generated approximately K$66 million in cash from its
operations in 1984, and the average annual amount of cash generated from
operations from 1981 to 1984 was approximately M$58 million. These internally
generated funds were sufficient to finance the port's four year M$221 million
capital expansion program.
5.11      The port's fixed assets, which represent 61% of its total assets,
are valued at historic cost, but included in the net fixed assets in operation
of M$382 million is M$221 million of capital spending which occurred during
the last four years. Based on historic cost, the port's rate of return on
fixed assets in operation was 17.1% in 1984. Agreement was reached at nego-
tiations that the port would develop a system to revalue its fixed assets at
their estimated replacement cost with an appropriate allowance provided for
their remaining useful lives. Once this system has been reviewed by the Bank,
the revaluation will occur no later than December 31, 1987.
D. Improvements in Accounting Systems
5.12      The financial systems are generally good, but there is a need to
improve them in order to provide management with more useful data in a timely
manner. The current accounting system was implemented in 1983. It was
designed to provide management with detailed operating cost data along with
the necessary financial information. The system is, however, complex, and the
cost data provided are not reLiable. In addition, because of the complexity
and the lack of automation, revenue and expenditure information are usually
one and a half to two months late. Management has recognized the need to
revise its financial systems and they are in the process of simplifying their



- 31 -
chart of accounts in order to record the port's operations on a profit center
basis rather than their current cost center basis. It is anticipated that the
new system would be more automated than the current one and would provide
management with profit center information in much less time. This revised
system would also require that the budgeting be done on a profit center basis
rather than by departments. The monthly plan versus actual financial state-
ments would then provide management with the type of reliable information that
it needs. The port is working with a consulting firm to help design these and
other changes.
E. Cost Recovery and Profitability
5.13      When the port's current tariff structure was developed in 1975 an
attempt was made to base the tariff rates on the actual cost to perform the
service. Since that time, the port has undergone significant changes in the
amount and type of traffic as well as the quantity and quality of facilities
available. As discussed in the previous section, the port's financial system
does not accumulate reliable cost data, and much of the cost data that is
reliable is not related to the tariff rates. In addition, the port values its
fixed assets at their historic cost rather than at their replacement cost.
Therefore, management does not currently have sufficient information available
to determine the cost of the various services that the port provides.
5.14      The present tariff structure at Port Kelang is now, and has been,
sufficient to recover all of its operating and non-operating expenses. The
rate of return earned on the average amount of fixed assets in operation was
in excess of l7% for 1984. The cash flow from operations, from 1981 to 1984,
was sufficient to fund all of the operating expenses, the debt service costs
and 80X of the capital spending. Because Port Kelang's present financial
position is strong and for the reasons set forth below, no tariff increase is
contemplated at this time. The first additional reason is that the government
is preparing a National Ports Study which will evaluate the maritime sector
and determine its future role in Malaysia's total transportation system. No
major tariff restructuring should be carried out before the results of that
study are known. Secondly, agreement has been reached to privatize the opera-
tion of the container terminal in 1986, but since all of the negotiations
between the government and new operator have not been completed, it is not
possible to determine the adequacy of the current tariffs. Finally, the port
must first revise its accounting system so that management can accurately
determine the true cost of the various services provided before it proposes
changes to the current tariff structure. The LPK has identified this weakness
and has begun to correct it by revising its financial system and by revaluing
its fixed assets based on the estimated replacement cost. During negotia-
tions, agreement was reached that management will begin reviewing the tariff
structure when the cost to perform the various services becomes known. Recom-
mended changes to the tariff structure will be developed and submitted to the
Bank no later than December 31, 1987. If the results of the National Ports
Study are known before the port develops its recommended tariffs, the tariffs
should reflect the conclusions reached in the study as well as the port's
actual cost structure.



- 32 -
F. Budgets and Audits
5.15      The port is required to submit its operating and capital budgets to
the Minister of Transport for approval not later than September 30 of each
year. Once approved, they become the financial plan for the ensuing year.
The budgeting process, which begins six months before the end of the current
year, revises the financial plan for the current year and develops the budget
for the next year. Budgets and financial plans are only developed one year at
a time. The current accounting system provides management with a good
budgetary control system, but the revised system described in para 5.12 will
represent a significant improvement.
5.16      The port has an internal audit staff consisting of 14 people who
report directly to the general manager, and the Government maintains a staff
of eight auditors on the premises on a year-round basis. The Government
performs an annual audit which consists of a 100l examination of the port's
disbursements and a thorough review of management's compliance with generally
accepted accounting principles, the applicable government regulations and the
Statutory Bodies Act of 1980. The port has consistently received a clean
opinion from the Government, and their annual financial statements are usually
prepared by August of the subsequent year. At negotiation, agreement was
reached that the LPK will provide the BAnk with certified financial statements
and the report and other material issuel by the auditor within nine months
After the end of the port's fiscal year.
G. Future Financial Performance
5.17      Set forth in the table below is a forecast of the operations of the
port for the years 1985 to 1990. The detailed financial statements are
presented in Annex 2. The assumptions used to develop the financial
projections are detailed in Annex 1.



- 33 -
FORECAST OF REVENUE AND EXPENSES
(in current Ringgit in millions)
1985      1986       1987      1988       1989       1990
Operating revenue    $197.8    $202.4    $214.7    $228.1    $243.1    $262.5
Operating expenses    143.5       139.3     155.6      164.9      175.2     190.1
Operating income        54.3       63.1      59.1       63.2      67.9       72.4
Interest expense        26.8       25.6      28.5       29.9      29.3       28.1
Non-operating revenue  15.5        15.5      20.0       22.0      23.8    26.3
Net Income             $22.2      $27.7     $26.3      $29.0      `32.7     $37.4
Working ratio/a         58.0       53.4      53.7       53.9       54.0      53.3
Operating ratio/a       72.6       68.8      72.5       72.3       72.1      72.4
Rate of return 7_       14.6       17.7      17.4       19.8       22.2      22.8
/a   Expressed as a percentage of operating revenue.
7i   Fixed assets in oneration valued at historic cost.
5.18      The projected operating revenues are based on management's estimate
of 1985 and 1986 as expressed in the port's 1986 budget and on the projected
volume of traffic through the port. This forecast assumes that the port will
continue to realize improvements in ship turnaround times and increased
efficiencies in cargo handling. These assumptions, which are consistent with
the port's past performance, will cause the effective rate charged per ton of
cargo to continue to decline in real terms (para 5.05); however, in order to
maintain an adequate level of profitability, the port's tariffs must be
increased by approximately 1% in 1990. This tariff increase will produce
approximately M$2 million of additional operating revenue and will result in
an annual growth rate of 5.2% for operating revenues. At negotiation,
agreement was reached that the port will maintain an operating ratio not to
exceed 73% of operating revenues for fiscal years beginning after December 31,
1987. The sensitivity to changes in the port's tariff structure is discussed
below (para 5.22).
5.19      The port's operating expenses are projected to grow at an annual
rate of 6.9% during the forecast period. Since the cost increase is greater
than the increase of 5.2Z in ouerating revenue, there is a projected net
deterioration in the port's operating ratio from 65.6% in 1984 to 72.4% in
1990 and in the working ratio from 51.2% in 1984 to 53.3% in 1990. This
margin deterioration is attributed to the fact that the tariff rates are not
assumed to increase until 1990, and even then the increase assumed is less
than 1%.
5.20      The port's projected balance sheet remains strong due to the large
amount of cash generated from operations. Internally generated cash is



- 34 -
projected to be in excess of M$63 million per year from 1986 to 199O.  This
internally generated cash will enable the port to pay for all of its capital
spending and still increase its short-term investments. By the end of 1990,
the port is projected to have an acid test ratio of 4.8:1, a long term debt to
equity ratio of .8:1, and a debt service coverage of 2.6 times.
5.21      As discussed in para. 2.22, the proposed privatization of the
operations of the container terminal will result in substantial changes to the
port's operations and in the components of its revenues and expenses. Since
the privatization agreement is not yet final, it is not possible to predict
the ultimate impact of the agreement on the port's profitability, but the
terms of reference for the privatization of the container terminal states that
the port will be no worse off financially than if the port had continaed as
the operator. The proposed privatization agreement includes an initial pay-
ment to the port as well as annual lease and dividend payments. This initial
cash payment will provide the Government with some additional flexibility in
the setting of tariffs, but this payment should not be considered as addi-
tional cash for the port but rather as a payment in lieu of cash which the
port would have expected to earn from its future operations. The requirement
that the port's operating ratio will not exceed 73% for fiscal tears beginning
after December 31, 1987 will insure that the port has an adequate level of
-profitability throughout the forecast period.
H. Sensitivity
5.22      The financial forecast is most likely to be affected by changes in
the port's tariff structure and/or by a net decrease in operating income
caused by increases in operating expenses due to inflation. A sensitivity
analysis was performed on the forecast for these two factors. The analysis
indicates that a 1X increase in operating expenses, with no corresponding
increase in operating revenues, would *esult in approximately a 2% reduction
in net income, net cash flow and in the rate of return earned on fixed assets.
Similarly, a 1% change in operating revenues due to changes in the port's
tariff structure will also result in approximately a 2% change in the port's
net income, net cash flow and in its rate of return. Therefore, the combina-
tion of a 1X decrease in operating revenues and a 1% increase in operating
expenses would reduce the port's net income and its rate of return by
approximately 4%.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, the following agreements were reached with
GOM/LPK:
(a)  GOM agreed that no major investments in new port facilities in
excess of M$10 million beyond what is already committed would be
undertaken until the National Ports Study financed under Loan
2291-MA is completed and that the Bank is consulted prior to making
such investments (para. 2.09);



- 35 -
(b)  LPK would undertake, with the help of the technical assistance to
its marketing department, the identification of the critical
bottlenecks which affect the movement of traffic into and out of the
port and propose an action program to implement the recommendations
emanating therefrom. The Government will be required to review the
action program with the Bank and agree on the measures to be
*plemented by June 30, 1987 (para. 3.10(b));
(c) LPK would (i) furnish quarterly progress reports; (ii) maintain
separate project accounts; and (iii) prepare a project completion
report (para. 3.24).
(d) Develop a system to revalue the port's fixed assets at their
estimated replacement cost with an appropriate allowance prov;ided
for their estimated useful lives. Once the system has been reviewed
by the Bank, revalue the fixed assets no later than for the year
ending December 31, 1987 (para. 5.11);
(e) Review the current tariff structure based on the actual costs of
providing the service and recommend changes to the Bank no later
than December 31, 1987 (para. 5.14);
(f) Certified financial statements and the auditors report and any other
relevant material issued by the auditor will be provided to the Bank
within nine months after the end of the port's fiscal year
(para. 5.16);
(g) Maintain an operating ratio not exceeding 73% of the operating
revenues for fiscal years beginning after December 31, 1987 (para.
5.18);
6.02      Retroactive financing up to US$1.0 million from the Port Kelang loan
and US$200,000 from the MR loan should be provided for eligible expenditures
incurred after January 1, 1986, for engineering services, civil works,
technical assistance and training.
6.03      The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$16.7 million to be made to the Kelang Port Authority with the guarantee of
the Government of Malaysia and a loan of US$2.1 million to the Government of
Malaysia. The loans would have a repayment period of 15 years, including a
grace period of three years, at the standard variable interest rate.



- 36-                              ANNEX I
Page I
MALAYSIA
PORT KELANG PROJECT
Assumptions Made in Preparing Financitl Forecasts
A.   General
The financial projections for the period 1985 to 1990 are presented
in current prices. A 5% rate of inflation was used for all capital spending
not related to the project. Operating expenses were inflated at 4.5X. These
rates were applied from 1987 to 1990. The projections of revenues and
expenses are based on the traffic forecasts supplied by the Port Authority and
on the historic relationship of the revenue and expense categories to the
volumes of cargo moving through the port and the number of vessel arrivals.
The project cost for the railroad component and the related borrowings are not
included in the financial statements. Since the IBRD funds will be on-lent to
the MR, there will be no net change an the port's financial statements. In
addition, the M$6.2 millior. loan to the MR is financially not material to the
port.
B.   Income Statement
The revenues for 1985 and 1986 were developed by the port in their
1986 budget and were based on six months of actual performance in 1985.
Thereafter, the revenue categories were forecasted based on the projected
levels of cargo tonnage or ship arrivals and the historic trend of revenue per
ton of cargo or per ship. The total tonnage through the port is projected to
grow at an annual rate of 6.3% from 1984-1990. The majority of this growth is
anticipated to be in container traffic where the annual growth rate is
projected to be 13.2% from 1984 to 1990. The tonnage growth rates are
summarized below:
TONNAGE PROJECTIONS
('000)
Annual
Growth Rates
1984          1990                (X)
Conventional cargo             8,358         9,409               2.0
Containerized cargo            3,951         8,308              13.2
Total port tonnage        12,309        17,717               6.3



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
The tariff rates charged are based on the following schedule:
TARIFF RATES CHARGED
(MV$
Annual
%            Annual X Change
1980     1986     Change      1986-1989      1989-1990
Ship Dues
(rate/ton)               3.57      2.89     -3.5          -1.0             .7
Cargo Dues
(rate/ship)              9.77      7.58     -4.1            0              .3
Cargo Storage            12,436    3,200    -20.2            4.0            6.0
Container Berth/Storage
(rate/TEU)                304       251     -3.1           -.9             .8
Stevedoring
(rate/ton)               6.13     4.67      -4.4            0              .6
The tariff increase assumed in 1990 produced M$1.8 million in
additional operating revenues. Throughout the forecast period, rents and
sundry income grew at annual rates of 4% and 2% respectively.
Non-operating revenue consists primarily of interest income which
has been at least 8Z of the port's short-term investment portfolio each year
from 1980 to 1985. This account has been forecasted to be 8% of the beginning
balance of the short-term portfolio.
The operating expenses have been forecasted to grow at varying
rates. Operations and maintenance expenses are projected to grow at a real
annual rate of 2.8% for 1987 and 1988. This rate of increase allows for some
margin improvement since it is approximately 40% of the growth in volume and
approximately 60% of the real growth in revenue. From 1989 through 1990 the
rate of growth is 5.6% which exceeds the growth rates for volume and revenue
and thereby provides some margin erosion. Stevedoring expense experiences
only nominal real growth of 1.1% from 1987 through 1990. Security and
administration expenses experienced a great deal of growth from 1980 to
1984. These categories should require little additional real growth, during
the forecast period. Therefore, each is projected to increase at a real
annual rate of 1.6%. Depreciation expense is based on the historic average of
6.8% per year of the value of fixed assets in operation, and its real annual
growth rate is 5.7%.



- 38 _
ANNEX 1
Page 3
Interest expense is based on the actual loan payment terms for the
existing debt plus the World Bank loan. The Bank loan is at a constant rate
of 8.82% and requires interest payments only until 1989 at which time the loan
is amortized on a straight line basis over twelve years.
C.   Balance Sheet
Fixed assets in operation and work in progress are based on the
capital investments as presented in the source and application of funds. All
of the investments flow Lhrough the work-in process account. 50% of the
annual, or North and South Port, investment is transferred to fixed assets in
operation in the year of the investment and 50% in the second year. For the
Port Kelang Development, 14% of the total accumulated from 1986 to 1988 is
transferred to fixed assets in operation in 1988. The remainder is
transferred in 1989.
Working capital levels have been based on historic relationships and
are determined as follows:
1.   Cash and bank balances: 5% of operating expenses;
2.   Accounts receivable: 16% of operating revenue;
3.   Stores: 1% of net fixed assets in operation;
4.   Short term investments: this was the difference between the total
liabilities and equity and all other assets;
5.   Current liabilities: increase at an annual rate of 5%.



MALAYSTA
RELANG PORT PROJECT
Actual and Forecast Income Statements. 1980-90
(M '000)
Actual                        (Est.)                       Forecast
1980      1981      1982      1983      1984       1985      1986      1987     1988       1909      1990
REVENUES
Operating Revenuew
Ship dues                         35,5n4    34,494    46,023    37,914    38,968    40,927    41,309    43,137    45,085    47,110    49,9q2
Cargo dues                        37,847    37,359    40,532    41,211    39,744    39,702    39,874    40,697    41,546    42,418    43,419
Cargo storage                     12,436    16,050    11,245    11,228      5,427     5,300     3,200     3,328      3,461     3,600     3,816
Container bertb/storage           38,585    43,824    45,415    56,406    69,032    72,318    78,152    87,717    98,648   111,300   127,674
Stevedoring                       36,615    31,884    32,299    33,126    30,638    30,490    30,848    30,504    29,827    28,777    27,425
Rents                              3,622     3,940      6,994     7,942     6,932     6,040     5,725     5,954      6,192     6,440     6,697
Sundry income                      1,233       689      1,049     1,747     2,584     2,991     3,255     3,320      3,387     3,454     3,523
Total Oper. Revenues         165,392   168,240   173,557   189,574   193,325   197,768   202,163   214,657   228,146   243,098   262,516
Non-operating Revenue                9,849    11,488    10,078    14,519    20,776    15,500    15,536    20,037    21,981    23,774    26,346
TOTAL REVENUES               175,241   179,728   183,635   204,093   214,101   213,268   217,899   234,695   250,127   266,872   288,862
FXPENSES                                                                                                                                   /
Operating Expenses
Operations                        37,176    40,607    31,726    31,466    32,559    34,293    35,831    38,492    41,35n    44,421    47,720
Maintenance                       17,500    16,170    14,507    16,458    19,587    29,642    18,850    20,250    21,754    23,369    25,104
Stevedoring                       28,500    28,444    26,833    26,970    25,389    24,214    25,286    26,715    28,224    29,818    31,503
Security                           3,000     3,378     3,600      3,569     3,650     3,869     3,996     4,241     4,502     4,778      5,072
Admin. & general                   6,800     8,342    16,559    17,950    17,849    22,666    24,069    25,547    27,116    28,781    30,548
Depreciation                      12,978    15,798    28,043    28,674    27,786    28,836    31,258    40,380    41,917    44,156    50,109
Total Oper. Expenses         105,954   112,739   121.268   125.092   126,820   143,520   119,290   155,625   164,862   175,323   190,056
Non-operating Expenses
Interest                          17,941    18,646    19,660    24,291    25,888    26,773    25,605    28,542    29,851    29,327    28,064
Special rev. expense               3,300     1,926      1,923     6,749     3,785     2.700     2,700     2,700     2,700      2,700     2,700
Asset disposal lose                  200       355      1,802         -     4,919         -         -         -         -          -         -
Total Non-Oper. Exp.          21,441    20,927    23,385    31,040    34,592    29,473    28,305    31,242    32,551    32,027    30,764
TOTAL EXPENSES               127,395   133,666   1           56,132 161,412  172,993   167,595   16,867   197,413  207,349   20820
Income Before Tax                     47,846    46,062    38,982    47,961    52,689    40,275    50,303    47,828    52,714    59,523    68,042
Income Tax                            20,700    20,490    17,545    21,600    23,710    18,124    22,637    21,523    23,721    26,785    30,619
NET INCOMW                    27,146    25,572    21,437    26,361    28,979    22,151    27,667    26,305    28,993    32 738    37,423



M4ALAYSTA
KELANG PORT PROJECT
Actual and Forecast Jalance Sheets, 1980-90
(MS '000)~
Actual                         (Est.)                       Forecast
1980      1981      1982       1983      1984        1985     1986       1987      198(      1989       1990
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Fixed Assets In operating         357,424   382,652   419,689   538,587   545,328   555,828   572,328   593,828   616,428   649,346   736,qOO
Accumulated depreciation           87,932    93,676   115,616   141,931   163,272   192,108   223,366   263,746   305,663   349,819   399,928
Net Pixed Assets in Oper.    269,492   288,976   304,073   396,656   3R2,056   363,720   348,962   330,082   310,765   299,527   336,972
Work in progress                     40,062    81,285   105,187    23,447    39,926    65,913    75,223    48,943   131,043   134,685    72,313
Total Fixed Assets            309,554   370,261   409,260   420,103   421,982   429,633   424,185   429,025   441,808   434,212   409,285           0
Long-term receivables
& investments                       2,432    12,693    21,634    28,943    34,251    35,000    35,000    35,000    35,000    35,000    35,000
Current Assets
Cash & baik balance                     -        219       253     5,260        970     7,176      6,965     7,781      8,243     8,766     9,503
Accounts receiveages                    -    30,612    29,580    389095    39,997    31,643    32,378    34,345    36,503    38,896    42,002
Stores                                  -      2,133     2,943     5,184      5,092     3,637      3,490     3,301      3,108     2,995     3,370
Short-term investments                   -   92,250    97,050   150,118   184,700   194,198   250,467   274,766   297,181   329,328   375,770
Total Current Assets          161,236   125,214   129,826   198,657   230,759   236,654   293,299   320,193   345,035   379l985   430,645
TOTAL ASSETS                  473,222   5          5601720   647,703   686,992   701,287   752,484   784,218   821,843   849,197   974,930
CAPITAL & LTABILITTES
Equity
Government grant                    9,134     9,134      9,134     9,134      9,134     9,134      9,134     9,134      9,134     9,134     9,134
Accumulated surplus k reserves   149,187   175,167   196,350   222,591   251,585   273,736   301,403   327,709   356,701   380,439   426,R62
Total Equity                  1589321   184,301   205,484   231,725   260,719   282,870   310,537  33616843   365,835   398,573   435,996
Long-term debt                      271,240   278,322   305,758   353,252   359,880   348,704   368,749   370,517   375,306   365,888   349,961
Current Liabilities                  43,661    45,545    49,478    62,726    66,393    69,713    73,198    76,858    80,701    R4,736    88,973
TOTAL CAPITAL & LIABILITIES  473,222   508.168   560,720   647,703   686,992   701,287   752,484   784.218   821,843   849,197   874,930



MALAYSIA
RELANG PORT PROJECT
Actual and Forecast Sources & Applications of Funds, 1981-90
(MS'000)
Actual                     (Egt.)                        Forecast
1981      1982       1983       1984        1985     1986       1987    ~ 8  1988          199?   F0-
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Tnternal Generation
Income before tax & interest                   64,708    58,642    72,252    78,577    67,048    75,909    76,370    82,565    88,A50    96,106
Depreciation                                   15,798    28.043    28,679    27,786    28,836    31,258    40,380    41,917    44,516    50,109
Capital contribution                                -                                                                                            0 -  -  1 -  -  -  -
Net adjustment & receipts                       2,055      2,636      1,326     5,449          -          -          -          -         -          -
Total Internal Generation before
Interest & Tax                          82,561    89,321   102,257   111.862    95,884   107.167   116,750   124.482   133,005   146,215
Borrowings
New debt:
Foreign loans                                     -          -          -         -          -      4,88tl    12,420    16,810      6,680          -
Government loans                                  -          -          -         -          -    27,000           -         -          -          -
Old debt;                                      14,200    34,551    56,648    17,814            -                     -          -         -
Total Borrowings                           14,200    34.551    56,698    17.814            _    31.880    12.420    16.810        6.680
TOTAL SOURCES                              96,761   123.872   158,955   129.676    95.884   139.047   129.170   141.292   139.685   146,215
APPLICATIONS OF PUND8
Investments
North & South port                             77,269    69,123    39,539       9,000    12,000    21,000    22,000    23,200    24,400    25,600
Port slang Development                              -          -          -    26,123    19,987       9,310    23.720    32,10n    12,760            -
Total Investment                           77,269    69.123    39,539    35,123    31,987    3n,310    45,710    55,330    37,160    25.600
Debt Servlce
faterest:
Old debt                                     18,646    19,660    24,291    25,888    26,773    23,150    24,991    24,817    23,704    22,741
New debt                                          -          -          -         -          -      2,455      3,551     5,034      5,623      5,323
Amortization;
Old debt                                      5,092      5,319     7,105      9,229    11,176    11,835    10,652    12,021    12,699    12,528
New debt:
Foreign                                         -          -          -         -          -          -          -         -      3,399      3,399
Government loan                                 -          -          -         -          -          -          -                         
Total Debt Service                         23,738    24,979    31,396    35.117    37,949    37,440    39.194    41,P72    45.425    43 991
Payment of Income tax                            20,700    15,015       9,992    20,250    23,710    18,124    22,637    21,523    23,721    26,785
Payment of arrears & adjustments                    397      1,008      1,629        103         -          -          -          -         -
Total Applications                        122.104   110,125    82,556    90593    93646    8874   107,550   118,694   106,306    96,376
Net Cash Plow                             -25,343    13,747    76.399    39,083        2,238    53.173    21.620    22.598    33,179    49,839



- 42-                               ANNEX 3
MALAYSIA
PORT KELANG PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Lmplementation
Start       Complete
Part A - Marine Base
Engineering and design                             Aug 02, 1985   Nov 30, 1985
Prepare bid documents                              Oct 04, 1985   Nov 22, 1985
Bid period                                         Dec 27, 1985   Feb 14, 1986
Receive and open bids, evaluation and receipt
by Bank of copy of Evaluation Report and LPv(
recommendations                                  Feb 17, 1986   May 01, 1986
Construction of pier and administration
building                                         Jun 02, 1986   Jun 12, 19R7
Part B - Berth 15 Breasting dolphins and Paving
ot bertn 15-1w back up Area
Frequalification of contractors including Bank
review                                         Mar 01, 1986   May 30, 1986
Bid period                                       Jun 16, 1986   Sep 12, 1986
Receive and open bids, evaluation and receipt
by Bank of copy of Evaluation Report and
LPK recommendations                            Sep 15, 1986   Dec 15, 1986
Construction period                              Jan 16, 1987   Dec 30, 1988
Part C - Technical Assistance and Trainin
Finalize  TORs including-Bank review               Jan 01, 1986   Feb 28, 1986
Invite bids                                        Mar 03, 1986   Apr 11, 1986
Technical assistants to be in place                Jun 02, 1986   May 30, 1989
Part ) - Procurement of Equipment for Marketing
and MIS lpe artment
Prepare equipment lists, specifications and
bid documents and submit to Bank for review                   Nov 03, 1986
Invite bids from selected international
suppliers                                                     Dee 05, 1986
Evaluation of bids                               Dec 15, 1986   Jan 15, 1987
Receipt by Bank of report on evaluation
with recommendation for award                                 Jan 30, 1987
Award contract                                                   Feb 28, 1987
Delivery of equipment                            Apr 01, 1987   May 15, 1987
Part E - Railway Pilot Component
Prepare equipment lists, specifications and bid
documents and submit to Bank for review                          Sep 30, 1986
Invite bids                                                       Dec 01, 1986
Evaluation of bids                                                 Dec 31, 1986
Receipt by Bank of report on evaluation with
recomnendations for award                                       Feb 15, 1987
Award contract                                                     Mar 01, 1987
Delivery of equipment                              Apr 01, 1987   Sep 30, 1987



MALAYSIA
KELANG PORT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
(December 31, 1985 prices)
Foreign
M$ million                US$ million              Loan       % of total
Local   Foreign  Total    Local   Foreign  Total    (US$ mln)   base costs
Civil Works
Berth 15                        19.90    20.70   40.60       8.12     8.45   16.57         8.45            58
Back up area                     3.43      3.57    7.00      1.40      1.46    2.86        1.46            10
Oil berth                        0.74      0.76    1.50      0.30     0.31    0.61         0.31             2           1
Marine base                      3.78      3.92    7.70      1.55      1.60    3.13        1.60            11           *
Subtotal                    27.85    28.95   56.80    11.37    11.82   23.19          11.82            81
Engineering surveys
and investigations /a            0.65      0.45    1.10      0.27     0.18    0.45         0.18             1
Technical assistance
and training /a                  0.66      1.24    1.90      0.26     0.50    0.76         0.50             3
Equipment                          0.83      0.61    1.44      0.34      0.25    0.59        0.25             2
Railway pilot                      1.91      4.34    6.25      0.78      1.77    2.55        1.77            12
Total Base Cost             31.90    35.59   67.49    13.02    14.52   27.54          14.52           100
Physical contingencies             3.19      3.56    6.75      1.30      1.45    2.75        1.45
Total                       35.09    39.15   74.24    14.32    15.97   30.29          15.97
Price contingencies                4.36      6.94   11.30      1.79      2.d3    4.62        2.83
Total Financing
RequFiredci               39.45    46.09   85.54   16.11    18.80   34.91          18.80                          i
/a  Excluded from the calculation of price contingencies.
Notes: 1. All figures are founded.
2. The exchange rate: US$1.00 = M$2.45



44 -TABLE 2
MALAYSIA
PORT KRLANG PROJECT
Technical Assistance Budget
Local     Foreign      Total
Item                                                      (M$)         (MS)        (MS)
Port Marketing
Consulting services (16 man-months)                       20,000      1o00no0    120,000
Visits to and internship at 2-3 ports and
marketing organizations (10 man-months)                 60,000       60,000     120,000
Computerized marketing support system -
data systems, proformas, files, etc. including
hardware                                               120,000      140,000     260,000
Subtotal                                           200,000     300,000      500,0nn
Management Information System
Consulting services software development,
file/data systems, control systems, etc.
(10 man-months)                                         70,000      1O0,0oO     170,003
Hardware (computers, peripherals, gate controls,
terminals, readers)                                     80,000      180,000     260,000
Systems Installation - data collection -
testing calibration (24 man-months)                    100,000       7n,000     170,000
Subtotal                                           250,000     350,000      600,000
Port Training
Management Training:
Consultancy services (12 man-months)                    8O,000      240,000     320,000
Books, computers, etc.                                       -       90,000      90,600
Training of trainers (4 man-months)                     40,000       30,000      70,000
Engineering Training:
Consulting services (8 man-months)                     130,000      80,000      210,000
Training materials                                      60,000       30,000      90,000
Operations Management Training:
Consulting services (12 man-months)                     60,000      160,000     220,000
Equipment and materials                                 40,000       80,000     120,000
Equipment Operations and Maintenance Training:
Consulting services (36 man-months)                    100,000     400,000      500,000
Equipment and materials                                530,000      90,000      620,000
Subtotal                                         1,040,000   1,20j,000   2,2Q0,000
TOTAL                                            1,490,000   1,850,000   3,340,000



- 45 -                               TABLE 3
MALAYSIA
KELANG PORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements in US$ '000
During quarter           Cumulative
FY87
September 30, 1986                                 150                    150
December 31, 198.6                                 150                    300
March 31, 1987                                   1,000                  1,300
June 30, 1987                                    2,000                  3,300
FY88
September 30, 1987                               2,000                  5,300
December 31, 1987                                3,000                  8,300
March 31, 1988                                   3,000                 11,300
June 30, 1988                                    2,000                 13,300
FY89
September 30, 1988                               1,500                 14,800
December 31, 1988                                1,500                 16,300
March 31, 1989                                   1,000                 17,300
June 30, 1989                                    1,000                 18,300
FY90
September 30, 1989                                 250                 18,550
December 31, 1989                                  250                 18,800
Proposed Closing Date: December 31, 1989
Source: Mission estimate.
December 1985.



-46-                                 TABLE 4
"age 1
MALAYSIA
RELANG PORT PROJECT
Traffic Forecast
1984      1990       1995       2000
IMPORTS
Dry BulkiGoods
-lonand steel                             907      1,287      1,492     1.729
Fertilizer                                595        838     1,020      1,241
Machinery and parts                     1,177      1,758     2,276      2,626
Wheat grain (bulk)                        213        254        295       326
Sugar (bulk)                              144        157       181        209
Animal feed (bulk)                        148        240       465        530
Rice                                       82         80        80         80
Cement                                     71        300       300        300
Subtotal                            3,337      4,914      6.109      7,041
General Cargo
Uftemicals                                428        574       698        849
food and beverages                        504        703       910      1,178
Paper and newsprint                       494        625       760        925
Transport equipment                        95        147        196       263
Metals and metal products                 177        224        286       365
Household goods                           416        624       797      1,017
Construction materials                    142        207       277        371
Plastic goods                              72         81        90         90
Other                                     R43     1,338      1,790      2,396
Subtotal                            3,171      4,523      5,804      7,454
Liqsuid Bulk Goods
Petroleum-LPK/SP                          450        714       956      1,279
Petroleum-LPW/MP                          263       417        559        747
Petroleum-Shell Jetty                     418        663       888      1,188
Vegetable oils                             65         90        100       100
Chemicals-liquid                           35         30        30         30
Subtotal                            1,231      1,914      2,533      3,344
Total Imports                       7,73q    11,351    14,446    17,839
EXPORTS
Dry_Goods
Trmbe-rand Plywood - LPR                  300        460       498        597
Timber and Plywood - Priv. Jet.           489       450        450        450
Rubber                                    556        630       640        660
Latex (Drums)                              92         90        90         90
Subtotal                            1,437      1,630      1,678      1
General Cargo
Palm KerneI  Waste                        228        335       388        450
Palm oil (Drums)                           50         50        50         50
Iron and steel products                    88        169       225        302
Other                                   1,691     2,524      2,680      3,280
Subtotal                            2,057      3 078      3,343      4.082
Liquid Bulk Goods
F~ alm oil                                 975      1,529      1,961     2,514
Latex                                     101        130        130       130
Subtotal                            1,076      1,659      2,091      2.644
Total Exports                       4,570      6,367      7,112      8.523
Source: LPR and Mission estimates.
December 1985



-47 -
TABLE 4
'age 2
MALAYSIA
RELANG PORT PROJECT
Container Traffic
1984      1990       1995       2000
Container Cargo Projection
Rice                                        0         0          0          0
5% of iron and steel/MP                    18        64         30         35
5% of iron and steel/SP                     2         3          5          6
Machinery and parts                       353     1,108      1,434      1,654
Chemicals                                 214       545        663        807
Food and beverages                       428        668        864      1,119
Paper and newsprint                       346       594        722        879
Transport equipment                        10        59         78        105
Metals and metal products                  53       146        186        237
Household goods                           291       593        757        966
Construction materials                     92       176        236        315
Plastic goods                             65         77         85         86
Other (imports)                           632     1,268      1,697     2,271
Other (exports)                           676     1,874      1,876      2,296
Timber and plywood - LPK                 270        414        448        537
Rubber                                   417        605        614        634
Latex (drugs)                              74        81         81         81
Palm oil (drugs)                           10        35         35         35
Total Container Cargo               3,951      8,310     9,811    12,063
Source: LPK and Mission estimates.
December 1985.



-48-                               TABLE 4
Page 3
MALAYSIA
RELATG PORT PROJECT
Conventional Cargo
1984      1990       1995      2000
Conventional Carga
Rice                                      82         80        Rn         80
Iron Ard steel MP                        889      1,222     1,462      1,694
Billets in bulk                        400       400        400        400
Finished products                      489       822      1,062      1,294
Machinery and parts                      824        651       842        972
Chemicals                                214         29        35         42
Food and beverages                        76         35        45         59
Paper and newsprint                      148         31        38         46
Transport equipment                       86         88       118        158
Metals and metal products                124         78       100        128
Household goods                          125         31        40         51
Construction materials                    50         31        42         56
Plastic goods                              7          4         4          5
Other (I%ports)/SP                       211         70        93        125
Tiiber and plywod - LPK                   30         46        50         60
Rubber                                   139         25        26         26
Latex (drums)                             18          9         9          9
Palm oil (drums)                          40         15        1          15
Palm kernel waste                        228        335       388        450
Iron and steel - finished
products - SP                           86        165       221        296
Other (Exports)/SP                     1,015       650        804        984
Total Conventional Cargo            52281     4,817      5,874     6.950
Source: LPR anA Mission estimates.
December 1985.



-49                                 TABLE 4
Page 4
MALAYSIA        -
KELANG PORT PROJECT
Liquid Bulk Cargo
1984      1990      1995       2000
Petroleum-shell jetty                      418       663        888     1,18R
Petroleum-LPK/SP                           450       714        956     1,279
Petroleum-LPX/MP                           263       417        559       747
Latex                                      101       130        130       130
Palm oil                                   975     1,529      1,961     2,514
Vegetable oils                              65        90        100       100
Chemicals/liquid                            35        30         30        30
Total Liquid Bulk                  2,307      3,573     4,624      5,988
Source: LPR and Mission estimates.
December 1985.



MALAYSIA
KFLANG PORT PROJECT
Internal Rate of Return (IRR) and Sensitivity Analysis
(USS million)
Costs                           Benefits                   Net               Test case 1
Capital Maint.               Convent. Liquid   Contain.             cash       Cost      Bene-  Net cash
Year                costs   loper.    Total      cargo      bulk     cargo   Total    flow       (+15%)     fits      flow
1986                  1.20     -         1.20      -         -        -         -      (1.20)      1.38       -        (1.38)
1987                 11.10     -        11.10      -         -        -        0.00   (11.10)    12.77       0.00    (12.77)
1988                  7.10     -         7.10      -         -        -        0.00    (7.10)      8.17      0.00      (8.17)
1989                  1.80     -         1.80     0.64      0.33     0.20      1.17    (0.63)      2.07      1.17      (0.90)    o
1990                   -      0.20       0.20     0.28      0.35     0.30      0.93     0.73       0.23      0.93       0.70
1991                   -      0.20       0.20     0.41      0.37     0.31      1.09     0.89      0.23       1,.n9      0.R6
1992                   -      0.20       0.20     4.05      0.38     0.21      4.64     4.44       0.23      4.64       4.41
1993                   -      0.20       0.20    21.76      0.40     0.21    22.37    22.17        0.23     22.37      22.14
1994                   -      0,20       0.20    22.58      0.42     0.32    23.32    23.12        0.23     22.32      23.09
1995                   -      0.20       0.20    22.78     0.45      0.32    23.55    23.35       0.23      23.55      23.32
1996                   -      0.20       0.20    22.93      0.47     0.33    23.73    23.53       0.23      23.73      23.50
1997                   -      0.20       0.20    23.28      0.49     0.46    24.23    23.03       0.23      24.23      24.00
1998                   -      0,20       0.20    23.15      0.52     0.54    24.21    24.01        0.23     Z4.21      23,98
1999                   -      0.20       0.20    22.85     0.54      0.74    24.13    23.93        n.23     24.13      23.9Q
2000                   -      0.20       0.20    23.28      0.57     0.78    24.63    24.43        0.23     24.63      24.40
2001                   -      0.20       0.20    23.17      0.59     1.07    24.83    24.63        0.23     24.48      24.60
2002                   -      0.20       0.20    22.46      0.62     1.25    24.33    24.13        0.23     24.33      24.10
2003                   -      0.20       0.20    19.99      0.64     1.43    22.06    21.86        0.23     22.06      21.R3
2004                   -      0.20       0.20    20.85      0.67     1.93    23.45    23.25        0.23     23.45      23.22
2005                (10.60)   0.20    (10.40)   21.82       0.69     2.31    24.82    35.22    (10.37)    24.82        35.19
Total            10.60    3.20   13,80      296.28      8.50    12.71   317.49   303.69       17.47    317.49    300.02
- RR f   32.-0F-       -              = 30.5% 
~zs
O-A
%A



Test case 2                  Test case 3                 Test case 4                 Test case 5                  Test case 6
Rene-    Net               Bene-     Net               Benefits  Net      Switching value    Net      Switching value    Net
fits    cash     Costs      fits    cash               (Delay   cash               Bene-    cash               Bene-    cash
Year              Costs    (-15%)   flow       (+15%)   (-15%)   flow      Oosts    2 years) flow      Costs    fits      flow     Costs    fits      flow
335.00 (74)                           78.10 (-%)
1986               1.20       -       1.20      1.38      -      (1.38)    1.20       -       (1.20)    5.22      -       (5.22)    1.20      -       (1.20)
1987              11.10      0.00   (11.10)   12.77      0.00   (12.77)   11.10       -     (11.10)   48.29       -     (48.29)   11.10       -      (11.10)
1988               7.10      0.00    (7.1n)    8.17      0.00    (8.17)    7.10       -       (7.10)   30.89      -      (0n.89)    7.10      -       (7.10)
1989               1.80      0.99    (o.R1)    2.07      n.49    (1.08)    1.80      o.no    (1.80)    7.83      1.17    (6.66)    I.RO      0.26    (1.54)
1990               0.20      0.79     0.59     0.23      0.79     0.56      0.20     0.00    (0.20)    0.87      0.93      0.06     0.20     0.20      0.0 
1991               0.20      0.93     0.73     0.23      0.93     0.70      0.20     1,17     0.97      0.R7     1.09      0.22     0.20     0.24      0.04      v
1992               0.20      3.94     3.74     0.23      3.94     3.71      0.20     0.93     0.73      0.87     4.64      3.77     0.20     1.02      0.82
1993               0.20    19.01    18.81      0.23    19.01    18.78       0.20     1.09     0.89      0.87    22.37    21.50      0.20     4.9n      4.70
1994               0.20    19.82    19.62       0.23    19.82    19.59      0.20     4.64     4.44      0.87    23.32    22.45      0.2n     5.11      4.91
1995               0.20    20.02    19.A2      0.23    20.02    19.79      0.20    22.37    22.17       0.87    23.55    22.68      0.20     5.16     4.96
1996               0.20    20.17    19.87      n.23    20.17    19.93       0.20    23.32    23.12      0.87    23.73    22.86      0.20     5.20      5.00
1997               0.20    20.60    20.40      0.23    20.60    20.37       0.20    23.55    23.35      0.87    24.23    23.36      0.20     5.31      5.11
1998               0.20    20.58    20.38      0.23    20.58    20.35       0.20    23.73    23.53      0.87    24.21    23.34      0.20     5.30      5.1n
1999               0.20    20.51    20.31      0.23    20.51    2n.28       0.20    24.23    24.03      0.87    24.13    23.26      0.20     5.28      5.08
2000               0.20    20.94    20.74      0.23    20.94    20.71       0.20    24.21    24.01      0.87    25.63    23.76      0.20     5.39      5.19
2001               0.20    21.11    20.91      0.23    21.11    20.88       0.20    24.13    23.93      n.87    24.83    23.96      0.20     5.44      5.24
2002               0.20    20.68    20.48      0.23    20.68    20.45       0.20    24.63    24.43      0.87    24.33    23.46      0.20     S.33      5.13
2003               0.20    18.75    18.55      0.23    18.75    18.52       0.20    24.83    24.63      0.87    22.06    21.19      0.20     4.R3      4.63
2004               0.20    19.93    19.73      0.23    19.93    19.70       0.20    24.33    24.13      0.87    23.45    22.58      0.20     5.14      4.94
2005             (10.40)   21.10    31.50   (10.37)   21.10    31.47   (10.40)   22.06    32.46    (9.73)   24.82    34.55   (20.40)    5.44    15.84
Total        113.80f  269.87   256.07    17.47   269.83   152.40    13.80   269.22   255.42    95.54   317.49   221.95    13.80    69.53    55.73
IRR - 30IRR       e17 RR    7 27%R =                          25.2%                 IRR n 12.%                   IRR .' 12.0%
I n.



- 52 -
TABLE 6
NALAYSIA
PORT KELANG PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.   Key Financial Indicators
2.   Revenue Forecast
3.   Capital Spending for Project
4.   IBRD Loan Disbursement
5.   IBRD Loan Disbursement and Repayment Schedule
6.   Required Revenues from Privatization
7.   North and South Port Capital Spending 1985-1995.
8.   Internally Generated Cash
9.   Operations, Maintenance and Stevedoring Expenses in 1980 Dollars
10. Detailed Traffic Forecasts
11. EIRR Calculations



|.   } ~~~ ---------------
-----------|----1- -------------       L
I~~~~~~~~~ ID
OR ] 
-   -- -   -- --            - -- - -- -
T DIM                         IES~-    I                                           u:~



A                    B                             10i02~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r ~~~~~~To K8pa('#
MALAYSIA
PORT KELANG
PROJECT
PORT LAYOUT
-   { Project                            Pulau  Keolang
O     Future                                                                                                           '
EXISTING:                                                                                      SOUTH
---  Port boundary                                                                                        T P
8o   Liquid bulk facilities
Dry bulk facilities                                  PUIAU
[Z]  Sheds                                                   WMUr LJ   PETROLEUM
PORT
RaihJys3$
Rivers                                                                                               E      )
0   100  200  300  400  500
METERS
C   10000                                                  f\                            /
t Jooooo
g/ t ~~~1    Cockn                                    che0d       ~                    - I
YARD STORE   -t
--~I                             _   _    _                                           -    - - - -J 
r: A ~~~benhsf                                         GENERAL           CA~0          WHARF      ~IA
Bulk Carg30 whr     cz      :s        n H.                                                                  . 
BERTH 25 |  U  H24    BERTH23  I BET 2           E1TH 19     | BERTHI 18ER H 17    |   BERTH 16    |BH1
.~~~~~~~~brh-                                                                                          i:.~ovg



IBRD 19350
To fCdpar \                 i r~~~~O mers                          
1 1-2                       so                                     30' nTWIN
ToKapo'        To Me,,,                     iQ~~~~~ 30             >~ THAJLAND
PERLIS                   I
} f'~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                    <     o '~  T /                      '-  V-K'l
k.rANTAN '
PAtANG
KELANG                                                                             P.,-)f,T      WGEt: NGO t
K<iA At.i     SEMABIAN '-
PORT    4)                    )                 \                                                                                 L MESA,A
_   (                \                                    \        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I N D) O N E 31I A
lci~~  ~          _30'   \                                      SINGAPORE
GENERAL AREA
G&i0f~~~~~~~~~~                           0                F-,~~~~~~~~~~~tsye poi a P 'vU
_____  Future aOd0s
/    PAs1  2          4 d     5
-   3OOs                                        KILOMETERS
ts.a No4osal Cap t...
-Sta[te 0.Oa,,r.ans.
10-26                              ToJeTo,ron       - je-    ' t.on a Bouaafae'
A~1/ TToIeilang
ChecKing paost /
-__ -   _n _          -CONT.dNER
7      z                                                                                        ',,, '''' 
.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ E I                  'Cotcln                                -i                            CONTAINER                         Ub
AREA                             J           Woreshoo                                                      STACKING    AREA         ,
/                     I                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Administrolive  I    ,
1 1 X - C - - r CO V;4 E [2 -F - - - - ; . i , , A~-ouble Sided
BERlid 16     1 BERTH 15        R~      11147| BE9tH 53 |BE1RT   12 /ERNBERTH                                                               Romp
DECEMBER 1985



