The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4276-MA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED LOANS
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US18.8 MILLION
TO THE KELANG PORT AUTHORITY TO BE
GUARANTEED BY MALAYSIA
AND TO MALAYSIA
FOR A
-'                                   PORT KELANG PROJECT
March 31, 1986
IThis document has a resuicted distribution and may be used by recipents only in the peflormance
or their official duties. Its contents may not othawise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Ringgit (M$)
Average 1985                  December 1985
US$1.0 = M$ 2.48                   M$ 2.45
M$ 1  = US$0.40                    US$0.41
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ESCAP      -   Fconomic and Social Council for Asia and Pacific
EPU        -   Economic Planning Unit
ODM        -   Government of Malaysia
ICB        -   International Competitive Bidding
JKR        -   Department of Public Works
LCB        -   Local Competitive Bidding
LLM        -   Malaysian Highway Authority
LNG        -   Liquefied Natural Gas
LPK        -   Kelang Port Authority
MLT        -   Medium and Long-Term
MR         -   Malayan Railways
PORTMIS    -   Port Management Information System
TEU        -   Twenty-foot Equivalent Unit (the common unit used in indicating
the capacity of a container ship or terminal)
.94



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
PORT KELANG PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrowers:        Kelang Port Authority (LPK) and the Government of Malaysia
(GOM)
Guarantor:        Malaysia
Amount:           US$18.8 million, of which US$16.7 million to Kelang Port
Authority and US$2.1 million to the Government
Terms:            Repayable in 15 years, including three years' grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:    This will be the Bank's third involvement in the port sub-
sector and the first in Peninsular (West) Malaysia. The
proposed project will support the Relang Port Authority's
objectives of increasing port capacity and improving its
operations and efficiency. It will also further develop
LPK's technical and managerial capabilities and contribute
to the overall economic growth of the country. The project
consists of (a) construction of a 265 meter general cargo/
container berth, paving of the back-up area, and provision
of additional bulk liquid breasting dolphins; (b) construc-
tion of a marine base consisting of a 256 meter jetty and a
1,800 m2 administration building; (c) 122 man-months of
technical assistance to strengthen LPK's training program,
its marketing department and its management information
systems; and (d) a pilot railway component to assist the
Malayan Railway in the handling of containers. The con-
struction of the general cargo/container berth, the jetty
and the administration building are similar to much larger
and successfully completed projects implemented by LPK;
therefore, the risks related to project implementation and
operation are negligible. The location of the new works is
within the existing port boundaries and, as such, land
acquisition will not be needed.
I This document has a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreign   Total
----US$ Million--
A.  Civil works
Berth 15                    8.12        8.45    16.57
Back up area                1.40        1.46     2.86
Oil berth                   0.30        0.31     0.61
Marine base                 1.55        1.60     3.15
Subtotal             , 11.37      11.82    23.19
Engineering surveys and
investigations            0.27       0.18      0.45
B. Technical assistance and
training                  0.26        0.50     0.76
C.  Railway pilot                 .78       1.77      2.55
D. Equipment                    0.34        0.25     0.59
Base estimate:             13.02       14.52    27.54
Contingencies
Physical                    1.30        1.45     2.75
Price                       1.79        2.83     4.62
Total Project
Cost                     16.11       18.80    34.91 /a
Financing Plan:
Port Kelang                    15.19         -       15.19
Government                      0.92         -        0.92
Bank                             -         18.80    18.80
Total:                     16.11       18.80    34.91
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY         1987      1988       1989      1990
-          (US$ Million)-   ----
Annual            3.3     10.0        5.0        .5
Cumulative       3.3      13.3       18.3      18.8
Rate of Return: 32% (Port component)
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 6010-MA, dated March 31, 1986
Nap No. IBRD 19350:
/a Total cost, net of taxes and duties, US$31.6 million.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED LOANS
TO THE KELANG PORT AUTHORITY TO BE GUARANTEED BY MALAYSIA
AND TO MALAYSIA FOR A PORT KELANG PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on proposed loans
to the Kelang Port Authority and to Malaysia, for the equivalent of US$18.8
million, to help finance the Port Kelang Project. US$16.7 million would be
lent to the Kelang Port Authority, and US$2.1 million to the Government for
the Malayan Railway component. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including three years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic report, "Malaysia:  Development Strategies and
their Financing" (No. 5560-MA), is dated September 3, 1985. This section
reflects also the findings of a Bank mission which visited Malaysia in July
1985 for a general economic review with particular emphasis on agriculture and
industry.
3.        By most economic indicators, Malaysia's economic performance was
outstanding in the 1970s. The per capiLa income of US$1,990 in 1984 is among
the highest in Southeast Asia. In the last decade, per capita GDP growth has
averaged about 5.5% p.a., somewhat higher than the 4% p.a. per capita growth
achieved in the 1960s. This sustained good performance was a reflection of
several factors, including the country's wealth in natural resources, especi-
ally ample reserves of cultivable land and oil and gas; an outward-oriented
growth strategy; favorable developments in the world economy; good economic
and financial management; and, not least, stable social and political institu-
tions. Three specific elements have been important: first, substantial
attention and priority has been given to agriculture, resulting in high pro-
ductivity gains in the sector which have cushioned against occasional steep
price declines; second, manufacturing growth has been rapid, at about 12% per
annum, in the last two decades, following first an import substituting
pattern, but later increasingly oriented towards exports; third, in a very
open economy, with exports and imports recently averaging more than 50% of
GDP, exports have diversified from an initial large dependence on rubber and
tin to include palm oil, petroleum and manufactured goods.
1/   Parts I and II of this President's Report are identical to those in the
President's Report for the Primary and Secondary Education Project
(Report No. P-4159-MA, dated ApriL 10, 1986), submitted to the Board of
Executive Directors on April 10, 1986.



-2-
4.        Malaysia is a multiracial society with approximately 55X of the
population indigenous Malays, 35Z Chinese, and the remainder largely Indian.
The country inherited deep divisions in the distribution of income between
ethnic communities. The incidence of poverty covered all ethnic groups, but
was disproportionately high among Malays; their average per capita incomes
were only half those of the Chinese community. In 1971, the Government
declared a New Economic Policy (NEP), and accorded the highest priority to
eradicating poverty and reducing the racial imbalances in income, employment,
and ownership of assets. By 1983, some progress had been made in reducing the
number of households living below the poverty line, particularly in rural
areas. In addition, there has been substantial progress towards reducing
interracial disparities in income and asset ownership.
5.        The Malaysian economy has been undergoing some important structural
changes. Industry has joined agriculture as the major contributor to GDP and
exporting manufactured goods has replaced import substitution as the cutting
edge of industrial growth. In particular, there has been a remarkable and
dominating increase in exports of electronic goods over the last 15 years.
Export diversification (particularly through palm oil, petroleum, and more
recently LNG) has proved important, as some of Malaysia's traditional major
foreign exchange earners show signs of flagging vitality. Tin production
steadiLy declined in the face of weak prices, the exhaustion of many mines,
and increasing costs of extraction, and was severely disrupted recently by the
suspension of international tin trading. Although timber prod-uction has
recently been buoyant, exploitation of the resource has led to detrimental
environmental consequences, and the Government has restricted logging in
Peninsular Malaysia. Finally, rubber production has been fluctuating across a
declining trend for several years. While factors specific to the cultivation
of rubber have been at work, an important reason has been the migration of the
young and educated from the farms to the towns. This has fostered a major
structural change in the Malaysian economy, as it appears that the agricul-
tural labor force may now be peaking in absolute numbers. In turn, this
suggests rather different strategies to be followed in the agricultural sector
in years to come, both to maintain agricultural production as well as to
tackle the large extant problem of rural poverty. In the tree crops sector,
for example, production growth is being pursued through productivity and
efficiency gains rather than increased acreage. As for food crops, further
growth in rice production may well prove to be uneconomic and entail consider-
ably higher subsidies than the rice sector already receives. It is therefore
appropriate that the Government has moved gradually away from its previously
proclaimed goal of rice self-sufficiency and is emphasizing greater crop
diversification.
6.        While, in general, the economy has performed well in the last few
years, this progress has been punctuated by periods of occasional diffi-
culty. This has been particularly true in the most recent international com-
modity price cycle. Between 1977 and 1980, prices for palm oil, rubber,
timber, and petroleum increased rapidly, and export receipts nearly doubled.
The terms of trade improved by about 13% in the same period, and real national
income grew by more than 1 p.a. In 1980, however, the prices of virtually
all of Malaysia's export commodities began to fall and, over the next two
years, the terms of trade declined by more than 82, representing a loss of



-3-
national income of about 52. Anticipating, in 1980, a short international
recession, the Government introduced a countercyclical fiscal policy, compris-
ing Large expenditure increases and tax cuts, in an attempt to maintain domes-
tic income levels. This combination of falling commodity prices and an expan-
sionary fiscal stance led, in 1981 and 1982, to very large fiscal and balance
of payments deficits; thus, in 1981-82, the current account deficit on the
balance of payments averaged 11% of GNP, while the overall public sector
deficit averaged 18% of GNP.  Overall, GDP growth averaged 6% p.a., and infla-
tion initially accelerated before falling to 6% in 1982.
7.        To finance these large deficits, the Government had to borrow
heavily, both domestically and abroad. Domestic borrowings were largely
noninflationary, from the Employees Provident Fund, the national oil company
and the commercial banks. Even so, the ratio of domestic debt to GNP grew
from about 37% to 48Z between 1980 and 1982. Increasing proportions of the
deficits had to be financed from abroad, and the level of disbursed public
external debt almost doubled between 1980 and 1982 (from 16% to 32Z of GNP);
there was, in addition, an important shift in the sources of borrowing, away
from project financing towards market borrowings. Because of the low levels
of external borrowing in the previous decade, this surge in the 1980-82 period
has not given rise to a high burden of debt service. As a proportion of
exports, debt service on private, public and publicly guaranteed MLT debt was
11.9% at the end of 1984.
8.        The unsustainability of defieits of the magnitude experienced in
1981 and 1982 has clearly been recognized by the Government, and a policy of
expenditure restraint was implemented through 1983-85 and affirmed in the 1986
budget. The overall public sector deficit halved from almost 24% of GNP in
1982 to below 12% in 1984. Both the Government and public enterprises regis-
tered equally sharp adjustments. In 1983 and 1984, government development
expenditures declined by 10% and 20%, respectively, and the government budge-
tary deficit fell from 16.5% of GNP to 8.3%. The reduction in the deficit of
public enterprises, on the other hand, came about from substantial increases
in internal savings which more than absorbed a continued expansion in develop-
ment expenditures.  To some extent, the impact on the external account of the
shrinking public sector deficit was offset by pri,vate investment expenditures
which rose by 17% in real terms during 1983-84.-2 Nonetheless, the balance of
payments current account deficit improved considerably from 14% of GNP in 1982
to 6% in 1984.
9.        In 1985., Malaysia's economic per9 rmance fell below expectations.
Declining international commodity prices and reductions in exports of manufac-
tures contributed to GDP growth rate below 3% (down from 7.6% the previous
year) and a widening of the external current account gap to about 7.0% of GNP.
2/   This was largely the consequence of higher outlays by quasi-public agen-
cies currently misclassified under the national accounts as part of the
private sector. According to the Government's classification, major off-
budget agencies like PETRONAS (the petroleum company) and HICOM (the
heavy industry corporation) are not included in the public sector.



-4-
The impact of lower exports on domestic economic activity and the consequent
closure or cutbacks in the manufacturing, mining and construction sectors
added substantially to the numbers of unemployed. In response, the Government
has introduced modest reflationary measures including a major new low-cost
housing scheme to be implemented over the next three years.
10.       Despite the recent reduction in oil prices, Malaysia could continue
to reduce its external and internal imbalance over the medium term, provided
the Government exercises restraint in public expenditures and promotes
exports, particularly of manufactures. With relatively heavy external
borrowing undertaken in recent years, and with continued, albeit declining,
external deficits till the turn of the decade, the debt-service ratio is
expected to rise initially and then stabilize at about 20%. The possible
impact of public investment cutbacks on growth prospects underscores the cri-
tical importance of ensuring greater efficiency in the public investment pro-
gram. In addition, new growth sources will need to replace those that pro-
pelled the economy forward in the 1970s. International price prospects for
rubber, palm oil, petroLeum and tin suggest that commodities production will
be of less importance to Malaysian economic growth than in the past. Even in
the manufacturing sector, Malaysia faces stiff competition from its populous
neighbors in international markets for labor-intensive products such as tex-
tiles and electronics assembly.
11.       The Fifth Five-Year Plan, which was recently introduced, includes a
strong emphasis on resource-based industrialization, the bulk of which would
need to be financed by the private sector. In preparing the ground for
encouraging greater private sector investment, the Government liberalized par-
tially the investment licensing laws and continued with its policy initiative
of privatizing some sectors of the economy. A cogent, comprehensive and well-
coordinated industrial and trade strategy will be central to Malaysia's eco-
nomic future and its ability both to compete internationally and transcend
sudden shocks inflicted by changes in the world economic environment.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA 3/
12.       The Bank has, to date, approved 65 loans to Malaysia, totaling
US$1,665.68 million for projects in agriculture, education, population, power,
water supply, sewerage, telecommunications, ports, railways, roads, and urban
transport. As of September 30, 1985, the effective loans to Malaysia held by
the Bank amounted to US$1,289.50 million; a total of 43 loans to Malaysia had
been fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans and IFC
investments.
13.       In recent years, the Bank's lending strategy towards Malaysia has
aimed at assisting the Government to alleviate poverty in the country. The
Government's thrust in this area has been twofold: first, to maintain a high
overall rate of growth for the economy and thus facilitate and encourage a
3/   See footnote 1.



-            -~~~~~5-
labor shift from low to higher wage occupations; second, to raise the produc-
tivity and incomes of farmers directly through a variety of agricultural
projects and programs as most poverty is concentrated in the rural areas. The
Bank has been associated with both aspects of this strategy - by assisting the
Governmert to overcome impediments to growth (for exam;le, by lending for
vocational education and for power) and also by lending for a long sequence of
agricultural projects. These have indeed enjoyed major success in raising the
incomes of beneficiaries, substantially increasing the foreign exchange earn-
ings of the country, and contributing to a high economy-wide growth.
14.       Malaysia's commitment to assist its low-income groups has not dimi-
nished in the wake of the recent economic difficulties. As noted, these
difficulties are in part structural, fostered by very rapid and successful
development, and in part financial, resulting from the recession and internal
countercyclical policies. Tackling these problems, which entail tight fiscal
and foreign exchange constraints likely to persist for some time, has become
the dominant objective of economic management.
15.       In its lending strategy, the Bank intends to continue lending to
agriculture and thus tackle poverty directly. At the same time, recognizing
the changed economic situation and prospects, and responding to a Government
request, the Bank is also assisting in sectors where serious structural prob-
lems or institutional deficiencies exist. Thus, the Bank plans to lend to
such sectors as education, transport, power, water supply, and industry, and
thus to make a more diversified as well as substantial contribution to
alleviating Malaysia's balance of payments and fiscal constraints over the
medium term.
16.       Although overall implementation of Bank-financed projects in
Malaysia has been satisfactory, it has in recent years been seriously affected
by the country's budgetary constraints. This has also been reflected in
project disbursements, which dropped from US$137 million in FY83 to
US$87 million in FY84 and to US$100 million in FY85. Disbursement per-
formance, measured in terms of the rates of actual disbursements to cumulative
undisbursed amounts, was 0.22 in FY83, 0.14 in FY84, and 0.17 in FY85
(compared to regional averages of 0.20, 0.21, and 0.22 respectively, in the
same years).
17.       Apart from lack of counterpart Eunding, the major problems causing
disbursement delays in Malaysia have been: delays in project start-up due to
manpower shortages and time-consuming land acquisition procedures, and the
limited capacity of the Public Works Department and the local contracting
industry. To improve the situation, the Bank has held various project imple-
mentation reviews with the central and implementing agencies in Kuala Lumpur
(the last one on November 1985). These reviews and the corrective action taken
by the agencies subsequently are having a positive impact on project implemen-
tation and disbursements. Further reviews will be undertaken with the
Malaysian authorities when necessary. It is also proposed to continue to
reinforce the implementation reviews with occasional seminars on disbursements
and procurement (the last disbursement seminar took place in September 1985,
and the next procurement seminar is scheduled for early 1986) for the benefit
of the implementing agencies.



-6-
18.       IFC has made six investments in Malaysia totaling US$21.19 mil-
lion. The total investments held by IFC, as of September 30, 1985, amounted
to US$12.50 million (Annex II).
19.       At end-1984, Malaysia's debt service ratio on private, public and
publicly guaranteed debt was about 11.9%. In the same year, debt service on
Bank obligations constituted about 8Z of total debt service. With the rapid
increase in market borrowings in the last three years, the proportion of Bank
disbursed debt in total disbursed debt has fallen from about 15X in 1979-80 to
less than 5% at end-1984. Various projections, on a variety of assumptions,
*          suggest that the Bank share in debt service and total disbursed debt of
Malaysia is likely to remain well below 1OZ through the rest of the decade.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The Transport System
20.       Maritime trade and ports policy is of particular importance to
Kalaysia. The monetary value of international trade amounts to a significant
share of the economy; in 1983, imports and exports amounted to 85% of GNP.
Malaysia's geography and concerns for national integration and the strengthen-
ing of economic and social ties between Peninsular and East Malaysia
accentuate this.
21.       Malaysia's 8Z p.a. GDP growth through the 1970s and the rapidly
expanding pubLic and quasi-public sector investment programs which continued
through much of the Fourth Malaysia Plan period (1981-85) were accompanied by
a high rate of growth in imports. Capital intensive investment with a high
foreign component, large volumes of project cargoes and a parallel increase in
consumer imports placed a heavy burden on the country's ports. During the
period 1978-80, import tonnage through peninsular ports increased annually by
an average of 8.3%. Exports, on the other hand, increased by only 3.4% with
palm oil and manufactured products as the principal source of export growth.
To support the increased demand for port facilities, over US$400 million was
invested in port development to raise overall capacity.
Transport Planning and Coordination
22.       Responsibility for administration of the transport sector is
dispersed among a number of ministries and agencies at both the federal and
state levels. The Ministry of Transport is responsible for all matters
relating to ports, railways and aviation, although the Malayan Railways,
Malaysian Airline System and the major port authorities operate with consider-
able autonomy. The Ministry of Public Works (J1R), which includes the
Malaysian Highway Authority (LLM), is responsible for the planning, design,
construction and maintenance of the federal road system. The State
Governments, responsible for 60% of the country's total network, independently
plan and execute their own road investments, often resulting in situations
where simultaneous shortages of capacity in one mode and surpluses in other
modes of transport exist in certain corridors. The Kinistry of Public



-7-
Enterprises is responsible for road transport regulation as far as licensing
is concerned; the Department of Forestry regulates sizes and weights of timber
trucks, while the Federal Police is responsible for enforcement of traffic and
safety matters relating to road transport. A number of autonomous ports are
involved in multimodal operations requiring coordination with road and rail
transport which is often difficult under the present arrangement.
23.       Transport planning under such a dispersed  administrative structure
is difficult at best. As a result, the Economic Planning Unit (EPU) in the
Prime Minister's Department has taken on the role of reviewing all Federal
government investments and in the case of transport, coordinating among modes.
However, as the transport sector has grown more complex, the EPU has not been
able to keep up with the demands imposed on it due to the lack of adequate
numbers of suitably qualified specialists (e.g., to evaluate technical design
standards, engineering feasibilities, etc.). The Bank has initiated a sector
dialogue with the Government with focus on the planning and coordinating func-
tions within a line ministry, preferably the Ministry of Transport. The
National Ports Study financed under the Sabah-Sarawak Road Project (Loan 2291-
MA) and expected to begin shortly, will address this issue as it relates to
maritime transport. The Government agreed during negotiations to consult the
Bank prior to making investments in new port developments of more than M$10
million until the study is completed. A comprehensive National Transport
Review was carried out in 1968 with some updating in 1978. The Government has
now decided to commission by 1988 a further new comprehensive review of land
transport, focusing on the road/rail intermodal issues. This review will also
examine in-depth the role of the Ministry of Transport as it pertains to over-
all planning and coordination in the sector, with a view to relieving EPU of
operational aspects of transport planning and coordination.
24.       Transport investments by the Federal Government have recently
averaged some 18Z of its development expenditures. Covernment has had some
difficulty in controlling expenditures once projects have gotten underway. In
the Mid-Term Review of its 1981-B5 Development Plan, Government was obliged to
provide additional allocations to complete contracted works started earlier as
more than the full original allocations for the five-year period had been
exhausted. Allocations under the proposed Fifth Malaysia Plan for the trans-
port sector are 50% greater than under the Fourth Plan. Expenditures for
ports, however, have been sharply reduced to only 27% of those under the
Fourth Plan.
Bank InvoLvement in the Subsector
25.       To date, the Bank has financed two port projects in Malaysia (Loan
774-MA, US$16.1 million and Loan 1580-MA, US$13.0 million) both of which were
in the East Malaysia State of Sabah. Both operations have been satisfactorily
completed. The proposed project will be the first lending operation to a port
in PeninsuLar Malaysia. The project performance audit report (No. 2785, dated
December 28, 1979) for the First Sabah Ports project found that, notwithstand-
ing cost overruns and implementation delays 4the project assisted the Borrower
in improving its financial position and strengthening its management, in addi-
tion to providing the planned physical infrastructure. The reestimated rate
of return at the completion of the project showed an improvement over the
4/ Preparation for the proposed project is well advanced and thus the Kelang Port
Authority is poised to implement the project successfully within the four-year
period envisaged.



appraisal estimate. The Project Completion Report for the Second Sabah Port
Project (May 1, 1985) noted that because of considerable delays in completion
and cost overruns the reestimated rate of return, while still acceptable, was
about half of the appraisal estimate. The Project Performance Audit Report is
under preparation.
Ports Subsector
26.       Malaysia has a total of 55 major and secondary ports distributed as
follows: Peninsular Malaysia, 25; Sabah, 17; and Sarawak, 13. In Peninsular
Malaysia, all ports are under federal jurisdiction except for jetties approved
by the district offices of individual states. The majer ports of Kelang,
Penang and Johore are controlled by statutory authorities. In contrast, man-
agement of ports in Sabah and Sarawak is delegated to the Marine Departments
of the respective State governments and several statutory bodies. The Sabah
Port Authority manages Kota Kinabalu and all ports except Labuan. In Sarawak,
Kuching has its own port authority and all ports on the Rajang River are
controlled by the Rajang Port Authority.
27.       Most of Malaysia's import-export trade is transported by sea.  The
growth of the economy in the 1970s resulted in a 140% increase in the number
of ships calling at Peninsular Malaysia ports, from 11,073 in 1970 to 32,140
in 1983. Port throughput increased at more than 9% per annum during the
1970s, and in 1983 was on the order of 42 million tons, of which 28 million
tons, or two-thirds, were handled in Peninsular Malaysia. Penang and Kelang
are the two Largest ports in Malaysia, having handled 5.5 million and 8.8 mil-
lion tons, respectively, in 1984. The ports of Sabah and Sarawak together
handle slightly less than 35Z of the total port traffic, the bulk of this
being timber for export. No overall traffic growth has taken place since
1979, but a restructuring of traffic patterns towards the larger ports has
occurred.
28.       During the first part of the Fourth Malaysia Plan, 1981-83, over M$l
billion ringgit of federal funds was invested in port development. Of this
amount, M$856 millior was for the Ministry of Transport budget expenditures on
major and minor ports. This accounted for 26.3% of the Federal budget expen-
diture for transportation. The remainder was for separate items in the Minis-
try of Public Works and State Marine Department budgets in East Malaysia.
Over the 1980-90 period, M$2.2 billion in total funds including Federal grants
and Port Authority loans and reserves are either committed or budgeted for
ongoing projects. Of this amount M$1.16 billion are Federal grant funds.
With projects completed since 1980 and ongoing expansion plans, port invest-
ment could exceed M$3.2 billion in the 1980-90 period.
29.       Expenditures for all modes of transportation accounted for approxi-
mately 10% of total development expenditures over the last two five-year
development plans. Over this ten-year period, M$8 billion were budgeted for
transportation, with ports and maritime activities accounting for 22% of the
sector expenditures, or slightly more than 2% of the total development budget
for Malaysia. Budget expenditures for the major ports in Peninsular Malaysia
represented about 37% of the Ministry of Transport development budget, amount-
ing to M$233.6 million in 1976-80 and M$599 million for the 1981-85 period.
For the 1986-91 period expenditures on ports are estimated to be about 4X of
the Ministry's development budget.



-9-
Administration
30.       For purposes of administration, Malaysian national ports are classi-
fied as major and minor. Major ports have been established as statutory
bodies and are operated as semiautonomous port authorities. However, they
must obtain approval for annual budgets and expenditures over $100,000 and
submit financial statements to Government through the Ministry of Transport.
The Ministry appoints port authority executives and board members, and
approves tariffs and bylaws put forward by the Authorities. Minor Peninsular
Malaysian ports come under the direct and central control of the Marine
Department of the Federal Ministry of Transport.
31.       The ports in Sarawak and in Sabah are under State Ministry supervi-
sion. In Sabah, the seven most important ports are administered by the Sabah
Port Authority which is under the aegis of the Sabah State Ministry of Works
and Public Utilities. In Sarawak, the State Ministry of Communications and
Works is responsible for three Authorities which encompass all the major ports
of the State.
Operations
32.       Port Authorities are responsible for the day to day administration
of the lands and waters within their working areas including approaches and
anchorages gazetted under the Merchant Shipping Ordinance. Their duties
generally include provision of pilots and towage service, control of vessel
movements within port areas, cargo handling and collection of port charges,
and the maintenance and implementation of capital projects.
33.       Financial responsibilities and objectives of Malaysian port authori-
ties are 1.aid out in the Port Authorities Act of 1963. Port revenues are
expected to cover operating and overhead expense and service debt incurred in
capital improvement programs. It has generally been the policy that each port
authority should be financially self-sufficient and operate without subsidy.
However, grants and soft loans are given by the Government for new or develop-
ing ports.
Port Kelang
(i) Facilities
34.       The Kelang Port Authority (LPK) handles the largest share of the
country's cargo tonnage.  Located 40 kilometers west of the capital of Kuala
Lumpur, the port serves the major concentration of industrial and commercial
activity area of the country centered in the Kelang Valley. The Port Kelang
complex consists of the older South Port and the more recently established
North Port where the container terminal is located.
35.       North Port occupies an area of 248 hectares with 17 berths, 6
transit sheds and 19 godowns. Containers are handled at berths 8, 9 and 10;
berths 11-14 are general cargo berths handling mainly import cargo with bulk
sugar handled at berth 12. Berths 16-21 handle break-bulk cargo but are
constructed to handle container traffic in the future. Liquid bulk commodi-



- 10 -
ties are handlad at the dolphin berths 22 and 23 and dry bulk at berths 24 and
25. The dry bulk terminal has 13.2 hectares of land for mainly fertilizer,
animal feed and salt. The liquid bulk terminal has 19 hectares of land to
handle vegetable oils, chemicals and petroleum products.
36.       South Port occupies an area of 48 hectares with 4 ocean and 3
coastal berths and 8 godowns. About 18 hectares are available for general
cargo; the rest is leased out for liquid bulk storage, wheat silos and other
warehousing. Liquid bulk storage provides for 210,000 tonnes of liquid
products including vegetable oil, latex, petroleum and chemicals.
(ii) Operations
37.       The largest port in Malaysia, Port Kelang accounts for a quarter of
the Peninsular Malaysia trade volume. Port Kelang handled 8.8 million tonnes
in 1984, with imports accounting for 5.5 million of this total. Traffic has
grown since 1980 at an average annual rate of 5.5% with import volumes
increasing at 8.4Z. This pattern of traffic growth is expected to continue
with imports continuing to grow faster annually at almost 7% versus exports at
4.5Z per year.
38.       In 1983, Port Kelang handled about 1.2 million tonnes of cargo in
the East-West Malaysia trade; this amounted to 15Z of the port throughput. Of
this, about 9Z was containerized. As with international trade, container
traffic to East Malaysia has been the fastest growing cargo component.
39.       Port Kelang accounts for a large share of the traffic in the Kelang-
Petaling Jaya-Kuala Lumpur corridor, generating 34Z of the truck destinations
and 22% of origins within the Kelang urban area. While the port hinterland is
considered to take in Perak to the north, Temerloh and Gemas to the east and
Seremban/Malacca to the South, over half the truck generated trips are con-
fined to the Kelang Valley-Kuala Lumpur metropolitan area.
40.       In 1980, 22% of the conventional cargo through Port Kelang was
containerized; by 1984, this share had increased to 32%. Of those cargos
which lend themselves to containerization, the Authority estimates that 30%
were containerized in 1980, increasing to over 50% by 1984. By 1990, LPK
estimates that 75% of containerizable commodities could move in containers or
40% of all conventional cargoes.
41.       In 1984, the container terminal achieved a throughput of 247,000
TEUs. By 1990, the Authority expects this flow to increase to 510,000 TEUs
which would almost reach estimated wharf capacity based on one additional
crane at the present berths, but exceed the existing terminal area layout
capacity. With the present four cranes and cargo handling system, LPK calcu-
lates present wharf capacity at about 340,000 TEUs per year allowing for
seasonal peaks. LPK estimates that the terminal could cope with the 350,000
TEUs per year expected for 1988 by speeding container clearance through the
yard and increasing stacking area and height. Thus, expansion of container
facilities is necessary by 1988 and the proposed project addresses this
requirement.



L 1 -
42.       Access to the port is both by road and rail.  However, most of the
landside movements into and out of the port are by road. For containers, only
12Z are actually handled by the railways and most of these are empties. GOM
feels that this is too low and could be improved. A study was commissioned to
look into the operational and financial feasibility of increasing Malayan
Railway's (MR) role and identify the bottlenecks which currently hamper it
from handling more containers. The consultant's report has recently been
completed and GOM has requested the Bank to fund the implementation of some of
the urgent short term measures which would assist the MR improve its handling
of containers in the Port Kelang - Kuala Lumpur corridor.
43.       With increasing pressures to improve efficiency at its major ports,
GOM has embarked on a privatization program for selected operations. Because
of the critical role it plays in the external trade of Malaysia, Port Kelang
has been chosen to be the first case. The Government of Malaysia invited bids
for private sector operation of its container terminal and recently selected
an operator. Based on recently completed negotiations, a separate company was
set up in which the private operator will hold 51X and LPK 49% of the
equity. The assets consist of all the movable equipment of the existing
terminal but exclude land, wharves and the container stacking area which will
be retained by LPK. The terms include a minimum throughout charge plus
supplemental charges for volumes exceeding the base volume in addition to the
initial capital investment for the 51% share by the private operator.
(iii) Organization, Management and Staffing
44.       As with other major port authorities in Malaysia, Port Kelang was
established under the Port Authorities Act of 1963. Prior to that date, the
port was administered by the Malayan Railway with operations dating back to
1901. It was known as Port Swettenham until 1972. The Authority operates
through a board comprising a chairman appointed by the Prime Minister and nine
members appointed by the Minister of Transport. Members of the board serve
for a one year term and are eligible for reappointment.
45.       Policies of the Authority are formulated by three committees whose
members are from the board: (a) a service committee deals with appointments,
promotions and terms of service of senior officers; (b) a Planning Committee
decides on major port development projects; and (c) a finance committee deals
with the annual recurrent and capital estimates. In addition, a port consul-
tative committee consisting of the chairman, the general manager and other
persons as may be appointed by the Minister of Transport has been set up to
advise the Authority. Under the Port Authorities Act, the Authority has to
consult the committee on matters pertaining to major changes in the tariff
rates, major expansion and deveLopment plans of the part and any other matters
as may be directed by the Minister of Transport.
46.       The Chief Executive of the Authority is the general manager who is
assisted by the Assistant General Managers of operations, administration,
planning, staff and finances. The LPK is the largest single employer in the
Kelang urban area with 6,455 employees of which 136 are officers. Stevedores
who are part of the Authority staff number about 3,700. Port-related industry
and service activities are estimated to employ an additional 3,000 workers.



- 12 -
Direct and indirect employment generated by the port accounts for about 10 of
the Kelang district labor force.
(iv) Training
47.       The Port Authority's Training Institute, while it is adequately run,
provides instructions in a limited number of basic skills to operating and
management personnel. It does not provide training in facility and equipment
maintenance, computer use, inventory control, job planning, cargo planning and
various management skills from information systems use and design to financial
and strategic planning that are required by a modern port. The Port's
training program should provide for continuous upgrading with changes in port
technical and operating methods. The role of the training institute needs to
be expanded to give it the capability of offering courses, programs, facili-
ties and equipment for training in the areas mentioned above.
(v) Marketing
48.       Port Kelang has  a small commercial department which is ill equipped
to deal on a daily basis with the competitive pressures thrust upon it by
other regional ports and competing modes of transport. Technical assistance
is needed to help the port achieve better market penetration, visibility and
publicity; otherwise it risks losing its market share. Areas which need
special assistance include data acquisition, advertising, trade and market
relations. As part of its marketing effort, the port needs to be cognizant of
the downstream impact of the hauliers, forwarders and customs operations in
order to identify critical bottlenecks which affect its operations but for
which the port is not directly responsibLe. Only then can it prepare an
action program and seek government and private sector assistance to improve
the total transport services from shipside to final destination and assure
that maximum benefits are derived by Malaysia from containerization.
(vi) Management Information System
49.       Port Kelang was among the first ports in the region to introduce
PORTHIS, an integrated management information system developed by ESCAP. The
system has been implemented in the financial areas and partially in the
operating areas but remains essentially a manual system which does not provide
real time data output and feedback information for management to properly
control operations. Increasing containerized and bulk cargo traffic will
require mGre real time port operations management in order to achieve the
objectives of the port in terms of traffic performance levels. Assistance
will be required to help LPK to automate this process and will be addressed in
the proposed project.



- 13
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
50.       The phenomenal growth of container traffic at Port Kelang in the mid
to late 1970s led the Government to construct new general cargo facilities at
the north port as existing conventional berths were being converted to
container use. The construction of berths 16-21 was completed in 1983; these
were designed to be used eventually also for the handling of containers.  The
rapid growth of containerization led the port to anticipate, as early as 1977,
that additional container handling facilities would be .required in the mid to
late 1980s, thereby reducing the available facilities to handle conventional
and bulk liquid cargoes. Consultants were engaged in 1977 to review the
further expansion at Port KelsaAyg and recommend a new site since it was felt
that the physical limits on tae north port facilities would be reached with
the expansion of berths 16 ts 25. SeveraL sites were examined in the context
of the long term needs of the port and a site on the island of Lumut (Pulau
Lumut) was selected. Consultants were appointed in 1980 to carry out a
feasibility study of new general cargo and bulk liquid facilities on Pulau
Lumut. Their study, completed in 1981, anticipated that new general cargo
facilities would be required as early as 1986. In the interim, the LPK
acquired the necessary land on Pulau Lumut and undertook the reclamation works
on the site in anticipation of an early approval of the project by Government.
However, as a result of the ongoing worldwide recession, Government wisely
decided to adopt a wait and see attitude and the construction of new
facilities was postponed.
51.       In the meantime, containerization continued to increase but to the
detriment of general cargo growth which declined somewhat. The port revised
its forecasts and further postponed the date at which the new facilities would
be required. In reviewing the productivity indicators at Port Kelang, Govern-
ment became concerned that improvements were slow and that costly capital
improvements were being proposed to increase the throughput. At the same
time, Government began considering the private operation of the port or parts
of it as a solution to increasing efficiency. These factors led the Govern-
ment to delay further the development of Pulau Lumut and to construct as a
first phase one additional berth at the north port and other minor improve-
ments to maximize the use of existing facilities and improve productivity.
52.       The project was prepared by the Kelang Port Authority.  Appraisal of
the project was completed in July 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington
from March 19 to March 21. The Malaysian delegation was headed by
Mr. Nik Najib Husain. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 6010-MA) dated
February 7, 1986 is being circulated separately. Supplementary project data
are given in Annex III of this report.



- 14 -
Rationale for Bank Support and Project Objectives
53.       The proposed project would be the Bank's first lending operation in
the port subsector in Peninsular Malaysia and would help establish a dialogue
with Government on improving the operations at Port Kelang specifically and in
the maritime sector in Malaysia in general. Considerable dialogue has been
established in the preparation of this project and in providing recommenda-
tions to Government in maritime sector matters for the preparation of the
Fifth Malaysia Plan.
54.       The proposed project's objective is to accommodate the expected
growth in traffic at Port Kelang into the early 1990s by providing the
, Authority with the capacity, technical capability and effectiveness to handle
future traffic efficiently. Although it is strong financially, the Kelang
Port Authority has sought Bank assistance through this project mainly for
institution building objectives, to strengthen and give it the capability to
compete with Singapore. As the shift from conventional to container traffic
accelerates, the Kelang Port Authority wishes to be able to accommodate this
traffic as efficiently as possible, thus enabling it to realize the full bene-
fits of containerization and increased port productivity through faster cargo
handling. In addition, the project will allow the Government to derive
maximum benefits from the privatized container terminal and will assist the
Government's desire to redirect transshipment cargo to Malaysian ports.
Project Description
55.       The project will comprise:
(a) Civil works:
(i)  provision of 265m of wharf berth convertible for use in
handling containers or general cargo;
(ii) construction of a marine base including a small pier and
berthing facilities for the LPK's tugs and pilot launches and a
marine administration building and operations tower;
(iii) provision of breasting dolphins;
(iv) demolition of existing faciLities at berth 15; and
(v) paving of the backup area behind berths 15 to 18.
(b) Technical assistance and training: provision of technical
assistance staff for (i) port training, (ii) port marketing; and
(iii) management information system, as well as the provision of
equipment, materials and computer hardware and software.
(c) A pilot component to fund short term measures to improve the move-
ment of containers by rail.



- 15 -
Civil Works Construction
56.       The project will consist of the first phase of the future expansion
of facilities at Port Kelang, eventually to be followed by the development of
Pulau Lumut probably in the mid to late 1990's. The approach proposed for the
first phase involves construction of a convertible container/general cargo
berth of about 265 meters between the current berths 14 and 16 at the North
Port, currently being used as a tug mooring and marine department facility.
Since an abandoned wood chip facility located in that space is no longer of
use, this frees the space for berth development. The marine base and tug
mooring facility would be relocated to an area at the south end of the North
Port adjacent to berth 8. This will involve the construction of a jetty
measuring about 156 m x 11 m and a marine administration building (1800.2) at
the south end of the North Port. The project would also include the provision
of breasting dolphins to facilitate the berthing of oil tankers of different
sizes and paving of the back of the port area behind berths 15 to 18.
57.       The advantage of constructing berth 15 is that it would provide
additional container and/or general cargo capacity by 1989 without any reduc-
tion in general cargo handling capacity during the construction period. It
would, in addition, permit the eventual or phased transfer of container
handling facilities to berths 16 to 21, thereby providing a five berth
container terminaL with a more effective layout and access than the current
facility which would then revert to the bandling of general cargo. This
approach has the benefit of delaying the construction of the Pulau Lumut
facilities by about five to eight years, resulting in substantial savings to
the Government and the Port Authority. Since the site for the proposed future
development on Pulau Lumut is on an island, the delay would allow the
necessary road and bridges to be constructed before the port works, thereby
adding to the cost savings compared to the original plan in which all civil
works were to be built simultaneously.
Technical Assistance
58.       The success of the proposed port development depends not only on the
physical port works but on developing an efficient inland system for container
handling. Currently, only two road hauliers are licensed to carry containers
to and from Port Kelang and while the railway is not restricted from handling
containers, it is barred from operating trucks and as such cannot provide the
door-to-door service needed to compete with road transport, thereby placing it
at a disadvantage in competing for traffic. The Government recognizes the
need to provide additional service and agreed during negotiations to a
marketing study which would focus on the impediments to the efficient inland
movement of containers by road and implement its findings, including
deregulation of the road haulage of containers (see para. 60ii). The proposed
project also includes about US$2.6 million for a railway component. It will
assist MR to implement on a pilot basis the recommendations of a recently
completed consultant's study which reviewed MR's potential role in the
handling of containers in general, and in the Port Kelang-Kuala Lumpur
corridor in particular.



- 16 -
59.       With the rapidly expanding role uf Port Kelang in the past five
years, the need for an improved institutional framework has surfaced. With
competitiveness from other ports such as Penang and Johore in Malaysia as well
as Singapore, the acuteness of the institutional shortcomings has been accen-
tuated even more. As well as providing some additional port capacity, the
project's main objective is to strengthen LPK's institutional framework by
equipping it with the necessary skills, controls and management systems
required to operate its various facilities efficiently as well as attract
additional traffic, reverse the diversion of traffic, reduce operating costs
and improve the quality of port services provided.
60.       In order to fulfill the objectives of strengthening LPK's institu-
tional framework, the project includes a technical assistance component to
strengthen the port's marketing department, upgrade its management information
system and broaden its training program. To achieve this, a total of 122 man-
months of consultant assistance over a 3 year period would be provided in the
following areas:
(i) Training
Technical assistance would be provided to evaluate the training
needs, the required upgrading of facilities, the design of programs
and courses, the procurement of equipment and teaching materials,
the training of instructors and trainers and the development of
tests, qualifications and other tools for measuring training perfor-
mance.
(ii) Marketing
Technical assistance would be provided to the Marketing Department
to improve its marketing effort to potential users of its facili-
ties. Experts would be provided to assist in trade and market rela-
tions, advertising and data acquisition. Consulting services would
also be provided to assist the marketing department to carry out a
study to identify and document the bottlenecks which impede the
smooth flow of goods into and out of the port, prepare an action
program and make recommendations to Government on specific steps
which must be taken by it on the private sector to remove the iden-
tified bottlenecks. During negotiations, it was agreed that the
study would be completed by December 31, 1986 and that Government
would review an action program for implementation of the study's
recommendations with the Bank by June 30, 1987.
(iii) Management Information System
Technical assistance will be provided to LPK for design of the
necessary software, file/data and control systems to automate its
management information system. Funds will also be provided to
purchase the necessary hardware, its installation, assist in the
data collection and calibration of the system.



- 17 -
Railway Pilot Component
61.       The proposed project includes about US$3.1 million to assist the
Malayan Railway (MR) to implement on a pilot basis the findings of a just
completed review by consultants of containerization by rail. In this report,
the consultants recommended that MR eventually establish 8 inland terminals
for the handling of containers. In view of the critical need to improve the
movement of containers between Port Kelang and Kuala Lwumpur, Government opted
to test the unit train concept and refine it before implementing the proposal
on a national scale. While a new container terminal will eventually be
required for Kuala Lumpur the pilot project will use the existing yard at
Brickfields, on the outskirts of the city center. Some improvements such as
additional surfacing, signaling, and track alterations will be required as
will be the purchase of two heavy duty front end loaders equipped to handle
containers. In addition, this component includes technical assistance and
training in intermodal operations to assist MR staff to implement the service.
These short term improvements are expected to allow the MR to increase its
handling of containers to and from the port considerably beyond the current
12% of total container traffic to and from Port Kelang. Government is keen on
carrying out this pilot case to determine its feasibility and help offset the
requirement for additional road capacity in the corridor.
Project Execution
62.       The LPK will be responsible for implementing the  proposed project,
including finalizing the engineering documents for the civil works. The
Authority's Engineering Department which is solely responsible for new works
is composed of three engineers (including the chief engineer), four technical
engineering assistants (3 years of university level courses) and ten inspec-
tors of works. They have successfully carried out the design and supervision
of berths 1, 2 and 7a in the South Port and berths 22 and 23 in the North Port
and will be responsible under the project to prepare bid documents, carr out
the evaluation of bids and supervise the contractors in carrying out the
works. During negotiations LPK agreed to furnish progress reports, to main-
tain project accounts and to prepare a project completion report. The MR will
be responsible for implementation of the railway component.
Project Cost and Financing
63.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$34.91 million with
a foreign exchange component of US$18.80 million, which would be financed
under the proposed loan.
64.       The base cost estimate was computed using December 1985 prices.
Duties and taxes, estimated at US$3.30 million, are included in the base esti-
mate. The base cost reflects current prices for materials and labor, and
prices cited in bids received recently for comparable work. The provision for
contingencies allows for (a) physical variation of 10% in civil works and
engineering services; and (b) annual price escalation of 5% for local costs
and 7% in 1986, 1987, 7.5% in 1988 and 7.7% in 1989 for foreign costs. The
estimate for the technical assistance program, which includes training, mar-
keting and management information systems assistance provides for 122 man-



- 18 -
months of specialist services, 10 man-months of overseas internships, and pur-
chase of computer hardware, software development, equipment and training
materials.
65.       The local costs of the project would be met entirely from LPK's
internally generated funds. For the MR loan, the local costs would be met by
the Government. The proposed Bank funding of US$18.80 million would cover the
entire foreign exchange component which is 59Z of the estimated project costs,
net of taxes and duties. A Bank loan of US$16.7 million would be made to LPK
with government guarantee, for 15 years including three years of grace. A
separate loan of US$2.1 million would be made to the Government on the same
terms for implementation of the railway component with MR as the executing
agency.
Procurement
66.       Procurement for construction of berth 15, the backup area behind
berths 15 to 18 and breasting dolphins for the bulk liquid terminal valued at
about US$25.96 milLion, would be awarded on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Procurement.
These works would be put to tender in two packages: the first one would
include the demolition of the existing mooring facilities at berth 15, the
construction of the new berth 15 and the breasting dolphins for the bulk
liquid terminal and the second one would comprise the paving of the back-up
area behind berths 15 to 18. The facilities associated with the construction
of the marine base, including construction of a new tug and pilot berthing
pier and construction of a marine administration building would be procured in
two lots by local competitive bidding (LCB) which is open to foreign contrac-
tors. The total value of these two separate contracts is estimated at about
US$3.72 million to be procured consecutively. Procurement of computer equip-
ment and software associated with the training, marketing and MIS will be -
procured locally. Equipment and materials to be procured for the railway
pilot component will be subject to international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank guidelines. For the railway component a margin of pre-
ference equal to 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of imported goods or the actual
custom duties and import taxes, whichever is less, would be allowed for domes-
tic manufacturers. The key procurement information is sunmmurized below:



- 19 -
PROCUREMENT SUMMARY
(US$ million)
Project elements                  Procurement method              Total
ICB       LCB       Other           Cost
Civil Works
Berth 15                    21.36                               21.36
(10.89)                             (10.89)
Backup area                  3.77                                3-77
(1.92)                              (1.92)
Oil Berth                    0.83                                0.83
(0.42)                              (0.42)
Marine Base                            3.72                      3.72
(1.83)                   (1.83)
Equipment                                         0.74           0.74
(0.31)        (0.31)
Subtotal              25.96       3.72       0.74          30.42
(13.23)    (1.83)     (0.31)        (15.37)
Engineering Surveys                               0.51           0.51
and Investigations                             (0.37)         (0.37)
Technical Assistance                               0.84          0.84
and Training                                    (0.84)        (0.84)
Railway Pilot                0.92                  2.22          3.14
(0.92)               (1.30)         (2.22)
Total                  26.88      3.72       4.31          34.91
(14.15)    (1.83)     (2.82)        (18.80)
Notes: 1. Amounts shown for each project component include physical and
price contingencies.
2. Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank Loan including a prorated share of unallocated funds.
67.       Draft documents and contracts for works in excess of US$2.5 million
will be subject to prior review by the Bank. The Bank Guidelines will be
followed for the procurement of consulting services, and all agreements for
such services will be entered into under terms of reference and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursements
68.       For the LPK loan, disbursement would be at the rate of: (1) 47% of
total expenditures for civil works and buildings; and (b) 100% of total expen-
ditures for consulting services, technical assistance, training, fellowships
and computer equipment. For the MR loan, disbursements would be at the rate



- 20 -
as follows: (i) 34% of total expenditures for works; and (ii) 100% of total
expenditures for equipment and consulting services. For civil works and the
railway component, disbursement would be against normal documentation. For
equipment, engineering services, technical assistance and training,
disbursements for contracts valued below US$100,000 would be made against
statements of expenditures. An amount of up to US$1.2 million is proposed to
be retroactively financed under the loans for expenditures incurred after
January 1, 1986, to meet part of the costs of the technical assistance and
training, the construction of the marine base and the railway pilot component.
Financial Performance
69.       The port's financial position at the end of 1984 was strong.
Approximately 33% of its assets were in highly liquid current assets and it
had working capital in excess of M$164 million. Since 98% of its current
assets were in the form of cash and cash equivalents, its acid test ratio was
3.4:1. The port generated approximately M$66 million in cash from its opera-
tions in 1984, and the average annual amount of cash generated from operations
from 1981 to 1984 was approximately M$58 million. These internally generated
funds were sufficient to finance the port's four year M$221 million expansion
program, and to increase the investment portfolio from approximately M$105
million in 1981 to almost M$219 million in 1984. The rate of return earned on
fixed assets in operation (historic values) was over 17% in 1984. While the
current value of the fixed assets is not known, LPK has agreed to carry out an
asset revaluation. At negotiations agreement was reached that LPK will
revalue all fixed assets no later than December 31, 1987.
70.       For the five years ended in 1984, the port's operating revenues
increased at a 4% annual rate. This growth, which was less than the 5.5%
growth in the port's total tonnage, was primarily attributable to the increase
in container traffic. In 1980, revenue from containers represented 23% of the
port's operating revenue, but in 1984 it represented 36%. During the same
period, revenue from ship and cargo dues increased marginally while revenues
from cargo storage and stevedoring declined. A variance analysis indicates
that between 1980 and 1984 the port's revenues increased by M$39 million as
the result of volume increases, but that the revenues declined by M$11 million
due to price and mix changes. Since the 1975 tariff structure is still in
effect, the reduction in the effective rates earned by the port is attributed
to the change in cargo mix resulting from an increase in container traffic.
71.       The port's working expenses were carefully controlled for the five
years ended in 1984 and, as a result, they only grew at an annual rate of
1.6%. There are two principaL reasons for this minimal growth. The first
reason is that management was successful in its attempts to improve the port's
operating efficiency. This improved efficiency was demonstrated by the fact
that LfRe ship turnaround times improved for each of the last four years. The
second reason for the minimal growth in working expenses relates to the
increased use of containers in the port. The combination of the port's
increased efficiency and its increased use of containers resulted in reduc-
tions in expenses from operations and stevedoring, in absolute terms, from
1980 to 1984. This reduction in the operations and stevedoring expenses was
offset by increases in maintenance, security and administration expenses,



- 21 -
which collectively grew at an annual rate of 10.8% per year. The majority of
this growth was in administration, which grew at an annual rate of 27%.
72.       The present tariff structure at Port Kelang is now, and has been,
sufficient to recover all its operating and nonoperating expenses. No tariff
increase is proposed at this time due to the port's strong financial position
and because modifications to the port's accounting systems are required before
any meaningful adjustments can be made. Management is working with a
consultant to implement an integrated accounting and budgeting system
utilizing profit centers rather than the current cost centers.  Agreement was
reached, at negotiation, that management would use this new accounting system
to determine the cost to perform its various services and then to recommend
changes to its tariff structure to recover those costs. These recommendations
will be submitted to the Bank no later than December 31, 1987.
73.       Projections are that the total tonnage through the port will
increase at a 6.3% annual rate from 1984 to 1990, but the port's operating
revenues and expenses are projected to increase at annual rates of 5.2% and
6.9% respectively. This forecast assumes that the effective rate charged per
ton to cargo will continue to decline because of improvements in ship
turnaround times and increased efficiencies in cargo handling. The prime
cause for these improvements is that containerized cargo as a percentage of
total cargo is projected to increase from 32Z in 1984 to over 46% in 1990.
Since operating expenses are projected to increase more rapidly than operating
revenues, there is a projected deterioration in the operating ratio from 65.6Z
in 1984 to 72.4% in 1990. At negotiations, agr-2ement was reached that the
port would maintain an operating ratio not to exceed 73% for fiscal years
beginning after December 31, 1987.
74.       The port's projected balance sheet remains strong due to the large
amount of cash generated from operations. Internally generated cash is
projected to be in excess of M$63 million per year from 1986 to 1990. This
internally generated cash will enable the port to pay fr all of its capital
spending and still increase its short-term investments  By the end of 1990,
the port is projected to have an acid test ratio of 4.8:1, a long term debt to
equity ratia of 0.8:1, and a debt service coverage of 2.6 times.
75.       The port has an internal audit staff consisting of 14 people who
report directly to the general manager, and the Government maintains a staff
of eight auditors on the premises on a year-round basis. The Government
performs an annual audit which consists of a 100% examination of the port's
disbursements and a thorough review of management's compliance with generally
accepted accounting principles, the applicable government regulations ard the
Statutory Bodies Act of 1980. The port has consistently received a clean
opinion from the Government, and their annual financial statements are usually
prepared by August of the subsequent year. At negotiation, agreement was
reached that the LPK will provide the Bank with certified financial statements
and the reports and other materials issued by the auditor within nine months
after the end of the port's fiscal year.
5/ The Bank's role is described in paragraph 54.



- 22 -
Benefits and Economic Return
76.       The rapidly increasing rate of containerization at Port Kelang will
require the addition of container berths by 1992 which will be provided by
converting existing berths 16 to 18 (currently being used for general cargo
but built to container standards) thereby effectively reducing general cargo
handling capacity by 25%, assuming a limiting berth utilization of 85%. Under
these circumstances, shortages of general cargo handling capacity wilL
commence in 1987 and progressively worsen. The construction of the additional
berth at the North Port by 1988 would, as an interim measure, help reLieve the
anticipated congestion and reduce cargo handling costs. The benefits will
flow mainly to container cargo and general cargo traffic.
77.       The economic evaluation of the project is based on a comparison of
costs involved in handling forecast traffic with the project conditions with
those involved in the "without" situation. The "without" situation used in
the analysis assumes that a number of general cargo berths will be converted
to container use in 1988, 1992 and 1995, thereby substantially reducing
general cargo capacity. In the "with" situation, it is assumed that the new
berth 15 facilities will be operational by 1989.
78.       The principal benefits quantified for the rate of return caLcula-
tions include: (a) reductions in ship waiting times; (b) redu%tions in ship
service times by the use of improved facilities; and (c) reducticns in damage
to cargo. The savings in ship waiting time attributed to the project will
commence in 1989 and are calculated on the basis of cost per ship-day for each
type of vessel and the pattern of ship types and sizes handled at the port.
79.       Among the benefits that have not been taken into account are the
reduction in cargo handling unit costs and the postponement of investment on
new facilities at Pvlau Lumut which would be substantial.  In addition, no
attempt has been made to quantify the broad effect that improved facilities
will have on the country's international trade. For these reasons, the
economic justification presented herein is conservative.
80.       The efficiency of operations at Port Kelang is very dependent on
downstream activities which affect the movement of goods, particularly those
that are containerized, into and out of the port itself. These include the
customs and forwarding operations and the transport operations involved in the
actual physical movement of goods to and from consignees within the port's
hinterland. The technical assistance program included in the project will
assist the port to improve its marketing, identify the critical bottlenecks
which affect the movement of containers to and from the port and assist the
Authority improve its management information system to provide better real
time data to support its management operations and marketing functions. In
addition, technical assistance will be provided to improve and strengthen the
Authority's training program. These measures are all intended to improve the
efficiency of the port and assist in the removal of bottlenecks which directly
impact on port operations. While they have not been quantified in the econo-
mic evaluation, they are expected to yield substantial benefits. They are in
fact perceived by Government to be the major justification for the project.



- 23 -
Project Risks
81.       The economic return from the project investments has been estimated
on the basis of costs and benefits quantified on the basis of the assumptions
presented in the foregoing sections. The overall economic rate of return on
the project port investments is expected to be 32Z.  The risks associated with
this project are considered minimal given the conservative nature of the
traffic forecasts and Malaysia's growth oriented economy. The effect of
possible changes in key benefit parameters on the rate of return was tested,
together with the influence of possible cost increases above the appraisal
estimate. If the costs increase by 15% and the benefits decrease by the same
amount, the ERR would be 28%.  If only 50% of the ship related benefits are
taken into account, the ERR would decrease to 25%. The switch value analysis
indicates that if the benefits decrease by 78Z, the net present value
(discounted at 12X) becomes zero. It may be concluded therefore that the
project remains feasible even under adverse eventualities.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
82.       I am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loans.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 31, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-24-
-   Annex I
TA A31.  3A                                    Page 1 of  6
MALAYSIA              - SCIAL INDICATORS DATA SIEIT
HALAYSIA                            RECrFRNCE CltUUS (WIECId  AVERAGES) La
MSTS                    ("ol SCNT  ITIMATE) A
amE              MIDDL IN1E              DDLE INURE
19Wg,o     IbtkLb! STLMNTd        AOSIA & PACGlC         LAT. AttICA & CAR
AM (ToUSun SQ. in)
TOTAL                             329.8      :29.8       329.a
AGRICULTURAL                       34.        39.8       43.6
M MR CAWITA CU$)                       .. *.               1860.0      I/ 1011.1                     1u75.S
BMWCONusNwrTI    PR CAr.tA,
(KILOCLAIS OF OIL EqUIVALENT)     616.0      455.0      689.0             56b.8                    9Y3.b
UCEULATIC. MD VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION.HIWYEAR (TMSADS)   6205.0    1063.0    14863.0
URBAN POPULATION CZ OF TOTAL)      25.2       27.0       30.7              35.9                     67.7
POPULATTON mncTIoNs
POPULATION IN lEAR 2000 (KILL) -                        20.5
STATIONARY PorULATION (MILL)                           33.0
POPULATION MOMENTUN                                      1.8
POPULATION DEIISIT
PER SO. KF.                      Z4.9       32.9       45.1             35b.9                     48.0
PER SQ. E. AGRH. LAND           235.5      273.2       333.2            1591.2                    91.1
POPULATION ArE STUCTURE (C)
0-14 YRS                        45.1       45.4        37.7              3h.2                    38.5
15-64 YRS                        51.2       51.4       5h.4              57.7                     57.1
65 MOID ASDVC                     3.6        3.U         3.7               3.5                     4.2
POPULATION GROi   RATE (7)
TOTAL                             2.7        2.B         2.3               Z.3                     2.4
URlIE                             4.9        3.5         3.4               4.1                     3.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TUSS)        44.3       35.7       29.1              3U.1                     3U.9
CRUML DEATH AIE (PER THOUS)        14.9        9.2        6.4               9.4                      8.0
CRODSS REPNROUCTION PATE            3.4        2.6         1.8               1.9                     2.u
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. sANUAL (TUms)          ..        56.D        81.1 Ic
USERSx C OF  AIED WOME)           ..        33.0 /d    42.0               56.5                    45.3
INDEX OF 200D PROD. PER CAPITA
(l969-71-100)                      85.0       99.0      133.0              124.4                  .109.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (x OF REQUIREETS)      10z.0      109.0       122.0             115.7                   113.2
PROTEINS (CSMS PER DAY)          46.0       50.0        66.0              60.3                    69.4
OF WHICH  IMAL AND PULSE        17.0       18.0        23.0 Ie           14.1                    34.2
CHILD (ASES 1-4) DEATH RArE         7.5        3.4        1.6               7.2                      4.8
LIFE  lPECr. AT BIRTH (YARS)       53.9       61.Z       66.9              60.6                     b4a.
INFANr no0r. RATE (PEm T1O0S)     72.0        45.5       29.0              64.9                     59.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATCR (CPOP)
TOTAL                             ..        ts.D       66. 0 IC           46.0                    65.3
URA                               . .       75.0        go.o T;-          571.6                   76.5
RURAL                             *-1.0                49.0 7             37.1                    44.2
ACCESS TO EICRETA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             .         59.0        70.0 c            50.1                    5sb.3
URAB                                       IOO.D       100.0 le           52.9                    73.4
RURAL                             ..        43.n        55.0 /c          44.7                     25.5
POPULATION PER PHrSICLI          7060.0     4310.D     7910.0 /a         7751.7                   1909.7
POP. PER SURSING PERSON          1800.0     1120.0      940.0 Ie          2464.8                   806.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL MD
TOTAL                           270.0      290.0         ..             1112.1                   362.0
URBAN                           110.0      140.0         ..              651.4                   422.0
RURAL                          571o.0     1760.0         ..             2596.9                  2716.7
ADsMSSIONS PEtR HOSPITAL BEI        ..        18.4         ..              41.1                     27.5
Dousnc
AVERACE SE OF HOUEROLD
TOTAL                             ..         5.6 if
URB                               ..         5.9 T       ..
RURAL                             ..         5.5 Tf
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/RISOM
TOTAL                             ..         Z.6 /f
UR8AN                                        2.3 7.
RURAL                                        z 2.8 ITf
PERCENrAGE OF DWELLINGS WITH ELECT.
TOTAL                              -        43-4 if
URBAN                              -        84.7 7       ...
USAL              .1                       30.1 /84.
11  US$1, 990 in 1984.



-25 -                                               ANNEX I
T     A 6 L C  3A                         Page  2  of  6
MALAYSIA               -NDCI,.L ICA SDATA rSEE
KAwlAYu                              RFjwSKZWE rgRUP. (NEIGHtE  AVERAGES) La
man               ~~~~CHART REcENT RIIKATE) jb
RoCCakI  iNCUI                           MIDDLE INOM
19tOS      1970  uErTdA              ARIA A PACIFIC        IAT. AMERICA & CAR
XOOCATZON
ADJUTECD ENaOLM0u  RATIOS
PRIDMA    TOTAL                   96.0       87.0        97.0              100.7                     106.7
MALE                  108.0        91.0       97.0              104.4                     103.5
FEMLE                  83.0        64.0       97.0               97.2                     104.6
seCoDAXY  OTAL                    19.0       34.0        72.0               47.8                      44.2
KALE                   25.0        40.0       72.0               50.6                      42.7
FEMALE                 13.0        26.0       72.0               44.8                      44.9
VOCATIONAL (C oF SECONDARY)          4.6         2.9        1.6               18.4                      13.3
PUPL-Tz-E  RATIO
PRIAMY                            28.0       31.0        25.0               30.A                      29.9
SEO1muY                           25.0       26.0        22.0               22.2                      16.7
PASEENGER CARS/TKOUSAND POP         11.6       21.9        42.5 /5            10.1                      46.0
RAeI Ecr.'SSJTWSAJND POP            36.9        39.6      *15.4 7c           172.9                     328.3
TV RCEVERS/7ROUSAND POP              3.2 Ih    12.0        89.9               58.5                     112.4
NNSPAPER C"DLY CGRAL
ITERST) CRCLATION
PER TROUSAID POPULUION             60.0       72.1       182.2               65.3                      81.1
CINM ANIIAL ATTRNDMCE/CPJrrA        18.0        9.4         2.6 is             3.4                       2.4
LAOR FORCE
TOrAL LOU   FORCE (TROHWS)        2800.0      3668.0     5431.0
FEM    (CPRCENT)                  27.2       31.4        31.6               33.6                      23.6
AGCOI.ulTU   (PERCDNT)            63.0       56.0        50.0 /             52.2                      31.4
INoUmY (PRCzNT)                   12.0       14.0        16 .07             17.9                      24.3
PArICIPATW    RAITE (PERCENT)3
rOTAL                             34.1        33.8       36.5               38.9                      33.5
HALE                              48.B       45.7        49.3               50d                       51.3
FINALE                            18.9       21.5        23.2               26d                       15.9
ECONOMIC DEPZNDEIICI RAIO            1.4        1.4         1.2                1.1                       1.3
INCOME DISTRINU
PERCET 0o PRIVATE DICOIE
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 52 OF HOUSEHOLDS          34.0       27.0
RICHEST 202 OF 4DU9SELS           61.2       56.6         ..                48.0
LOWEST 202 OF IWSEIIOLDS           3.2        3.3                            6.4
LOUEST 402 OF EWSEROLDS            9.6       10.6                           13.5
Pan=  TARET     -
EST1iTED APSOLUTE POVERT IME
LEVEL CUSS PEM CAPIA)1
URBAN                              ..        123.6      314.4 I              ..                      288.3
RURAL                              ..        111.6      289.2  c           151.9                     185.3
ESTIMATED RMATI.- POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL CUSS PE CAPITA)
URDA                               ..         ..          ..               177.9                     519.8
RURAL                              ..         ..          ..               164.7                     359.7
ESTIMATED POP. BMW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY IME LEVEL (2)
URBAN                              ..        21.3        12.6 Ic            23.5
RURAL                              ..         5.7        37.7 7;            37.8
NO  AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABIZ
NO TES
la  The group averages for each Lndicator are populationweghtad arithmetic mean..  Crwea   of coutries
anong the indicators dopnd   oD avallability of data and Is not unfear.
lb   Unlear otherwise noted. 'Data Eor 1960" refer to any ysar between 1959 ad 1961- "Data for 1970' between
1969 and 1971; and data for "Not Recent Estimate" bet_Da 1981 and 1963.
/c  1980; fd 1974; /. 1977; If Peninsular Hrayia; /S 1978; /h 1964.
JUNE, 1985



ANNEX I
- 26 -                                              Page 3 of 6
I                                             DEFINMONSM OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
'otes Although the data are drawn from sounrsgeneally judged the mostauthoritativeand reliable. it should also be noted that they may not be intemaLiormslly
.omparable becatue of the lock tf standardized definitions and concepts umed by different countmes in collecting the detat The data are, nonetheless, ueful .o
describe orderm of magnitude. indicate t4rends and dcracterize ertain majordiferences between countries.
The referen groups sre (1) the same counury group of the subject country and (2) a country group with somewhat higher average income than the country
group of the subject county (except for 'Hipg Income Oil Exportems group where -Middle Income North Africa and Middle East" is chosen bcauwe o stronger
sociocultur affinities). In the reference group data the vae amre population weighted aritbmetic means for each indicotor and shown only when majority
orthe countries in a group bu data for that indicator. Since lte coverfeofcountries among the indicator depends on the availability of data and is nol uniform.
caution must be exerced in relating averages of one indicator to nothtr These averges are only usdul in comparing the value of one indicator at a time among
the country and reeren groupL
AREA (thousand sq.km.l                                            Cntke  Wh Rate (per thonsmnd)-Number of live births in the year
Tota/-Total surface are.e comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                         Crat Death Rate (per thousand)-Number of deaths in the year
Agricuurat-Estimate of agricultural area used tenporarily or      per thousand of mid-year population: 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastums. market and kitchen gardens or to  Crosi Reprodcon Rate--Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                             will bear in her normnal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates: usually five-year averages ending
CNP PER CAPITA (USS) -GNP per capita estimates at current         in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices. calculated by same corversion method as World       Famiy Plaaaing-Aepters, Ammcl (rhousandv)-Annual num-
Bank Atlas (1981-83 basis); 1983 data.                              er of acceptors ofbirth-control devices under auspices or national
ENERCY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite,        Famibl Plannsin-Users (percent ofmarded uwmen)-The percen-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-   tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                        of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATlSTICS                                   groups.
Total PapasLae3n. Mid-dYea (thousands)-As or July 1; 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
lrex e fFeed Predaonito  Per Capita (1969-71Y   100)-Index of per
Uirban Popnadon (percent of rotaf)-Ratio of urban to total        capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data amnong countries; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.       include primary commodities (eg. sugarcane instead of sugar)
P,opaio  Prjections                                               which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popudation i year 200Z -The projection of population for 2000.    excluded); they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on    vegetables fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parmeters    on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.               Pr Capira Supply ef Calies (percent of require-ents)-&omput-
Stationary popuraikun-ls one in which age- and scx-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalcnt of net food supplics available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population, the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also    food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution or population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                        waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momentur-Is the tendency for population growth to      Per Capia Supply of Protein (grams per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Nct supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries establishcd by USDA
unity. Thc momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. or which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility tmains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                         75 grams of total protcin and 23 grams of animal protcin as an
POPUlato Density                                                  average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-     Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  Per Capita Protein Sapply Fron Anima ant Pls --Protein supply
Per sq.km. agriculuural land-Computed as above for agricultural   offood derived from animalsand pulses in grams perday: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                              1970 and 1977 data.
PopuLation Age Strecture (percenet-Children (0-14 years). work-   Chl(ages1-4)DeathRate(pershosand)  Numberofdcathsof
ing age (I5-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Popxklaoe Growth Rate (percentr)-etal-Annual growth rates of      from life tablcs; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mnid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.     HEALTH
P epaLtion Growth Rate (pereat)_-nrban-Annual growth rates        L; Expectancy at Birth (Vem) -Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.        infant would livc if prevailing patterns of mortality for all peopic



-27 A-NNX
Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to stay the same througbout its lfe:  Pupi-reacher Raeio - primory. and secondary-Total students en-
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                     roled in prinary and secondary lvels divided by numbers of
Infant Mortly Rate (per thousnd)-Number of infants who dic    teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
ycar, 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                               CONSUMPTION
Access to Sift Woer (perct Of IpImth zA)-utd, rban, _d        Passenger Cars (per thoind popuatonj-Passenger cars com-
eurl-Number o people (toaL urban, and rural) with reasoable   ps motor cars seating less than eight persons: cxcludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (ncdudes trated surface watets or  anoes, hearses and military vehides.
untreated but uncontaninated water such - that from proteted  Radi Reeiers (per thmsdpeopuludonl-AII types of receivers
borholes, springs and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
tive populations. In an urban cra a pubLic fiountan or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not mor: than 200 metes from a horn may be _ dgsraon of radio sets was in effect data for recent years may
as being within reasonable access of that house. In rurl arras  not be comparble since most countries abolished lceansing.
reasonable access would imnply that the housewife or members of the
houselbold do not have to spcnd a disrporionate part of the day  TVRecees (per thhausdpopasan)-TV receivers for broadcast
in fetching die famils water needs                            to general public per thousand population: excludes unlicnsed TV
recivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
Access to Ercrena Disposa (percent of populatsads)-toM4 wham,  in effect.
ad rwal-Number of people (total urban, and mral) served by    n c
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  w      C    i  (po           pop )      bows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or  age circulation of 'daily geeral interest newspaper,' defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and wase-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording geneal news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be -dafly" if it appears at kast four times a week.
Pepalation per Physiian-lPpulation divided by number of prac-  Cinema Annua Atendance per Caia per Year-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university leve.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Populao per Nrsig Person-Pbpulation divided by number of      drive-in cinemas and mobik units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses.  LABOR FORCE
practical nurses and nursing auxiliariesT                           LABOR  Force
-7uato perHspital  ed- total   .                              Tta Laho Thre(rh doarbmndsEconomically active persons, in-
(total, urban, and rural) divided by their respective number Of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
(tostal,urbean. and inpu-diviiedby dpriewrespwtive numbealhrod  students, etc. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospital beds available in public and pnvate, general and spcbd various countries are not comparable: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments
permanenty staffed by at least one physkan. EstaFhshmcets prov-  Fma  (percenr)-Fmale labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not induded. Rural hospitals,    force.
however. include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  A4riawe (percst)-Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse, midwife. etc.)    and fishing as percentage of total labor force 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient acconmnodation and prvide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                       Industry (percent)-Labor force in mining, construction, manu-
Admision per Hospital ed-Total number of admissions to or     facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force: 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Pkveipation Rare (percent)-atea  mak, adfanalk-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total, male, and female Labor force
Average Size of Hoseold (persons per hoaeUd)-etol,a  am,      as pemrntages of totaL male and female population of all ages
anSdIYa -A householdconsistsofagroupofindividualswho share    respectively. 1960. 1970, and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be induded in the household for statistical purposes.  long time ttnd. A few estimates arc from national sources.
Average Number of Perrss per Room-t-ota, urban, and rural-    Econamic DEpendncy Redo-Ratio of population under 15. and
Avcragc number of persons per room in all urban, and rural    65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.               INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Pecntage of DwElps  ith Elecnrity-rotu4 wham, and rual-       P/erenage of Total Dirposabk Inc   (both - cash ad kimd)-
Conventional dwellings with lectricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of bouseholds ranked by total house-
tagc of total, urban. and rural dwellings respectively.       hold income.
EDUCAllON                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjsted Enirolwment Ratios                                    The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prbnary school - total male ond fema-Gross total, mak and     levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary lewl as percentages of  Etinated Aboliute Pvrty Income Leel (U5S per capira)-arha.
respective primary school-age populations. While nany countries  and rurat-Absolute poveny income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years others do not The  below which a minimal nutritionaly adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school   - non-food requirements is not affordabic.
are reflected in the ratios given- For some countries with universal  Estied Relative Poverty Incme Level (USS per capiua)-bhan
education. gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since sonic  and rualt-Rural relative poveny income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban levd is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - tord. num   and femae-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estimated Populon BElew Absoine Pobrty Income Level (per-
mary instruction; provides general. vocational, or teacher training  ceat)-urban and rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age correspond-  who arc absolute poor.-
ence courses are generaly excluded.
Vocationd Enrolbneni (percent of secondury)-Vocational institu-         Comparativc Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical, industriaL or other programs which operate  Economnic Analysis and Projections Departmcnt
independently or as departments of secondary institutions                             June 1985



ANIIN T
- 28 -                                                  Page S of 6
COUNTRY DATA - MALAYSIA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1984:                       ANNUAL RATE OF C.ROUTR:
X In constant priees and NS
USS  mtn    X         1961-70   1971-77   1978   1979   1980  1q81   19R2  1983   1984
GNP at Market Prices             30,621   100.0         6.4       7.8      5.9    9.0    A.6   7.2   4.8    4.4    6.1
Gross Dowestic Inveutment        10,183    33.3         6.7      11.4      R.1   13.5   8.0  22.1  14.6   6.8    3.2
Gross National Saving             7,959    26.0    -     *         *        *      *      *      A            *       *
Exports of Goods 6 NFS           18,399   60.1         fi.0       7.5      7.6   17.5   2.7   0.5   8.7   11.0  14.7
Imports of Coods 6 NFS           18,473    60.3         2.9       8.5    12.9  2R.5  11.1   7.2  11.2   7.8    9.3
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVM  IN 1983 /a
Output                       Employment                   Output per worker
USS n1t             2            )tn              Z             USS               2
Agriculture                          3,054            21.1           2.0            37.0           1.558            5R.7
Industry                             4,491            31.3           1.3            24.1           3,545           131.6
Services                             6,803            47.4           2.1            38.9           3,122           117.6
Total/Average                  14,348           100.0           5.4           100.0           2.654           100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
M$ Nln                         x~~~~~~~ of CDP
1984        1071-75       1976-80       1981       1982       1983       198
Current Receipts                         20,820         20.6          24.4         28.2       27.3       27.2       29.0
Cu-reant Expenditures                     19.141        24.9          30.5         24.4       26.0       23.6       26.7
Current Surplus                            1,679        0.6            1.2          3.8        1.3        3.6        2.3
Direct Development Expenditures            5,304         5.1           7.3         15.8       11.6        7.7        7.4
Net Lending                                3,592         3.0           3.4          4.1        6.7        5.5        5.0
Foreign Borrowing (net)                    4,226         2.1           1.3          5.2        7.8        6.4        5.9
bOMEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1974    1975    1976    1977   1978   1979    1980    1981    1982   1983    1984
(Million MS outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi-Money             8,714  10,001  12,771  14,861  17,467  21,616  27,652  32,371  37,648  41,193  45,876
Baik Credit to Public
Sector (net)                       959   1,313     822   1,213   1,017    -742     S49   2,292   3,M92   3,431   4,146
Baik Credit to Private
Sector                           5,275   6,077   7,471   8.971  11,844  14,982  20,916  25,718  29,16  36,417  42,974
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-Money
as I of CDP                       38.1   44.8   45.5   46.0   46.1   47.9    53.3   57.7   61.5   60.6   59.R
Consumer Price Index
(1980 - 100)                     69.R   82.0    85.7   87.9   92.n   96.5   100.0  109.7  116.1  120.4  125.1
Annual Percentage
Changes In Consmer
Price Index                       17.4    4.5    2.6    4.7        4.9     3.6     6.7     9.7     5.8    3,7    3.9
Bank Credit to Public
Sector (net)                     69.4   36.9  -37.4    67.8  -16.2                   *   317.5   73.7  -13.R    20.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector       1'.1   15.1   22.9   20.1    32.0   26.5   30.7   22.R    16.3   21.7   18.0
*   Not applicable.
/a In 1970 prices.
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this tahle are at the average exchange rate prevailtng during the period covered.
September 1985



ANNEX I
- 29 -                                        PaRe 6 of 6
TRADE PAYMEWTS AND CAPTTAL PLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS              19R2       1983       1984                    MERCRANnISE EXPORTS (19R4)
-(USS million)-                                        USS millton        2
Exports f.o.b.                  11,952    13,863    16,25n           Rubber                         1.565         9.6
Imports F.o.b.                  12,464    13,160    14,233           Tinber                         1.539         9.5
Nonfactor Services (net)        -1,616    -3,027    -2,177           Petroleum                      3,729        23.n
Resource Gap (deficit - -)    -2.21R    -1,324          -160         Tin                              479         3.0
Factor Services (net)             -958    -1,548    -2,042           Palm Oil                       2,26R        14.n
Net Transfers                      -33        -22        -22         All Other Goods                6,670        40.9
Ralance on Current Account
(deficit - -)                 -3,119    -2,894    -2,224                 Total                   16,250      100.0
Dtrect Foreign Investment        1,256      1,206        898
Net MLT Borrowing /a             2,597      2,133      2,063         EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, 19R4
Disbursements                    2,83R      2,391      2,617
Amortization                       241        258        554                                                 nSS Kln
Subtotal                      3,853      3,339     2,961         Public Debt, incl. ruaranteed             11,R72
Nonguaranteed Private Debt                 B,933
Other Items n.e.i.                -931       -396       -657         Total Outstanding & Disbursed             15,805
Increase in Reserves (-)           197        -49        -RO
International Reserves
(end year)                   4,021     4,102      4,109         DEBT SERVICZ RATIO FOR 1984 /b                2
Fuel and Related Materials                                           Public Debt,  incl. Cuaranteed               7.9
Imports                                         *                    Nonguaranteed Private Debt                   4.n
Exports                              *          *          *         Total Outstanding & Disbursed               11.9
Of which:  Crude Petroleum   3,28R        3,193     3,729
IBRD/IDA LENDING (SEPTEMBFR 30, 1985)
(115 millilon)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                                 lBRD
Average rate during pertod:                                          Outstanding & Disbursed                   807.n4
llndisbursed                             4R2.46
Outstanding  incl. llndishursed         1,2R9.50
1S Per USS             US$ per MS
1974                     2.41                   0.41
1975                     2.40                   0.42
1976                     2.54                   0.39
1977                     2.46                   0.41
1978                     2.32                   0.43
1079                     2.14                   0.46
1980                     Z.1R                   n.46
1981                     2.3n                   0.43
19R2                     2.34                   0.43
1983                     2.32                   0.43
19R4                     2.34                   0.43
* not available.
/a Public/publicly guaranteed debt only.
/b  Interest an1 amortization payments as a proportion of total earnings fron exports of goods and services.
September 1985



-30 -                               ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS /a
As of September 30, 1985
Amount in US$ million
Loan                                                                  (less cancellations)
no.    Year       Borrower                 Purpose                    Bank      Undisbursed
Forty-three loans fully disbursed                                       867.66
1376    1977   Malaysia              Highway (III)                       35.00        4.79
1444    1977   Malaysia              Nat'l Small-Scale Irrigation        39.00        1.84
1493    1978   Malaysia              National Extension                  19.00        1.89
1590    1978   Malaysia              FELDA VI Land Settlement            28.00        3.67
1632    1978   Malaysia              Krian-Sungei Manik Agri. Dev.       26.50        0.27
1717    1979   Malaysia              Muda II Irrigation                  31.00       10.83
1808    1980   Nat'l Elec. Board    Power (IX)                           50.00        4.41
1899    1980   Malaysia              Kelantan Land Scheme Rehab.         25.00       21.03
1957    1981   Malaysia              Rompin-Endau Area Dev.              40.00       24.74
1960    1981   Malaysia              Trans-Perak Area Dev.               50.00       39.58
2013    1981   Malaysia              FELCRA I                            37.00       24.60
2145    1982   Malaysia              Industrial Training (Educ VI)       40.60       34.45
2146    1982   Wat'l Elec. Board    Rural Electrification (Power X)    86.30         39.85
2147    1982   Malaysia              Malacca Agri. Development           25.40       19.05
2220    1983   Malaysia              Kedah Valleys Agri. Development    56.90        47.57
2291    1983   Malaysia              Sabah-Sarawak Road                  86.22       86.00
2438    1984   Nat'l Elec. Board    Power (XI)                           70.00       69.78
2471    1985   Malaysia              Small-Scale Enterprises             52.10       48.11
Total Loans (less cancellation) /b                            1,665.68
of which has been repaid                                      332.29
Total now outstanding                                         1,333.39
Amount sold                     43.89
of which has been repaid                                       43.89
Total loans now held by Bank /b                               1,289.50
Total undisbursed                                                           482.46
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated'
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b  Excludes Loan 2530-MA, FELDA Palm Oil Mills Project, US$31.2 million approved on
May 7, 1985; Loan 2550-MA, Sabah Forestry Technical Assistance Project, US$6.5 million
approved on May 21, 1985; and Loan 2601-MA, Second Industrial Training Project,
US$73.3 million approved on July 2, 1985. None of these loans were effecttve as of
September 30, 1985. Subsequently, Loan 2530-MA became effective on October 28, 1985
and Loan 2601-MA on November 1, 1985.



-31-                            ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
As of September 30, 1985
Amount in
Type of             US$ million
Year              Obligor                   business       Loan    Equity  Total
1964-74   Malysian Industrial Devel-        Financing          -    1.94    1.94
opient Finance Ltd. (MIDF)
1985      SEAVI-HA                          Money and          -    1.00    1.00
Capital Hkt.
1966      Tasek Cement Ltd.                 Cement          1.28    0.28    1.56
1968-69   Malayawata Steel Ltd.             Steel           2.45    1.24    3.69
1970      India-Malaysia Textiles, Ltd.   Textiles          1.25    0.25    1.50
1985      Pacific Hardwoods                 Pulp and        9.97    1.53   11.50
Paper Prod.
Total Gross Comnitment                          14.95    6.24   21.19
Less: repayments, sals, cancellations,
terminations and write-off                4.98    3.71    8.69
Total Comitments Now Held by IFC                 9.97    2.53   12.50
Total Undisbursed                                4.97    0.41    5.38



-32 -                            ANNEX III
Page 1
MALAYSIA
PORT KELANG PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare project        : 2 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project               : Kelang Port
Authority
(c) Date of first Bank Mission to consider
the project                                     : April 1984
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission          : July 8, 1985
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations              : March 21, 1986
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness                   : August 4, 1986
Section II: Special Conditions
(a) GOM agreed that no major investments in new port facilities in
excess of M$10 million beyond what is already committed would be
undertaken until the National Ports Study financed under
Loan 2291-MA is completed and that the Bank is consulted prior to
making such investments (para. 23);
(b) LPK would undertake the identification of bottlenecks which affect
the movement of traffic into and oult of the port and propose an
action program to implement the recommendations emanating
therefrom. The Government will be required to review the action
program with the Bank and agree on the measures to be implemented by
June 30, 1987 (para. 60(ii));
(c) LPK would develop a system to revalue the port's fixed assets at
their estimated replacement cost and revalue them by December 31,
1987 (para. 69);
(d) LPK would review the current tariff structure based on the actual
costs of providing the service with the Bank no later than December
31, 1987 (para. 72);



ANUEX III
- 33 -                                Page 2
(e) LPK would maintain an operating ratio not exceeding 73Z beginning in
1988 (para. 73).



A                                                                 A' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 19350
PI--I                                                         -F                                                           OR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-  .-   J                                                                                                            ,  !w'   .'
POTu KKAN.ANG
POJSRTr LAYOUTUT
0   L old3 bt   f*03 IIM                                                                                                                                        INDONESIA
00  Dy b.% fac331j3W                      PWWAU                                                                                                                                             SWGO
A                     - -Ll -, -                                                                                          }-   ___-_ _ _ __ _ _                                  /Z
Shoo                                                                                                                                                     GENERA    A A
H0    EH300E313
-STAC30.2
-t"G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3



