Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE COPY
Report No: 12037                                    Report No. 12037
Type: PCR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
PORT KELANG PROJECT
(LOAS 2686/87- MN)
JUE 30, 1993
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
Thi doument has a resideted distrbWon and may be ued by redplens only In the perfornuce of
their officid dufies Its conents may not oherwie be d_losed wthout Wodd Bank autha



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      1985  198   1987  1988  1989  1990  1991
US$1 = M$          2.48   2.58   2.52   2.62   2.71   2.70  2.75
M$1 = USS          0.403  0.388 0.397  0.382  0.369  0.370  0.364
WEIGHTS AND MEASUIRES
1 foot = .305 meters
I mile = 1.609 meters
1 ton   1000 kilograms
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB  -       Asian Development Bank
cCMS -       Cargo Management System
EDP  -       Electronic Data Processing
EPU  -       Economic Planning Unit
ICB   -      International Competitive Bidding
ICD   -      Inland Container Depot
IRR   -      Intcrnal Rate of Return
KC1T  -      Kelang Container Terminal
KPN  -       A Joint venture of KTK and other investors
KTK  -       Konas Terminal Kelang
KTM  -       Keretapi Tanah Melayu (Malavan Railways)
LCB  -       Local Competitive Bidding
LPK  -       Lembaga Pelabuhan Kelang (Kclang Port Authority)
MDU -        Management Development Unit
MIS  -       Management Information System
MOT  -       Ministry of Transport
PCR  -       Project Completion Report
PDA  -       Pile Driver Analysis
POL  -      Petroleum, Oils and Lubricants
SAR  -       Staff Appraisal Report
TEU  -       Twenty Foot Equivalcnt Units
TOR  -       Terms of Reference



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WOF.D BANK
Washlngn, D.C. 2033
U.SA
Office of Dirc;ort-Oeseral
Operatiou Evaton
June 30, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PEESEIDWN
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Malaysia
Port Relang Project
gLoans 2686 _and 2687-&)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Malaysia - Port Relang
Project (Loans 2686 and 2687-MA)" prepared by the Infrastructure Operations
Division, Country Department I, of the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office,
with the Borrower providing Part II.
The project, during implementation, was scaled down; both the
Borrower and the Bank showed appropriate flexibility in adapting to changed
circumstances.   Also, during implementation,  a substantial part of port
operations were privatizedt however, neither the port nor the Bank participated
in the formulation of the privatization plan.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory. The economic rate of
return appears acceptable although sustainability is uncertain as it depends,
inter alia, on future decisions regarding privatization.   Similarly,  the
increasing competitiveness of road haulers introduces an element of uncertainty
as to the railway's role as a provider of intermodal services which forms most
of the justification of the project. The institutional impact of the project is
partial. Both the port and the railway failed to capitalize on the training
provided under the project. In a number of areas (establishing a management
information system, a market research capacity, and a strong training unit), the
objectives were not realized.
The PCR is satisfactory. No Audit is planned.
Attachment eI
Thfs doauent has a retricted distribution wW may be used by recipients ornty in the parform ofl
their official duties. Its contents mynot otherwise be d;welosed wfthout world 8arkk muhorization 



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRO.lECT COMPLELII-ON LtEPOR'
MALAYSIA
PORT KELANG PROCECT
(LOANS 2686-MAe Z67-MAL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .                                                                      -
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..-ii-
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE.- 1.-
Project Identity.. -l
Background..                            1.-
Project Description and Objectives .2-
Project Implementation.                                               -4-
Project Schedule..                                             .4.
Changes in Project Design.                                     -5-
Project Costs.                                                 -7-
Changes in Transport Sector and Regulatory Environment .- 7 -
Project Results .- 9 -
General Objectives .- 9 -
Specific Design Goals ................................... .- 10 -
Financial Performance.                   .                     12.
Economic Benetits and Evaluation ..  14 -
Studies ..- 16.
Covenants ............................., ., 17.
Privatization.                       .                         17 -
Institutional Performance ..- 20. 
Borrower and Executing Agencies Performance .- 20 -
Consultants .- 20 -
Bank's Performance .- 21 -
Project Documentation and Data .- 22 -
Conclusions and Sustainability .-22-
ANNEES .- 25 
A. Fmancial Statements..                                              26 -
B. Perfomance Statistics .-31-
C Eonomic Evaluation of Port Kelang Project .-40-
D. Impact of Privitization of KC .                                    -44-
E.KTM Statistics .-49-
F. MIS Systems Developed Since 1986 .- 53-
G. Courses/Seminar/Workshop Conducted at MDU          .. 55 -
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofcil duties. Its contents may not otherise be diclosed without Woirld Bank authorization.



TABLES
PART I - PROJECr REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Relative Capital Costs for Different Investments .............   .   13 -
2. Financial Performance Measures .  ........................  13-
ANNEXES
A. Fnancial Statements
1. LPK - Income and Expense Statement ......  ..............-. 26 -
2. LPK - Balance Sheet ..............                       -27-
3. LPK - Sources and Applications of Funds .-28-
4. KTM - Income and Expense Statement .29 -
S. KTM - Balance Sheet .30-
B. Performance Statistics
1. Type of Commodities Handled at Port Kelang .              31.
2. Port Kelang Container Statistics - Actual and Projected .- 32 -
3. Port Kelang Vessel Statistics .                           33.
4. Port Kelang Container Statstics        ..34-
5. North Port Vessel and Tonnage Statistics.. 35 -
6. Berth Occupancy- Port Kelang .36-
7. Berth Occupanc - North Port .37-
8. Turnaround and Waiting Times in Port Kelang .             38-
9. Gang Productivity at Conventional Cargo Berths .          39
C. Economic Evaluation of Port Kelang Project
1. iPort Traffic - Projected in SAR and Actual .40-
2. Berths, Berth Occupancy. and Cost of Delays with Various
Investment Alternatives .41 -
3. Comparison of Current Investment With and Without Berth 15 . - 4-
4. Comparison of Split Phases with Current Investment Schedule 4. .  -43
D. Impact of Privatization of KCT
1. KCr- Productivity Improvements .                          46 -
2. LPKs Incremental Cash Flow from Privatization of KCT  . . 47 -
E. KTM Statistics
1. Container Movements to and From Port Kelang (TEU)  .   . 49 -
2. Ipoh Container Yard Traffic Statistics   .. 50 -
3. KTM Fleet Inventory ........... 52.
PART m - STATISCAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans and/or Credits       ..70-
2.  Projectrimetable                  ..71.
3.  Project Implementation .-72-
4.  Loan Disbursemeits                . ....73-
S.a  ProjectCosts (Ringgit) .-75-
5.b  Project Cost(US) ...-76-
5.c Project Funcing                   ..77-
6   Economic Impact-Summary                ..78-
7.a   FinaicialPerformance Ii"cators LPK.... -79-
7.b   FmancWi Performance Indkatos, KTM     .                79-
& Studies                        ... .79-
9.  Status of Covenant .-80-
10. Missions                      ... - 81



PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROMN BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   ..56 -
Implementation of Bank Finance Civil Works ...                          56 -
Accomplishments of the Manpower Development Unit.                      - 60 -
Implementation of Railroad Pilot Project ........   .................. .  61-
Evaluation of Performance for Port Kelang Project .................. . - 63 -
Performance of the Borrower ...................................-. 63-
Financial Performance .................................. -. 64-
Technical Assistance Components ............ ..............-. 65 -
Evaluation of Performance for the Railroad Pilot Project . ............. - 67 -
PART m  - STATISTICAL INFORMATION               ............................  .69 -



FIGURES
ANNEXES
E KIM Statistics
1. Growth in Container Movements by Railroad in Malaysia ...... . 51 -
2. Railroad Traffic in Malaysia ............................  .S1 -
3. Comparison of All Traffic and C',ntainer Traffic Moved by
Railroad .......................  . 52-
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
L.a Disbursements - 2686-MA and 2687-MA ......... .........  -74.
L.b Disbursement Profile Port Kelang and Malaysian Railways   -74-



MALAY IA
MORT KELANG PRO.lECr (LOANS 2686-MA 2687-MA)
=PRO_EC`r COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Port Kelang Project. for which
the Loins 2687-MA and 2686-MA were approved on June 20. 1986 in the amount of $16.7
million and $2.1 miDlion, respectively. Due to lower than estimated costs of construction and
a scaling down of the scope of the project only $5.5 million was disbursed for the first loan
and the balance was canceled at the request of Port Kelang. The final disbursement for thL
loan was made on May 7, 1992. AU of second loan was disbursed with the final disbursement
on April 30, 1990.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Department. of Country Department I,
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office, with the assistance of a consultant. Part II was
prepared by the Executing Agencies of the Borrower. The report tindings are based on a
mission to Malaysia in May 1992 as well as a revicw of the documents contained in the
project tiles at the World Bank and Port Kelang.



- ii -
MALYSIA
PORT KELANG PROJECT (LOANS 2686-MA, 2687-MA)
PRO,JEC:T COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Backaound and Obifectives
i. The project was undertaken at the request of the government which was considering a
major expansion (West Port) to Port Kelang in order to meet the growing demand of both
container and breakbulk traffic. The Bank mission working with the port management
identified a smaller investment which would meet the short-term demands and defer the
proposed investment in West Port until a more appropriate time. Since the larger investment
did not prove to be economically or financially justified at that time, it was decided to proceed
with the smaller investment but to monitor the situation to determine when the larger
investment should begin (para. 2-7).
ii. The Bank staff also identified a number of areas in which improvements could be
introduced in the national intermodal transportation network.  In particular. it was
recommended that the national railroad's role in the carriage of containers be increased. The
project was then expanded to include a separate loan. This was to be used by the Malayan
Railway (KTM - Keretapi Tanah Mclavu ) for a demonstration project to increase the
amount of containers moving between the port and the capital. Kuala Lumpur. and to
strengthen the nm.nagement's abilitv in the area of intermodal freight (para. 7.1 1).
Implementation Experience
iii. The construction of the civil works in Port Kelang went relatively smoothly. Delavs were
experienced because of problems with the availability of land and the ccordination of
sequential activitiec, but engineering, design and construction were done efficiently. A similar
efficiency was noted in the railroad's upgrading of the rail line between Port Kelang and
Kuala Lumpur and the construction of the container yard at Brickfields. Delays were
incurred because the government did not provide the budget to the railroad until well after
the loan became effective (para. 14-16, 22-23).
iv. The technical assistance provided under this project was more problematic. The
management of Port Kelang lacked a strong commitment to the program presented in the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), although it had been agreed to with the Bank. Much of the
project period was spent agonizing over the scope and budget of the components of this
program. Furthermore, the performance of the consultants was mixed. KIM had much less
difficulty with implementing its technical assistance program and received good performance
from its consultants. As a result, a unit for multi-modal operations was established in the
Freight Department (para. 17-21, 24-27).



s iii
v. Some difficulty was experienced in enforcing the covenants related to financial reporting
because of the government auditors' delays in releasing the annual financial reports. The
Port also had difficulty meeting its financial performance criteria because of the impacts of
privatization on its finances. (para 71)
Result
v. At the end of the project, all the planned structures had been successfully completed. In
Port Kelang, the additional capacity provided at the general cargo wharves and the petroleum,
oils and lubricants (POL) berths allowed the port to accommodate the growing traffic while
continuing to convert some of the conventional cargo berths to container berths. During the
same period, a complementary increase in container capacity was achieved through
privatization of the container terminai. These combined activities allowed the port to meet
overall demand without major problems in congestion.
ViL The financial performance of the port was dominated by the privatization efforts. (para.
51-57) The impact of the project was minimal since the port had adequate financial
resources. The project's economic benefits included the avoidance of congestion which would
have occurred without an investment in new facilities or. alternativelv. the savings from
delaying a more costly investment. The economic internal rate of return (IRR) at the: end
of the project was 18%. (para. 58-67)
viii. The amount spent on the project was considerably less than originally estimated. The
loan amount for the port project was $16.7 million. All but $5.5 million of this was canceled
as a result of lower than expected bids and a rcduced scope of investment. In contrast, the
$2.1 million loan for the KTM was fully disbursed.
ix. A review of the requirements for investment in West Port, undertaken two years alter the
start of the project, recommended that this investment be undertaken starting in 1989 with
the construction of the bridges and access roads. The current plan is for some ten berths to
become available in 1993194. At that time. congestion at the existing facilities should have
just begun to appear. (para. 52. 70). OveralL the project was successful in delaying this
investment until it was financially and economically justified. It was also fortuitous that the
delay extended the period of construction beyond the second phase of privatization so that
competing services can be introduced when these facilities are completed.
x. The investments in KTM's trackage and yards as part of the project were complemented
by KTM's investments in container wagons. This allowed the railroad to greatly expand its
container haulage operations. The movements between Port Kelang and Kuala Lumpur
increased until recenttly when strong competition from the road hauliers took away much of
the traffic. Now the railroad has begun to reasess its intermodal services and to focus on the
longer routes where they have a competitive advantage over road transport. (para. 42-46, 102)
xi The technical assistance to Port Kelang produced improved performance in the targeted
areas of management but did not achieve the specific objectives of establishing a Management
Information System (MIS), a market research capability and a strong training unit. Even now
there is uncertainty as to whether the bcnceits of this technical assistance will be realized by
the Port or by the private sector operator scheduled to take over the remainder of the port,
excluding West Port. (para. 41, 47.49)



- iv-
xii The technical assistance to KTM produced a staff capable of operating an intermodal
service, but most of these personnel have since been promoted. Follow-on training has not
been provided for their replacements. (para. 50)
xiii. The recommended changes in port finances, in particular, the modification of tariffs to
reflect costs and the revaluation of assets to retlect replacement costs, were undertaken but
never completed. Expectations with regards to the upcoming privatization and its alteration
of management responsibility discouraged the LPCs management from undertaking the
difficult task of implementing these changes. (para 72-73)
Sustalnabllltv
xiv. The sustainability of the port project is visible in the ongoing construction of West Port
and the active program of converting berths from conventional cargo to containers. (para. 39)
The sustainability of the railroad's intermodal service is less clear, despite a considerable
investment in rolling stock The increasing competitiveness of the road hauliers is expected
to cut heavily into the railroad's market share on all but the longest routes. (para. 45-46)
xv. The sustainabilitv of the technical assistance is less dependent on maintaining the
capabilities acquired than on continuing to improve these capabilities. Both the port and the
railroad have failed to capitalize on the training through a process of continuing education.
Only the Management Development Unit of Port Kelang continues to evolve, but its future
is uncertain given the increased role of the private sector. (para. 49-50, 97-98)
Findints and experience
xvi. Thc port project demonstrates the importance of smaller investments and improvements
in the productivity of existing facilities in thc expansion of port capacitv. The need for
additional facilities had been recognized, but these short-term investments provided the
needed capacity with considerable savings. More importantly. the smaller investments allowed
the port to delay West Port until after the issue of privatization of port facilities had been
resolved. Even though the plans for West Pcrt have not changed. the allocation of these
facilities will be different now that the second round of privatization has been completed.
xvi. The railroad project demonstrated the capabilities of the railroad for handling
inuermodal cargo without committing large funds to the development of a national service.
This proved to be a wise strategy as the market for intermodal movements continues to
evolve and the competition among and within modes continues to, increase.
xvuii The ongoing privatization of the port's facilities and the planned privatization of the
railroad provided the most interesting lesson from this project. In many ways, the outcome
of the project was obscured by these activities They affected not only where improvements
in efficiency were taking place but also where management directed its energies. Neither the
Bank nor the Port's management participated in thc formulation of the privatization plan.
Their activities had to accommodate the uncertinties about who would eventualHy control the
different parts of the port. Because the project's investments were relatively small. it was
possible to achieve improvements which would continue regardless of who controls the assets.
(para. 75, 81, 100-102)



. v -
xix While it would have been useful for the Bank to participate in the privatization activity,
this would have been difficult given the mix of rolitical and economic objectives which the
government pursued in devising its privatization plan. The growing experience of developing
countries in the formulation of these plans will mean that these governments will be more
. ling to set their own agenda and to rely on expertise from commercial banks or financial
consultants in structuring their deals. (para. 82, 104)
xx. The experience in technical assistance was not dissimilar to that in other projects except
that most of the difficulties were overcome and the technical assistance components were
completed. The two most important lessons from this experience are the need for a strong
and long-term commitment on the part of the senior management and the requirement for
more of the Bank's staff time in resolving problems which occurs while implementing this
assistance. (para. 96-98)



MALAYSIA
PORT KELANG PROJECT (LOANS 2686-MA 2687-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Prolect Identitv
Project Name:    Port Kelang Project
Loan No.:        2616-MA, 2687-MA
RVP Unit:        East Asia and Pacific
Country:         Malavsia
Sector:          Transport
Subsector:       Maritime Ports
Backround
1. The Bank had been involved in the transport sector in a variety ot road and port
investments. Most recently, the lending to the port sector has been focused in Sabah. An
informal review of the maritime subsector was conducted by the Bank in 1985'. It
highlighted the lack of coordination and weak management in the transport sector which had
constrained the development of an effective national intermodal transport system. Within the
maritime subsector, the review noted the potential for over-investment by the different
national ports in their competition for international cargoes, both direct and feeder traffic.
2. During a review of possible projects for Bank support in 1985, the Government of
Malaysia proposed that the Bank and thc Asian Development Bank (ADB) provide assistance
in expanding Port Kelang to the island of Pulau Lumut (the West Port Project). A feasibility
study for the project had been prepared by the Port Kelang Authority (LPK - Lembaga
Pelabuhan Kelang) in 1981 and the detailed design and land reclamation had begun in 1984
following the completion of the expansion of the North Port facilities. From the
government's perspective, the project would provide the capacity to meet the growth in traffic
as forecast in the Maritime Sector Review. From the Bank's perspective, this project would
provide an opportunity to once again become involved in project lending to the maritime
sector in Peninsular Malaysia and to initiate a policy dialogue with the government on
improving the integration of the port into the country's transport system.
3. The project as originally proposed included the construction of roads and bridges to access
the island, an island wharf with 600 meters of multi-purpose berths and two piers, one each
for petrochemicals and lighterage of dangerous cargoes, and the reclamation of shoreline for
the backup area. The total cost of the project was estimated to be M$0.50 billion ($197.2
million) including the cost of land acquisition. Of this, the foreign exchange component was
estimated to be slightly more than half, most of which would be covered jointly by the Bank
and the ADB.
Maritime Sector Report - June 1985



4. A preparation mission from the Bank and the ADB visited Malaysia in May/June of 1985
in response to a request from the Government of Malaysia to discuss the West Port
development. These discussions involved the Economic Planning Unit (EPU), the Federal
Treasury, the Ministry of Transport (MOI) and the LPK The mission agreed that additional
capacity was required and indicated it would consider funding the project provided that it
proved financiallv and economically viable. The Bank and ADB indicated that, if the project
were feasible, the former would provide funds, estimated to be on the order of US$50 million,
for construction of the West Port expansion and the latter would provide funds, estimated to
be US$46.5 million, for construction of the access roads and bridges.
5. Since the mission was uncertain whether such a large investment was justified at that time,
an alternative project was identified. The project involved the construction of a single berth
to meet short term capacity requirements. The project would not only delay the construction
of West Port but also provide additional time for the LPK to improve the design of West
Port. This delay could also be used to complete settlement of the reclaimed area and to
construct the roads and bridges to Pulau Lumut so that they would be ready for
transportation of construction materials to the island.
6. In July/August 1985, an appraisal mission was carried out which determined that the West
Port project was only marginally justified. Since, the country was experiencing an economic
slowdown and the Government was beginning to experience budgetary cutbacks. a decision
was made to construct the single berth. This not only allowed the investment in West Port
to be delayed by fwe to six years but also provided an extra berth to meet the growth in
demand while the issue of privatization was being sorted out. Since the external funding
required was only about $18.0 million, the ADB decided not to participate in the project.
7. Additional issues were identilied during these two missions. A proposal from LPK's
management to reduce the port's tariff so as to compete more etfectivelv with Singapore lead
the Bank to propose establishing a cost-based tariff and a tariff unit within the management.
The negotiations between the government and private sector parties interested in taking over
the container operations of the port were in progress and the Bank recommended a closer
examination of the possible arrangements for privatization. Difficulties in removing
containers from the port due to problems with road transport lead the Bank to propose a
railroad pilot project for intermodal movement of containers and a study of the problem of
the regulated and inefficient container haulage industry.
Profect Description and Oblectives
8. The final project focused on the construction of a general cargo berth at the site of Berth
15 which at the time was being used to moor LPKCs tugboats and pilot boats. This general
cargo berth would connect Berths 14 and 16 and would be designed for eventual convetsion
to a container berth. The backup area behind berths 15 through 18 would be paved for their
future conversion to container handlin& The vessels moored at the site of Berth 15 were to
redeployed at a new marine pier and berthing facility to be constructed at the south end of
North Port. A manne administraton building and operations tower were to be built at the
base of the pier. Finally, a pair of breasting dolphins were to be built at the POL facilities,
Berths 22-23, to allow the liquid bulk terminal to handle three smaller tankers simultaneously.



*3 -
9. As pat of the project, a program of technical assistance was developed to strengthen the
port management in three areas, training, MIS and marketing. A total of 122 man-months
of technical assistance was to be provided over a three year period. In the area of training,
foreign technical assistants were to be used to assess current training needs, assist in course
development, train local trainers and organize courses for two months a year over a three
year period. The general subjects to be covered by the courses were port operations,
engineering and management as well as equipment operations and maintenance. In addition,
US$365 thousand was to spent on training materials and equipment.
10. In the area of marketing. 16 man-months of consulting services were to be provided to
assist in trade and market relations, advertising, acquisition of marketing data and
identification of transportation bottlenecks. Also, 10 man-months of visits and internships
were to be provided for LPK's marketing staff so that thev might work with marketing
organizations in other ports. In the area of MIS, 34 man-months of consulting services were
to be provided to design the software and hardware needed to automate the port's
Management Information System. Funds were also provided to procure and install the
hardware. to test the system and to train the staff in its use.
i 1. In addition to the port project. a complementary pilot project was prepared to assist the
Malayan Railways (KTM) in operating a dedicated unit train service for intermodal movement
of containers between Port Kelang and Kuala Lumpur. 1This project involved upgrading the
track between Port Kelang and Brickfields. adding a track to the yard in Port Kelang.
providing switching to bypass the Kelang Railway Station, and constructing and equipping a
container yard adjacent to the existing Brickfields railyard on the outskirts of Kuala Lumpur.
Te pilot project also included technical assistance to train members of KTM's freight
department in the operation of an intermodal containcr service.
12. The executing agencies for the port project and the railroad pilot project were LPK and
KIM, respectively. LPK was to be responsible for preparing the engineering documents and
tendering for the construction of civil works including Berth 15, the new marine base and
administration building, and the breasting dolphins. LPK was also to be responsible for
establishing and staffing a Management Development Unit (MDU) and for preparing thc
tender documents for the hardware required for the MIS. KTM was to be responsible for
contracting for replacement of the rail on the line between Port Kelang and the Brickfields
Yard, for developing the tender documents for the construction of the container yard at
Brickfields and for procuring container handling equipment.
13. The port project was funded through a Bank loan of US$16.7 million to the LPK with
the government of Malaysia acting as the Guarantor. This loan was to cover all of the costs
for the consultants and material provided as part of the technical assistance and 47% of the
cost for the civHil works. The remaining project costs were to be provided from LPK's
reserves. The railroad pilot project was funded through a Bank loan of US$2.1 million to the
Government of Malaysia. The loan was to fund all of the costs for the container-handling
equipment, material and technical assistance and 34% of the costs for the civil works. This
loan was converted by the government into a grant and disbursed as part of the government's
annual operating budget for the railroad. The remaining costs for the project were provided
for by a government loan to KIM. The Bank loans were signed in June of 1986 and became
effective in August of that year.



.4-
ProMmct ImDlementatton
14. Proiect Schedule The project experienced a number of delays during implementation (a
summary is shown in Part III, Table 3). At the time that the Bank loan became effective, the
project design was already well advanced as had been anticipated in the SAR. The design of
the Marine Base and berthing facility had been completed in April of 1986. The loan
provided for some retroactive financing so that the project might proweed as rapidly as
possible, however, the actual construction was delayed because the planned site was within
the boundaries of the recently privatized Kelang Container Terminal (KCT).' This required
negotiations with the Selangor State Development Corporation for the purchase of a piece
of land adjoining the original site.
15. An agreement in principle for purchase of the land was signed with the State of Selangor
in September of 1986 and the contract for the Marine Office was issued in the same month.
but the final boundary and property transfer was not completed until January of 1987.
Furthermore, the LPK had been advised by its consultants in December of 1986 that the
berthing facility should be realigned so at to be parallel with the main North Port wharf in
order to minimize siltation. Despite these changes. LPK produced and issued the revised
drawings to the contractors in January/February 1987 so that construction could begin as soon
as the land was obtained. The facilities were completed in December of 1987.
16. Although the original scheduled called for work on Berth 15 to begin midway through
completion of the Marine Base, this was not possible because the vessels moored at the site
could not be removed until the Marine Base was completed. The contract for Berth 15 was
finally awarded in December of 1987 and construction began in the following month
approximately one year behind schedule. Construction was completed in March of 1990. The
longer than expected construction period was due to an alternativc piling technology which
had to be used in order not to damage the adjoining structures. Thc contract tbr the
Breasting Dolphins was awarded in January of 1988 and the work was completed in February
of 1989. The delay in the construction of Berth 15 required that the period of loan 2687-MA
be extended from December 1989 to December 1990.
17. The implementation of the technical assistance (T.A.) component of the port project was
more problematic due to the continual revision of the program by LP}'s management and
prolonged negotiations with the consultants. The period of implementation was extended by
dividing each of the three TA. components into two phases, an identification phase and an
implementation phase. As a result, a total of six contracts had to be negotiated. This
decision was taken because LPK's management had difficulty in deciding what their future
training needs would be. The Bank agreed to this decision in order to move ahead after a
long delay.
2 Although the decision to privatize had been made prior to the Bank's preparation
mission, the exact nature of the privatization and the configuration of the KCT terminal was
not described until after the loan became effective. When the original plan for the Marine
Base was prepared, the boundaries of the KCI had not been specified nor had the need to
establish a closed-in area for exclusive use of the private sector operator been suggested.



-~~~~~~~~~~~5
- 5 -
18. The first phase of each T. A. component was scheduled to begin in June of 1986. The
first component to actually be contracted was Phase I of the MIS study. It began in
December of 1986 and was completed in April of 1987. This was followed by a long period
of review at the end of which the management, at the urging of Data Processing (EDP)
Department, decided to change both the scope of the technical assistance and the consultants
to be employed. The second phase began in April 1989 and the consultants' report was
subnitted later that year.
19. The first phase of the marketing study started in January of 1987. The initial
reconnaissance report was submitted the following month, but the approval for the second
phase was not given until January of 1988. The draft report for the second phase was
submitted in June of that year and the final report was received in November.
20. The training component was the most difficult. Internal dissension from competing ports
and within LPK:s management delayed the decision on the exact form of the MDU. The
Phase I contract was not signed until June 1988 about two years behind schedule. Although
the consultants' report with recommendations for Phase II was received in November 1988.
the LPK's management did not approve the second phase until six months later, and then
only after it had reduced the period of the contract from three years to two. The contract did
not take effect until the middle of October 1989 and subsequently. LPK requested a further
extension of the closing date for loan 2687-MA to December 1991.
21. The implementation of the railroad pilot project experienced an initial delay of 17
months because the government did not include the project tunds in the railroad's operating
budget. The Bank's loan was to the Government and was to be passed on to KTM in the
form of a grant. but the government chose not to draw on the loan funds and only made the
grant to the KTM in 1988. KTMvl's lack of familiarity with the Bank's procurement
procedures required re-bidding certain contracts which caused additional delavs. however.
these delays were relatively minor. The replacement of the track between Kelang and Kuala
Lumpur started in July of 1988 and was completed in February of 1989. The civil works for
the Brickfields Depot started in July 1988 and were completed in April 1989. The container-
handling equipment was delivered in March 1989. The technical assistance began in early
1988 with the overseas training taking place in April/June 1988. The consultants submitted
their final report in June 1989 about 21 months after the originally scheduled date for project
completion.
22. Changes in Project Design Both the port project and the railroad pilot project
underwent a number of significant changes in design during the period of implementation.
however, these changes do not appear to have compromised the objectives of the project.
The design of the civil works for Port Kelang were modified to meet the changing needs at
North Port. The Marine Base was moved southward to avoid interfering with the operations
at KCT and the pier was extended 60 meters to line up with the wharf face in North Port.
The alignment of Berth 15 was revised from a straight continuation of Berth 16 (leaving a
slight notch at the intersection with Berth 14) to a point-to-point alignment connecting Berths
14 and 16. The Bank preferred the former because it allowed for continuation of the gantry
crane rails from Berth 16. The LPK preferred the latter because it simplified vessel berthing
procedures.



-6-
23. LPK also decided not to pave the backup area behind berths 15 to 18 after it had decided
to begin the conversion to container terminals starting at Berth 21 and proceeding southward
rather than preceding north from Berth 15. This decision was based on the lower cost of
conversion for Berths 19-21. As a result of these changes, Berth 15, which was designed as
a multi-purpose berth for eventual conversion to containers, is unlikely to be used for this
purpose. It is now being equipped with conveyors to handle bulk shipments of palm kernel
expeiler. Since LPK's Engineering Department was capable of implementing the design
changes, they only required the Bank's concurrence which was given.
24. Changes were also made in the Port Kelang technical assistance program. The intent of
these decisions was to scale down and redirect the projecte3 In the marketing study, the
consultants proposed to use several subject-matter specialists in the second phase, but this was
scaled down to two experts with a resulting contraction in the scope of their report and
marketing plan. Although the study suggested modifications in the Marketing Department,
technical assistance was never provided to develop the capability of the staff of the Marketing
Department in basic market research Furthermore, the LPK management never arranged
for the marketing internships for their staff. A follow-on effort aimed at strengthening the
Marketing Department would have been useful. but the LPK management did not fully
appreciate the role of marketing and has done little to develop this capability since. the end
of the technical assistance.
25. The MIS component was meant to redress earlier failures of management to implement
an MIS system. The first phase study provided an excellent set of recommendations for
completing the development of the existing MIS system. However, the implementation of
these recommendations was stymied by management's inability to agree on a consistent set
of information requirements. As a rcsult. the second phase was redirected towards
development of a Conventional Cargo Management System (CCMS). which had been
proposed bv the EDP Department prior to the start of the project. Price Waterhouse was
hired to conduct an audit of the proposed CCMS system and other EDP activities and
recommended undertaking the development of this system. LPK management supported this
decision because it would provide accurate performance data on the operations at the
conventional cargo berths. This system has yet to be completed and will be of limited use to
LPK following privatization.
26. There was little that the Bank could do to maintain the focus on the MIS system once
LPKs management decided not to implement the MIS as outlined in the Phase I study.
Subsequent development of the software was done with the LPK funds. The computer for
the MIS was then procured with LPK funds in order to expedite procurement following
announcement that the vendor would no longer support LPK's existing mainframe.
27. The training component began with a training needs assessment followed by a lengthy
preparation for the second phase. The definition of a function for the proposed MDU had
to contend with the competing interests of LPK's existing training department, the
TRAINMAR center in Johore with its "training-of-trainers" orientation, and the on-going
I At one point, the management of LPK suggested canceling most of the second phase
of the program, but the Bank was able to argue for continuing the program.



training activities of the other ports in Malaysia. The management reduced the period and
budget for the second phase, but the scope of work was left unchanged. Very little training
equipment was procured and the MDU had to operate without designated training facilities
throughout the project. The Bank mediated at several points in order that this component
would continue.
28 The railroad pilot project was implemented in accordance with the original design. The
only alteration was the decision to use the 80 lb. rails removed as part of another project.
rather than new rails, to replace the lighter rails on the line between Port Kelang and Kuaha
Lumpur. The Bank approved this decision. as it expedited the project, and then approved
the use of the loan funds to replenish KTM's rail inventory.
29. Project Costs The actual cost of the port project was less than half that originally
estimated (as shown in Part IIL Tables 5.a., 5.b, and 5.c) and there was almost no foreign
exchange cost except for the T.A. components. There are several reasons for this. The
construction of Berth 15 and the breasting dolphins was undertaken at a time of worldwide
recession in the construction industry. This affected the bids so that the price was only half
that of the original estimate and all the construction was done by local firms. Additional
savings were realized when it was decided not to pave the backup area of Berths 15 through
18. Also the expenditures for technical assistance were less than estimated because of
reductions in the scope of the component.
30. As a result of the reduction in project cost, LPK required far less funds than provided
in the loan agreement. In order to reduce its exposure to commitment fees, LPK canceled
US$9.223 million of its loan in February 1988 and another US$2.0 million in March 1991.
The remaining amount, US$5.5 million. was almost completely disbursed at the time the loan
closed.
31. In contrast, the total expenditures on the railroad pilot project were nearly identical to
that originally estimated. The onlv difference from the original estimate was the increase in
expenditures for civil works and the decrease in expenditures for equipment and consultancy.
The full amount of the loan to the Government of Malaysia was passed on to the KTM in
the form of a single grant at the beginning of 1988. The actual disbursements continued until
April of 1990.
32 Due to the delays in project implementation and the subsequent cancellation of a
significant portion of the LPK loan, the total amount disbursed was only 1/3 of that originally
planned and the major part of the disbursement occurred a year later than anticipated. The
difference is quite striking as shown in Part ILL Figure L.a. The disbursements for the
railroad pilot project were completed and the project closed two years before the
disbursements for the port project as shown in Part III, Figure 1.b.
33. Changes in Transport Sector and Regulatoty Environment A number of changes in the
transport sector and its regulatory cnvironment occurred during the period of the Bank loan
and these had a major impact on the implementation of the project. At the macro-economic
level, the country went througb a recession in the period from 1986 though 1987. The
decision to delay the investment in West Port and to develop Berth 15 in its place preceded
the recession. However, the port management adopted a cautious attitude towards all



- 8 -
expenditures during the project. Despite initial enthusiasm for the technical assistance, the
management of LPK spent a considerable amount of time trying to cut back on these
components. The recession also caused the government to delay granting a budget to the
KTM for the railroad project.
34. T!he other change in policy which had a major impact on the project was the decision of
the Government of Malaysia to encourage privatization of public transport facilities, in
particular, the maritime ports. The first phase of the port privatization took place in 1986
and affected the container handling activities at LPK!s Berths 8 through 10. It involved
establishing a subsidiary company, Kelang Container Terminal (KCT), owned jointly by LPK
and a private sector joint venture Konas Terminal Kelang (KTK).4 KUC was given a license
to provide container handling services in Port Kelang and a 21 year lease for Berths 8-10.
LPK!s container handling equipment was transferred to KCT. These arrangements denied
the LPK a major source of net income and left it with a surplus of about 1000 laborers, who
were not transferred to the subsidiary company (see Annex D).
35. The second phase of the privatization was initially discussed in 1986 and a financial study
was made to value the port in 1988. However, the scope of privatization was not determined
until late in 1990 when the plan to transfer all port operations, excluding KC1, to a single
operator was finalized. The uncertainty regarding the scope and torm of the second phase
privatization lead to a certain amount of paralysis within the management of LPK during the
period 1986 to 1990. It affected the scope of the technical assistance components. because
the management was unsure as to whether the benefits from these components would be
retained by LPK transferred to the private sector operator, or lost in the conversion from
a public to a private operating port.
36. The government's policv on container haulage was changed during this project. In the
Bank's original Issues Paper and in subsequent discussions leading up to loan agreement. it
had been observed that the government's policy ot restricting contamer haulage to three
companies created a monopoly situation with poor intermodal service and unnecessarily high
transport costs. However, nothing was done until early in 1992. when the government
increased the number of operators to five. This lead to a drop in rates and more aggrcssive
marketing of the service to accommodate the increase in chassis capacity.5 This has directly
affected KITM which has seen a significant drop in its share of the container haulage market.
4 lhe term private sector is used loosely in this context. A better term would be partial
financial divestiture. KTK was originally owned 80o by Kontena Nasional which is in tum
owned by the Bumiputra Investment Fund (80o) a wholly-ownel government company,
PERNAS (7.5%) and Malaysian Intemational Shipping (7.5%), two government shipping
companies, plus others (3%). AU of these are govemment enterprises. The remaining 20%
was held by a publicly traded Australian shipping company, P&O Australia.
s The staying power of this competition is unclear. In a previous expansion. Shapadu. in
the south, and Konsortium Kumpulan, in the north, were brought in to compete with
Kontena NasionaL Initially, there were significant improvements in service and the rates
dropped. However. the three companies soon established their market share and colluded
to maintain their rates. The Bank and others have pushed for open competition but the
government maintains a policy of limiting access and investment in road haulage of containers.



37. In a related change in policy, the government has allowed KTM to operate a trucking
company, Multi-freight, to provide door-to-door service for container haulage. The
management of KIM has used Multi-freight not only to complete rail-based, multi-modal
container movements but also to provide complete door-to-door road transport on routes
where truck transport is less costly than the combination of rail and truck transport. The
result has been to significantly reduce the number of boxes moved by rail between Port
Kelang and Brickfields.
38. The railroad has also been affected by the Government's policy towards privatization.
Currently K`M is in the process of being converted to a public corporation and is expected
to be privatized within the next five years. While these changes have not had the same
paralyzing effect on management that they did on LPK, they did cause KTM to rethink the
markets they serve and to refocus on their primary businesses, passengers. freight and land
development. This has led to a more cautious approach towards multi-modal services as the
competition has increased.
Project Results
39. Before considering the impacts of the port project. it is necessary to examine the changes
which have occurred in Port Kelang over the last six years. This has been an extremely active
period in terms of the development of infrastructure and the transfer of cargo handling
operations to the private sector. These changes are as follows:
X 1986    - suspend construction of West Port
* 1986    - transfer Berths 8-10 to private operation
* 1989   - establish a terminal for timber exports behind Berth 19
o 1990)   - complete construction of Berth IS
* 1991    - restart construction of West Port
* 1991/92 - convert Berth 11 to containers for use by private sector
* 1992/93 - convert Berths 19-21 to container berths
e 1992    - equip Berth 15 with a conveyor for palm kernel expeller
* 1992    - transfer control of Berths 12-25 in North Port and
all berths in South Port to private operation
There are also a number of projects planned or underway which will further alter the port.
These include:
o 1994    - opening of West Port Phase I with two liquid bulk berths and
600 meters of conventional cargo berths to be operated by LPK
o 1995    - opening of West Port Phase II with five general cargo berths
o 1995    - conversion of Berths 16-18 to container berths (tentative)
40. Genera1 Objectives In order to evaluate the results of the project, it is necessary to
consider the general objectives of the investment The civil works in Port Kelang were
intended to provide capacity to meet the increase in traffic and to permit a delay of five to
six years in the start up of the much larger investment in West Port This goal has been
achieved with the construction of West Port occurring about 4% years later than originally



- 10-
planned. In addition, Berth 15 has provided essential capacity during the period when other
breakbulk berths have been taken out of service for conversion to containers.
41. Tbe technical assistance component of the port project was meant to strengthen the LPK
management in the areas of training, MIS and marketing. As a result of this project, the port
has:
a. a marketing plan, which has furthered the port's efforts to develop dty
ports, to introduce rebates to volume users and to seek out new trades,
b. a greater awareness of the need for marketing,
c. a staffed management training center and an embryonic set of training
courses, and
d. a stronger MIS capability, albeit in the form of distributed, un-integrated.
systems.
42. The railroad pilot project was intended to strengthen the ability of the KTM to operate
unit trains for intermodal movements of containers. As a result of the project, a multi-modal
unit was established in the Freight Division. It is headed by an intermodal marketing
manager and has separate divisions for selling to the shipping lines and to the shippers and
consignees. The volume of intermodal movements tripled during the project reaching 105
thousand twenty-foot equivalent units (TEU's) in 1991. This was in contrast to the uneven
growth experienced in the early 1980's (see Annex E).
43. The improvement of the track between Port Kelang and Kuala Lumpur has allowed a
significant increase in operating speed, so that KTM has been able to double the number of
trains operating daily. KIM has also upgraded its rolling stock through conversions and new
acquisitions so that now 29% of its bogied wagons and 19% of its rLxed axle wagons are
specifically designed to carry containers. KTM has also begun to promote the use of domestic
containers in order to increase the utilization of these wagons. These domestic boxes are
designed for side loading and have been used for the transport of rice, rubber and other
agricultural products.
44. Specific Desigi Goals The projects have been less successful in achieving the specific
goals for which the facilities were designed. Berth 15 was intended to be used for breakbulk
cargo and for later conversion to a container berth. However, it is unlikely that it will ever
be used for containers given expected cargo demand, the alignment chosen by LPKC, and the
development of West Port
45. The route for the railroad pilot project was recommended because of the road congestion
between Port Kelang and Kuala Lumpur. Its proximity to the KTM headquarters also added
to the visibility of the detnonstration project, however, the route was not expected to be
fnancialyr rviable over the long run. Ihe volume of containers moved by MM in and out of
Port Kelang was reonably strong for the first few years, reaching 52.4 trhousand TEU's in
1991. Of these, 63% were loaded boxs However, the primary origins/destinations were Prai
' Even though the technology now exists for overcoming this relatively small angle when
moving a gantry crane between Berths 15 and 16.



- -1 -
and Sungai Way (Annex E) and Brickfields accounted fot only about 20%c of these
movements.
46. KTM's competition from road transport has increased as new operators and chassis have
been brought into the market. Road haulage prices have now fallen to a level equal to or
below the rail rates. As a result, KTM has lost about half of fts container traffic between
Brickfields and Port Kelang and will probably continue to lose market share to truck
operators. KTM management has decided to aggressively pursue this traffic through the use
of its own road haulier which has meant that nearly all of the traffic to the destinations
between the port and Brickfields, especiaUly the industrial area of Petaling Jaya, has switched
to truclk The 1992 decision to cut back on the use of unit trains throughout the system
threatens to accelerate the loss in market share.
47. The technical assistance components for the port project have not achieved their specific
goals. The marketing component increased management's awareness of the need for
marketing, however, this component failed to develop a marketing research capability.
Recommendations for changes in the department were not implemented and the department's
sales-oriented focus on specialized markets rather than towards a general market research
capability has continued. Although management has accepted the need for marketing. it has
not allocated the resources needed to strengthen this function.
48. The MIS component failed, as have previous etforts. to develop an integrated, computer-
based information system. Data continues to be collected, and in many cases processed,
manually, and managers are still presented with relatively voluminous and unfocused reports.
Despite the movement away from an MIS, the LPK's EDi Department has implemented
many of the recommendations in the Phase I report. It has also been successful in making
the transition to micro-computer based systems and has trained the staff in all Departments
to use spreadsheet analysis at a relatively sophisticated level. As a result, Dcpartmcnts can
now produce their own management reports. The missing element remains the integration
of the operational and financial performance data.
49. The training component has so far failed to meet its goals of creating a national center
for training, developing meaningful courses and training the MDU staff in the presentation
of these courses. However, the effort to establish an effective, stand-alone, management
training function continues. The staff are now permanently assigned to their positions and
are continuing to organize and conduct courses. Following the second round of privatization,
the MOT will assume responsibility for funding the MDU, although it will continue to
operate within the management structure of LPK
50. The technical assistance program provided in the railroad pilot project was extremely
successful in developing a cadre of professionals capable of providing an efficient intermodal
service. Unfortunately, there appears to be little continuity. These professionals have been
promoted into new areas and have taken their experience with them. The new management
of the Freight Department exhibits much less enthusiasm for intermodal container operations.
The senior management's determination to develop its container road haulage business has
further diminished their enthusiasm.



- 12 -
51. Financial Performance The port serves four basic types of cargoes, containers, breakbulk.
Iiquid bulk, and dry bulk Although individual berths are dedicated to specific cargoes in the
short run. there is considerable flexibility in converting berths from breakbulk cargo to
containers or dry bull. The construction of Berth 15 did not add to the capacity for a specific
cargo, but rather, added to the overall capacity of North Port. So far there has been
relatively fittle change in either the revenues or operating expenditures of North Port as a
result of adding this berth, but the additional berth space has given the port the flexibility to
remove other berths from service for conversion to container operations. By so doing, it has
allowed the development of West Port to be delayed by several years. The construction of
the dolphins was meant to increase the capacity of Berths 22 and 23, thereby delaying the
need for additional POL berths.
52. The decision to delay the investment in West Port did not change the design for this
development. LPK's proposal still includes the two loading jetties for POL. a hazardous
cargo jetty, and a 600 meter wharf for conventional cargoes. The original cost was estimated
to be M$500 million including all cow ingencies. Construction was to begin in January of
1987 with operation to begin early in 1990. In order to meet this schedule, the LPK was
prepared to pre-finance the construction of the bridges. rather than wait for government
budgeting of the project. and to recover the costs from the government.
53. The experience with Berth 15 and the POL dolphins indicates that the actual cost for
West Port in 1987 would have been lower than originally estimated. It is assumed that the
cost would have been the same as currnntly projected, about M$300 million. The savings
from delaying the investment in West Port can be determined by comparing the stream of
expenditures for constructing Berth 15 and then West Port Phases I and II under the current
schedule with the expenditure stream for constructing Phase I of West Port in three years
beginning in 1987 followed by Phase II as currently scheduled. This comparison is shown in
Table 1. Since the implementation of Phase II is the same for both alternatives. it has not
been included in this Table. The annual operating and maintenance costs were assumed to
be insignificant for Berth 15 but equal to M$4.5 million for Phase I of West Port. The
present value of the stream of net savings amounts to about $M64 million in 1992 when using
a discount rate in constant terms of 10%. Even if the start of Phase I of West Port would
have been delayed until 1988, the net savings would still be $M31 million.
54. The general financial performance of the port changed considerably during the period that
the project was being implemented, but these changes occurred primarily because of the
privatization of the container operations. The sharp increase in the operating ratio in 1986
shown in Table 2 (details in Part III, Table 7) is attributable to the loss in revenues from
container handling and the cost of the excess container terminal labor which stayed with LPK
rather than being transferred to KCT. In subsequent years, this excess labor problem was
eliminated through a combination of attrition and growth in non-container traffic. Therefore,
the operating ratio improved rapidly after 1987 and by 1991 had returned to its 1981 level.



- 13 -
Table 1
Relative Capital Costs for Different Investments (millions M$)
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
..- - .                                -       -       -.-
Berth 15           3.7    13.9     9.7     3.3
Phase 1-1991                          |  50.0    58.5    66.8   105.2    20.7
Addit. O&M                 _                                                3.0
Subtotal           3.7    13.9     9.7    53.3    58.5    66.8   105.2    23.7
Phase 1-1987   100.0  100.0  100.0    -         -
~-             .  --_              -    .  -4        - 
Addit. O&M                                 4.5     4.5     4.5     4.       4.5
Subtotal         100.0   100.0   100.0     4.5     4.5     4.5     4.5      4.5
Net Savinp        96.3    86.1    903 E488    -540 1-623   -100.7   -192
55. The same situation applies for the rate of return on assets, equity and capital employed.
The privatization of KCT reduced the amount of LPK's fixed assets by only M$20.7 million
because these assets were carried on the books in historical value. At the same time there
was a significant drop in net income. The subsequent recovery of these performance
measures in 1990 anld 1991 is due entirely to the increase in traffic and the reduction in the
excess labor. Most of the port's operating costs are fixed so the increase in traffic
represented a gain in the operating surplus. This surplus had dropped from M$47.7 million
in 1985 to M$12.0 million in 1986 but then rose steadily to M$71.5 in 1990.
Table 2
Financial Performance Measures
Performance Indicators       1986  1987   1988   1989   1990   19(1 i
Operating Ratio               0.90  0.89   0.78   0.68   0.59   0.65
a __ -_-
Net Income/Operat.Revenue     0.05  0.09   0.15   0.23   0.29   0.27
Return on Assets          |89%  9.2%  11.0%  14.6%  19.1%  19.1%
Return on Equity              1.7%  2.7%| 5.3%   82%  10.8%  10.4%
Return on Capital Employed   4.9%  52%   6.3%   8.0%  10.1%  10.0o
56. At the time the Bank loan was made, LPK had about M$312 million in long term debt
but it also had about M$200 million in liquid assets. Clearly, LPK had the option of financing
the development of Berth 15 with its own reserves. The loan did not significantly increase
the LPK's debt-to-equity ratio because the receipts from the sale of stock in KCT were
greater than the amount of the loan and were used to pay-off outstanding loans.



- 14 -
57. 'Me railway pilot project had no specific financial goals, however, it appears likely that
KIM's financial performance has been improved by the increase in its container traffic. The
percentage of total revenues provided by container traffic is estimated to have increased from
10%o in 1986 to about 22% in 1991. Since KTM continues to operate at a loss and therefore
relies heavily on government subsidies for all investments (Annex A), the precise financial
impact of the project is difficult to determine.
58 Economic Benefits and Evaluation Berth 15 was meant to provide additional capacity
for breakbulk cargo in expectation that some of the existing breakbulk cargo berths would be
converted to containers. What has occurred since the project was initiated is a major change
in the allocation of the berths to the different cargoes, a transfer of responsibility for the
operations at the container berths from the public sector to the private sector. and an
increase in the capacity of these berths due to an increase in productivity.
59. The privatization of Berths 8.10 lead to an initial increase in productivity of about 20%
which effectively delayed the requirement for an additional container berth until 1992.
However, this increase was a one-time atfair resulting in large part from the reduction in the
container work force by more than half. Since 1987, KCT has not improved the productivity
of these berths (Annex D). As a result, the average time at berth for container vessels
remains about 11 hours while the average waiting time has steadily increased with the growth
in traffic (Annex B).
60. The LPK has also failed to increase productivity significantly. Breakbulk handling rates
per gang are relatively unchanged in North Port (Annex B) while the average time at berth
for foreign-going general cargo vessels has nearly doubled since 1986. The total volume of
- onventional cargo has grown more rapidly as a result of the establishment of a timber export
terminal behind Berth 19. As a result, the average delay for torcign-going brcakbulk vesscls
reached six hours in 1989 and nine hours per vessel in 1991 (Annex B).
61. The delay in investment in the conventional cargo berths at West Port has led to a higher
occupancy at North Port and a greater average delay for breakbulk cargo vessels. With the
current forecast of conventional cargo traffic and the conversion of Berth 11 to a container
berth for use by KCT, a severe shortage of capacity is expected in 1993. The problem will
continue through the first half of 1994 until the berths at West Port become operational.
The projected breakbulk traffic may preclude the conversion of Berths 19 to 21 to exclusive
use as container berths until 1995 when both Phases I and II of West Port are completed.
The rise in congestion and the change in berth capacity will affect the benefits derived from
the construction of Berth 15.
62. The benefits that can be attributed to the construction of Berth 15 and the POL dolphins
depend on the scenario as to what wouW have happened if the investment had not been
made. The 'delayed investment' scenario assumes that no construction of new facilities would
have occurred until 1991 when Phase I and Phase II of the West Port would have begun as
currently scheduled so that the additional eight conventional/container cargo berths and two
POL berths would have become operational between mid-1994 and 1995. The "accelerated
investment" scenario assumes that the construction of Phase I of West Port would have gone
ahead as scheduled from 1987 to 1989 and operation of the 600 meters of conventional cargo
berths and two POL dolphins would have commenced in 1990. The second Phase of the



- 15-
construction would have proceeded as currently scheduled and tive additional conventional
cargo berths would have become operational in 1995.
63. In both scenarios, it is assumed that the conversion of existing berths to container berths
will occur as scheduled for Berths 19-21 in 1993 and for two additional berths in 1999. It is
also assumed that the productivity of the conventional berths will increase following the
second phase of privatization. Since nearly all of the labor will be transferred from LPK to
the private operator, the increase in berth productivity will have to be achieved through
better supervision and management control. An initial improvement of 20% is assumed, not
unlike that achieved in the transfer of KCT to the private sector. Thereafter, improvements
are expected to continue at a rate of 3% per annum.
64. With the "delayed investment" scenario, the benefit from construction of Berth 15 and
the dolphins is a reduction in the levels of occupancy and vessel delays due to the availability
of an additional berth. The average value of ship's waiting time for conventional cargo vessels
is assumed to be US$6,000 per day (M$625/hour at the mid-1992 rate of conversion). The
increment in operating and maintenance costs which result from the introduction of Berth 15
are assumed to be insignificant, however the cost of operating and maintaining Phase I and
II is expected to total M$7.5 million per year. The calculation of the level of occupancv and
resulting delays with and without Berth 15 are shown in Annex C. Table 2. and the
comparison of costs and benetits is presented in Annex C, Table 3. When the benefits are
compared with the capital cost for Berth 15 and tne dolphins, this scenario has an internal
rate of return of 15.5% indicating that the decision to construct these facilities was
economically justified. This is less than the 32% estimated in the SAR which foresaw a
greater cost of delay for conventional cargo vessels with a traffic forecast similar to the actual.
65. For the "accelerated investment" scenario, the benefit from constructing Berth 15 is the
reduction in the present value of the capital expenditure as a result of delaying the start of
Phase I of West Port by 41/2 years. This benefit is balanced against the capiLal cosLs for
construction of Berth 15 and the dolphins and the cost for the additional waiting time
resulting from higher occupancy at the other conventional cargo berths in North Port. The
calculation of the occupancies and additional delays are shown in Annex C, Table 2 and the
comparison of additional costs and savings is shown in Annex C, Table 4. This scenario has
an NPV of M$51.7 million (at the beginning of 1991 with a discount rate of 10%o)' indicating
that the construction of Berth 15 and the dolphins followed by the both phases of West Port
was less costly then constructing Phase I first and then five years later starting Phase IL
66. These benefits are concerned exclusively with the marginal impacts on conventional cargo
berths. It is assumed that the development of facilities for containers takes priority over
those for conventional cargoes. Therefore, the increase in container capacity would have
been the same for all scenarios. Berth 15 reduced the congestion on the conventional cargo
An IRR calculation has Uittle meaning when considering a delay in investmenL The
NPV for the "delayed investment" scenario is M$17.1 million (beginning of 1991, discount rate
10%)



- 16-
berths in North Port which resulted from the conversion of Berths 11 and 19-21 to container
berths.8
67. The benefits from the construction of the breasting dolphins at Berths 22 and 23 could
not be determined from the available statistics. The vessels calling at these berths are
relatively smalL handling only a few thousand tons per call. The total number of vessels
calling at these berths was 474 in 1990 and 459 in 1991. The effect of the dolphins was to
increase the number of effective berths to 2., thus reducing the occupancy from about 60%
to its current level of 48%. The implied reduction in delay time would be between 25% and
50%.9 Assuming an average reduction of 3 hours and an average cost for the vessels of
about M$450 per hour, the reduction in delay resulting from the breasting dolphins is worth
about M$0.6 million per year. This would increase the IRR for the "delayed investment"
scenario to 18% and the NPV for the "accelerated investment" scenario to M$56.1 million.
68 Given the demonstration nature of the Railway Pilot Project (LN2686-MA), no attempt
was made to calculate the benefits as part of the SAR and none have been attempted here.
It would be difficult to estimate the benefits since the haulage of containers by rails remain
in a state of flux. Furthermore. the future benefits of the railroad haulage of containers will
be realized not on the line between Kelang and Kuala Lumpur but over the longer routes
between the Port Kelang and Penang and eventually between Kuala Lumpur and Singapore
and Thailand. The benetit of this pilot project was the expertise and incentives developed
for KTM to expand its intermodal activities. It remains to be seen if the current management
will be able to maintain or expand its market share or whether it will allow the container
services to deteriorate into movements on mixed freight trains with relatively long transit
times.
69. Studies Several studies were carried out as part of the technical assistance. These have
been described above. Both the marketing studv and the MIS studv provided usefui
guidelines for future development. The study on the elimination of impediments to the flow
of goods to and from Port Kelang was prepared by the marketing consultant. It suggested
that the principal bottleneck was the inetficiency of the landside transport as a result of
government regulation and the lack of competition.
70. At the request of LPK, the Bank carried out a review of the economic feasibility of the
West Port development in conjunction with the conversion of Berths 19 to 21 to containers.
The estimated IRR was only 13%, but a sensitivity test of the effect of delaying the project
projected a serious increase in congestion along with a rapid escalation of IRR. This study,
conducted in 1988, gave additional priority to starting the project as soon as possible. It
'In the SAR, the benefits were computed separately for the container and conventional
cargo berths. However, since the existing container berths operate independently, the
benefits from construction of Berth 15 were assumed to accrue only to the remaining
conventional cargo berths.
9 'The delay figures presented in Annex C for the liquid bulk terminals appear unrelated
to the occupancy figures, which themselves suffer from methodological problems. As a result,
the estimate of benefits required considerable interpretation of the available statistics.



- 17 -
confirmed the need to begin construction of West Port by 1992 and recommended that work
on the road and bridges begin as soon as possible so that work on the port facilities could
begin by this time.
71. Covenants The covenants included in the loans to Port Kelang and to the Government
of Malaysia were complied with except for two relatively minor infractions (Part III, Table
9 ). The requirement for an operating ratio of no more than 73% proved impractical given
the amount of excess labor left with LPK following the KCT privatization. However,
following a three year period of high ratios, LPK was able to lower its operating ratio below
this target. Similarly, the requirement for LPK and KTM to make timely submissions of
annual audited financial statements was not enforceable in the initial years of the project
because these organizations had no control over the time required by the Auditor General
to complete the audit of their books. The changeover to a private auditing firm resolved this
problem for LPK, but KTM continues to be subject to the delays of the Auditor GeneraL
72. The remaining covenants to the loan were complied with. However, even when the
covenants were complied with, the results were not always as intended. LPK's assets were
revalued in 1987 by their accounting staff and the results were submitted to the Bank as
required. However, these results were never formally introduced into the LPK's annual
accounts. Instead, LPK continues to report its financial performance based on the historical
value of its assets. The loan covenants did not require that the revised assets be used to
compute the financial performance ratios. This decision has allowed the port to continue
reporting reasonable rates of return on assets and low operating ratios. It also leaves the port
without an understanding of its costs, especially given the increasingly capital-intensive nature
of its operations.
73. The LPK carried out a study to revise its tariff so as to be more in line with its costs.
Their proposed revision focused on simplifying the relatively cumbersome taritf structure
which had been inherited from the railroads, but failed to propose a rationalization of the
charges. In particular. it failed to recommend a dockage fee to encourage efficient use of the
already congested berths. The report was submitted to the MOT for approval but LPK's
management subsequently withdrew the proposal contending that it was not necessary in view
of the upcoming Phase II privatization. This was a serious strategic mistake on the part of
LPKY The private sector will have to operate under the old tariff, which has been in effect
for about 15 years, and this will seriously reduce the value of the port to the private sector.
74. Privatization An examination of the project would not be complete without considering
the effects of privatization on the project and on the port as a whole.' The port
privatization began as a general program for privatization in the early 1980's and was directed
1This process of Port Kelang's privatization has received extensive review. Among the
Bank's publications on this activity are 'Privatization in Transport: The Case of Port Kelang
Container Terminal", H. Levy and A. Menendez, EDI Working Papers; "Malaysia: Genesis
of a Privatization Transaction", R. Leeds, World Development V.17 N.5, 1989; and "Welfare
Consequences of Selling Public Enterprises : Case Studies from Chile, Malaysia, Mexico and
the U.K - Malaysia", L Jones and F. A. Abbas, Country Economics Department Conference
Paper, 1992.



- 18-
by an Inter-Ministerial Committee under the chairmanship of the Director General of the
Economic Planning Unit. This program was not only directed at reducing the financial and
administrative burden of the government and increasing the efficiency of the organizations
to be privatizecL but it was also intended to stimulate economic growth while encouraging
Bumiputra entrepreneurship. Port Kelang was chosen as the first entity to be "privatized"
because it was visible and profitable but suffered from excessive bureaucratic interference and
was inefficient by international standards.
75. Because the govemment had no experience in privatization, it contracted a local
merchant bank and two foreign firms, which were familiar with privatization activities
elsewhere in the world, to assist in preparing Port Kelang for privatization. Their report was
submitted in December 1984. This same group assisted the government in preparing
invitations to bid and in reviewing the qualifications of the bidders. In the end. six consortia
submitted approved bids in January 1985. Each included a foreign partner to provide
technical expertise. The winning bid was announced in March of 1985 and the same group
was retained to assist in negotiations with the winning bidder. The mnost contentious issue in
the negotiations was the status of the port workers and the Prime Minister became directly
involved in order to sort out this issue. In the end, nearly all of the labor was retained as
employees of either the joint venture or of LPK only a few were given early retirement.
76. The joint venture was given the franchise for container handling at this terminal. It was
required to absorb less than half of the labor which had been previously been associated with
the terminal. The agreement called for the joint venture to purchase LPK's container
equipment and any additional equipment required for efficient operation. In return for the
payment of an annual rental and throughput charge, the joint venture was allowed to collect
all of the cargo-handling charges stipulated in the port tariff for vessels calling at the terminal.
The users of the port benefitted from this arrangemcnt because the tariftts remained
unchanged while the level of service improved dramatically in the first year of operation.
Since then, the productivity has not increased but neither have the tariffs.
77. While it is generally agreed that the financial condition of the LPK was negativelv
affected by the privatization agreement, it is useful to consider the actual impact." The
effect of the transfer of the container operations to KCT was to deprive the LPK of a
significant source of revenue while providing a relatively small initial payment and a very small
annual rent. The M$1SOEU throughput charge for any TEU's above a specified threshold
limit proved to be the largest source of revenue due to a more rapid than expected growth
in traffic. However, this charge only applies up to the year 1994, thereafter, a sliding scale
from M$40TEU to M$24ITEU will apply. Even with this charge, the port has still sutfered
a net loss as a result of the privatization. The calculation in Annex D suggests that the loss
in cash flow to the port from privatization of the container operations will amount to M$289
I A recent Bank study by Galal, Jones, et. al, argues that the overall benefit to the
country was positive. Their analysis focuses on the performance of KCT whereas the current
analysis focuses on the performance of LPUK



19 -
million in 1986 Present Value for the first ten years of the agreement or approximately M$1
billion in 1992 Present Value for the life of the agreement.'
78. The financial performance of LPK will change substantially in the coming year as a result
of the upcoming privatization of the remainder of the port. Although the agreement for the
second round of privatization of the port is to be structured slightly differently, it remains to
be seen whether the terms will be more equitable. It appears that the private sector will
absorb almost all of the labor under an agreement that the workers cannot be terminated for
the fist five years of the agreement. The LPK will assume the role of landlord and will
administer the agreements while continuing to develop West Port. Once West Port is
completed, it is expected that these berths will be leased to other private sector operators.
79. The Bank did not participate in or provide assistance to the Government in its first round
of privatization. At the time of the preparation mission, the government was still establishing
its goals. The Bank staff interacted with the port officials on several of the technical issues
related to privatization, but most of the decisions were being made at the ministerial leveL
The initial round of privatization was nearly completed at the time of SAR. Had there been
an opportunity for greater participation by the Bank, it is likely that there would have been
a conflict of objectives. As part of the project, the Bank had argued for an opening up of
the container haulage industry. At the same time, the government was effecting a vertical
integration of the industry by allowing the major container haulier to take over Port Kelang's
container terminal. This difference in approach would have hindered any Bank participation
in the second round of privatization.
80. The negotiations for the second phase of privatization were begun in 1986 and continued
up through 1990 when KPN was selected to take over both the North and South Port
operations. KPN is a joint ventuire. It includes KTK the joint venture which managres KCT.
as a 40% shareholder, Malavsian International Shipping as a 22Y/:2% sharcholder. and Lhree
shareholders, Selangor State, Shapadu (another of the container hauliers) and, a company
owned by a wealthy Malaysian businessman, each owning 121/2%. This represents a further
vertical integration of the container transport industry and does little to reduce government's
role in this sector.
81. The option for Bank participation in the second phase was severely limited not only
because of policy differences but also because the government already had considerable
experience in "privatization" having converted the national airlines, telecommunications and
shipping company into public corporations (with the government maintaining a dominant
role). Local financial firms were employed to perform evaluations and have showed
increasing sophistication in their evaluations.
| Tis estimate involves a number of assumptions which are detailed in Annex D. The
basic assumption is that the growth of traffic would have been the same. It has been argued
that, without the improvement in productivity introduced by the private sector, this growth
would have been constrained. It should be noted that the NPV refers only to the loss in
income to the LPK, not the govemrnmnt, since the government is also the principal owner of
the "private sector" participant in KCT.



- 20 -
Institutional Performance
82. Borrower and Executing Ageencies Performance The Government acting through the
MOT and EPU was instrumental in identifying the project, and establishing a revised scope.
These agencies also assisted in resolving some of the more contentious issues with regards to
the training project. The major negative in their performance was the confusion that was
generated by the government's approach to privatization of the port. It is inevitable that,
when a government decides to transfer public assets to the private sector and to select whom
in the private sector will be given these assets, an effort will be made to maintain secrecy
regarding the decisions made and the negotiations with the private sector. However. the
failure to provide LPK with a clear indication of its future has made it difficult to effectively
implement the port project. The only other impediment by the government was the decision
to delay the railway pilot project for 17 months by not providing KTM with a budget for this
project.
83. The LPK management performed extremely efficiently and professionally in designing
and contracting for the civil works. It showed much less professionalism when planning and
contracting for technical assistance. During the initial years of the project, the management
suffered from a considerable amount of internal conflict. Added to this was a concern on the
part of the senior management with cutting costs. The lack of clear objectives with regards
to the technical assistance components led to a lengthy internal debates as to the scope of
these efforts with frequent referrals to the Board of Directors for guidance. Only in the final
years of the project did the management seemed to steady in its resolve, but by then the
components had been considerably weakened.
84. The KThl's management performed all of its tasks with efficiency and enthusiasm.
Where it failed was in not sustaining the institutional development required for cticient
operation and aggressive development of intermodal transport. It remains to be seen whether
the upcoming privatization will restore the priority given to intermodal operations.
85. Consultants The performance of the consultants was generally good. The construction
companies which were selected under Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) for the Marine Base
and under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for Berth 15 performed well. They had
extensive experience in port construction, many having worked on earlier civil works projects
in Port Kelang. The consultants for the MIS and marketing components also performed well.
The report submitted in Phase I of the MIS component was thorough and useful. The
consultant's for the second Phase provided a less insightful report, but the output was suited
to the requirements of the LPK The studies for the marketing component were also
extremely useful even though the consultants were not able to go into depth in many of the
marketing areas because of the reduction in budget. Although the interaction between the
Marketing staff and consultant was extremely productive, the period of their contract was not
sufficient to allow for the needed institutional strengthening.
86. The performance of the consultants for the Training component was less than acceptable.
The consultants were selected even though they had much less experience in the area of
training than the other bidders. The first training coordinator sent to Port Kelang did not
have much experience in the area of training. Furthermore, the LPK had failed to provide
training for its counterpart staff before the coordinator arrived. although LPK had agreed to



- 21 -
do so. The initial training seminars proved to be disastrous and compromised MUD's
reputation with the shipping community as well as with the port management. The first
training coordinator was replaced after one year with an individual more experienced in the
techniques of training, but the new coordinator was unable to regain the lost momentum.
87. The responsibility for the poor performance of the training component rests equally with
the consultants and LPK management. The management delayed the contracting of this
activity and then reduced its budget and period of time. The consultants agreed to the
contract although neither the scope nor the personnel had been changed to reflect the delay
and reduction in budget. The support provided by the consultant's head office was extremely
weak. This led to uncertainties as to who would be presenting seminars and how long they
would be available for interaction with MDU staff. In the end, the quality of presenters was
very low and the consultants did not allow them sufficient time to assist in the development
of the courses.
88. Bank's Performance The Bank was instrumental in redesigning the port project to a
smaller and more economically efficient format. It also led in the decision to include the
railroad pilot project in the loan package and in the formulation of the technical assistance
components. In the end, it was the offer of the Bank's technical expertise and support which
convinced the Government and the LPK to accept these loans even though alternative
funding was readily available.
89. The SAR provided a good basis for guiding the implementation of the project. Most of
the proposed civil works were completed according to the LPKCs original proposal. The SAR
faile,d to consider the possibility that the future development of the container berths might
proceed southward from Berth 21, since the LPK's original plan had been for an expansion
northward in continuation of the existing KCT berths."
90. The SAR provided an outline of the technical assistance components, their objectives and
level of effort, but most of the details were to be worked out in the identification phase of
these projects. Therefore the SAR was less effective in guiding the outcome of these
activities. Although the Bank had received assurances as to the interest of the LPK in
undertaking these technical assistance components, it failed to anticipate the level of
supervision required for these components to be successful. Regular supervisory missions
were performed, and additional short missions were made to assist in moving the technical
assistance ahead (Part IIL Table 10). Bank officials also sought out the assistance of the
EPU and MOT officials to resolve problems in implementing these components, and in some
cases were able to move the components ahead. The Bank's failure in this situation was not
in the supervision but in anticipation of the difficulties in obtaining consensus and consistency
from a weak and fragmented port management.
91. Although the covenants were relatively standard, some of them proved to be problematic.
In the end, the Bank chose to overlook early failures to comply with the covenants. This
13 It was the second round of privatization which allowed for the separation of KCT and
the new container berths that permitted the less costly expansion from Berth 21.



- 22 -
proved to be the more expeditious than revising the terms of the loan, since by the end of
the project these covenants were complied with.
92. Project Documentation and Data LPK maintained good documentation on the project
which was supported by the financial and operational data normally collected and reported
by the management. The privatization of KCr reduced the amount of information available
concerning container operations, otherwise, there was sufficient data to evaluate the impacts
of the project. The quality of the quwrterly reports submitted to the Bank by the LPK
declined over time in part because they did not receive direct feedback from the Bank as to
the usefulness of these reports. The LPK met all additional requests for data made during
the performance of the PCR.
93. KTM's documentation was not as well organized as LPK's. but all the necessary financial
and performance data were obtained and both the Freight Department and the Accounting
Department provided additional information to assist in completing this report.
Conclusions and Sustainabllitl
94. The civil works components of the project succeeded in meeting their objectives. In the
case of Port Kelang, they provided additional capacity to reduce the overall level of berth
occupancy and resulting vessel delay. In the case of KTM. they provided a demonstration
unit train service for containers moving between Port Kelang and Kuala Lumpur. The
estimated rate of return on the port project was acceptable. but this was due in large part to
the lower than expected cost of construction for the berth facilities.
95. The technical assistance components suffercd from a lack of commitment on the part of
LPK's management and poor performance by the consultants for the training component.
The lack of commitment was due not only to the uncertainties about the future role of the
port but also to LPK's cautious, and often contentious. style of management. The decision
to allow the management to design the technical assistance program through a two-phase
effort of identification and implementation made sense given the uncertain environment, but
it resulted in delay and in a reduction and re-orientation of the scope of these
components.
96. The TA components achieved only a few of their objectives. This is not an uncommon
result because of the greater difficulty in providing effective technical assistance. Although
the results were less than intended, the management did complete all components and the
targeted management functions have been strengthened. Now, however, the lack of follow-on
activity in all components except management training may limit the long-term impacts of this
effort.
97. The technical assistance component for KTM proceeded according to the original scope
and level of effort. Ihe results were a greatly strcngthened management function in the area
of intermodal transport. However, there was no follow-on training for the successors to the
previous managers, and it is possible that the benefits of the technical assistance will be lost.



- 23 -
98. The objectives of encouraging a more efficient use of part resources by introducing a
cost-based tariffs and providing a more realistic estimate of the port's financial returns
through the use of revalued assets were not achieved. The loan covenants stated only that
these activities be undertaken. Since there was no connection with LPK's management
objectives, the LPK& quite reasonably, fulfilled the terms of the covenant without achieving
its intention. Technical assistance to strengthen management's understanding and use of
these changes might have led to a more useful outcome.
99. Any question of the success and sustainability of the project must address the underlyving
issue of privatization which was occurring during the project. The initial round of
privatization of Port Kelang's container facilities resulted in a significant financial loss to the
port. It also produced very little improvement in berth productivity, despite the low price and
favorable labor situation given to KCITs owners. As a result, the financially weaker LPK had
to continue its investment in new container facilities with little change in schedule since the
capacity of the KCI berths were not significantly above those that could have been achieved
by LPK
100. LPK's lack of knowledge as to the scope of the second round of privatization left the
management with considerable uncertainty as to its future role and its ability to realize the
benefits from future expansion. The decision to transfer most of the LPK staff to the new
private sector operator indicates that management's indecisiveness and ambivalence towards
future development from 1986 through 1990 was not without cause.'
101. The anticipation of privatization of KIM has had a quite different impact. The
increasing orientation towards profitability has caused a rethinking of the role of intermodal
transport. It is expected that the relatively short hauls. which suffer from a competitive
disadvantage relative to truck transport. will be phased out rapidly. and in their placc will be
the longer haul container movements especiallv for those movements to and from Thailand
and Singapore.
102. The experiences of this project demonstrate the need for flexibility when funding a
project in a business environment which is in tlux. This flexibility will inevitably require a
greater commitment of personnel on the part of both the Bank and the executing agency.
The LWK responded to the changing environment by modifying its plans for converting the
container berths and by adjusting its loan commitment. The Bank responded quickly to these
proposals as well as to the changes in the TA components.
u The decision of the government to privatize the remainder of the port as a single entity
and to transfer this entity to a joint venture, whose major shareholder already controls KCI,
raises serious questions of the efficacy of the whole privatization effort. However, there are
certain elements in the new agreement which might open the door to a limited amount of
competition in the future.



- 24
103. With regard to the decision to delav the larger investment in West Port, there is a
question as to whether the decision to restart the project should have been taken a year
earlier. LPK should have undertaken an annual review of the feasibility of that project as
recommended by the Bank rather than a single update of the feasibility study in 1988. even
though the results would not necessarily have been different.
104. While the relationship between the Bank and the executing agencies was good, there
is little option for follow-on. There are a number of reasons for this:
o  the preference of Malaysian public agencies for local commercial funding
sources which provide comparable terms without the foreign exchange risk.
*  the government's desire to move quickly once a consensus decision has been
reached, and
e  the understandable reluctance on the part of the government to open its
investment decisions to external scrutiny with the attendant delays for review.
105. It is difficult to say whether the Bank could have been involved in the major investment
decision regarding privatization of Port Kelang, the development of West Port and the
preparation of a Master Plan for the port. These- would have required a considerable
commitment of Bank staff resources with only a limited potential for continued dialogue.
Some effort was made in these areas, but without the level of commitment to allow the Bank
to seek a major role in these activities. Overall. it is likely that the government would have
been reluctant to involve the Bank in the evolving privatization, since this was largely a
political process.



MALAYSIA
PORT KEIANG PROJECT (LOANS 2686-M. 2687-M)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ANNEXES



A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. LPK - lncome and Expense Staemend
Lembaga Pelabuhan Kebng
_________ _Income & Expenditure Account 1984.1991
1984         1985          1988          1987         1988          1989         1090         1991
Continer Tralfic
VW RT                     3.837         4,166         4,313         4.933        6.152         7,298        9.136        12t175
868          3.56         14.40         24.79         18.69       2529          33.39X
TEUs                       241           245           242          276           326           399         497           607
1.7X         -1.2A        14.0          18.1         22.39        24.79     _22I1
Operak  _ _ _ 
Ships                                   39,009        35.005        30.543       32.039        35.299        39.913      41.190        44.362
Cargo                                   49,841        45.935       33,539        33.702        40,463        44,084      54.594        60.501
Container Seth                          64.323        63.642        12.864        1,592         1.792         1,786       1.502         2,125
S     _vedodng                          30.838        27.536       20.486        21.340        24,602       27.077       29.039        30.907
Rent                                     6.929         6,409        19,016       23,033        24.515       33.917       44.684        60.065
Sundry hoome                             2.557         3,33s,       5,688         4,451         4.174        4,847        4,197         4,463
Subtotdl      193.297      181,861       122,135       116.157      130.845       151.624      175,206      202.423
Ojierathnp   A Amhlarel
Opeons                                  32.545        32.651        24.066       20.459        20,882        25.137      28.599        32.024
Ma bntnae                               19,585        28,998        14.590       11,230        12182         11.179      10.977        10.982
S l_edoeV                               25,370        23.280       22,501        22,004        21.815        21,587      21.748        22.943
Sect"'uY                                 3,650         3,784        3,859         3.911         4.018        4.220        4.496         4.792
Administration & General                17,955        19.240        19,973       19,394        20,812        19,696      19.148        28.808
Deprclato                               27.795        26.187       22,158        22,082        20,456        19,910      16.933        17.233
Specala Sevioe Expendtre                    0             0         3.000         4,578         2.279          757        1,706        15.390             t
Subtotal      126.900      134.140       110,147       103,658      102.424       102.486      103,607       132,172
Operabt  Stwrpjs                          66,397        47.721        11,988        12,499       28.421        49.138      71.599        70,251
Non-Oplhafti   me
OideAs                                       0            0         2,078             0            0             0
Invesbmets                              16.342        19,656       21,385        22,414        20,156       22.305       21.637        30.672
Sundry boome                             2,306         2436         2.211             0            0             0
Gain on Disposa d Assets                                              178             0            0             0
Oth                                          0            0             9         2550           837          2,884       3,794         1,904
Subtotal       18.648       22.092        25.851        24,964       20,993        25.189       25,431        3t576
4n.-O,wWJsrg Egpenciawe
Interes                                 25,888        26,806       27.245        23,428        18.950        16.901      14,710        11.431
Loss on 0sposel of Assets                4,919          608             0             0            0             0
SpecW Srvices Expendture                 6.290         4.862            0             0            0             0
SubotWa       37.097        32.276        27.245        23.428        18,950       16,901       14.710        11.431
Surplis &Bo.e T4=Dauo &
Rxrrno*.dy l7mS                           47,948        37,537        10.594        14,035       30,464        57.426      8,320         91.396
Taxaion                                 21,600        1,900        4.02?         4,110        10.286       23,258       31.637        36.827
Surpis &foe Eia. lkems                    26.348        20,637         6.567         9.925       20,178        34.168       50,683       54.569
Ext. Item Lss Taatoim                          0            0         94.495
araird dSurgis For The Year               26.348        20.637       101,082        9.925        20.178        34,168      50.683        54.589
Opekaing Rafio                            0.66          0.74         0.90          089           0.78         0.68         0.59          0.65



2. LPK Balance Sheet
Lembaga Pelabuhan Kelag
_________                            Balance Sheet 1984.1991
1984        1985         1986        1987         1988         1989       1990         1991
Fixed Asute                           419,468     411,130      381,575      361,708     355,492      349,973     343.253     345,177
Interet in Assocfted Company0                           0       54,696       55,709      56,958       64,497     75,001       68.896
Other Investments                       2,253       2,001        2.003           3           0            0                      75
Loan Recsvable
eceivable after twelve mronth        33,138      41,635       45,838      45,416       47,634       47,2tO     48,674       49,238
Current Asseb
Stores and Materials                  4,942       5,225        1,726        1,487       1,396        1,568       1.580       1,453
Accounts Recevalbl                   35,029      34,288       18,763       22,704      22,530       24,301      25,566      21,688
Loan Peeivabe-CArent Porlon           1,707       2,290        2,450        2,236       2,402        2,429       1.852       2,077
Deposits with Fhnancial Inttom      184,700     184,700      213,500      182,031     176,500      186,300     218,800     278,100
Bank and Cash Balances                 972        7,817        4,585        5,527       3,377        5,136        540          587
Subtotal    227,350      234.320      241,024     213,985      206,205     219,734     248,338      303.905
Current Usbilitles
Creditos                             10,805       15,767       7,353       13,466      15,756       13.391      14,451      24.544
Loans Repayable Wthn 12 Mont         11,168      11,733        9,063       8,448       10,366       10,210      8,190       36,211
Taxation                             42,417      32,741       18,791        9,126      14,436       23,964      48,907      70,139  s
Subtota      64,390       60,241       35,207      31,040       40,558      47,565      71,548      130,894
Currert Asset-Curret Uabi_    162,960             174,079      205,817      182,945     165.647      172,169     176.790     173,011
Tota Assets-Crent Uablity             617,819     628,845      689,A-9      645,781     625,731      633,849     643,718     656.397
Lorng Term Loans                      359,8B0     350,186      312,028      275,270     241.084      216,589     178,203     135,920
Defered Taxation                        1,159       1,183        1,201       7,937        2,600        (761)      (2,82        (2,821)
Subtotal    361,039      351,369      313,229     283,207      243,684     215,828     175,382      133,099
altV-2                                            277,476      376,70       37                       41                      52,9
FINANCED BY:
Retaned Eamlns,Govnt Grant            256,780     277,480      378,786      364,818     384,996      419,164    469.847      524,973
Exchange Adjuent Account         _     _                          _          (2,244      (2,949)      (1.143)     (1,411)     (1,675)
Subtotal    256,780      277,480      378,786     362,574      382,047      418,021    468,436      523,298
Deterred Taxation for 1984-86 refers to category other reserves



3. LPK - Sources and Applicaon of funds
Latibaga Petabuhan Ketang
Soticfes and Appioatlon of Funds
1986        1987         1988         1989        1990         1991
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Surpus be"e taation                   10,593       14,035      30.464       57,426      82.320       91.396
Ad4ustroent:                                                                             1761,9
Fbed assets expensed                                                         757        1,706       15,390
DepreatIon                          22,158       22,082       20,456        19,910     16,933       17.233
Amotation of foreign                                321          457          193         302          463
ewhaelobse
(Gln)Loss on Sale of                  (178)        (117)       1,447          243        (724)         624
FMed Assots                                                        _
Funds gewweated from Opwalion        32,573       36,321       52,824       78,529     100.537      125.106
Funds tfrom otwh sources
ProceedS fom sale ofixed              411          117          204                      724        1,009
assets                           111.624
Tenn lans                           24.247       6,236         4,649        5.572        680          966
Prooeeds for sale of Ivestments                  2,000            3
Amount due rom Assoc Co.                          1,072
Inuance Claims                       5,346
A*usbmnts from Prior Yoars            246                                     _             _
141,874       9,425        4,856        5,572       1,404        1,975                            .
174,44       45746        5768         84,101     10,4   ______                                  o
_ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _      _ _ _  _ _                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00
APPUCATION OF FUNDS
Loans reoevable                                   1,813
Purchased of fixed assets            9,074       6,982        15,891       15,391     11,919       35,625
Taxation paid                       22,625       12,514       10,312       17,091      8,754        15,594
Repayment of Term Loans             65,056      53,068        38,080      28.610      41,656        16,029
Amount due from assoo. o.           54.696                     1,249       7,539       10,504       13,895
151,451      74,377       65,532       68,631      72,633       81.143
22= 996      W2B631)      (7 85        5 7        2   e8        5 
INCRASE (DECREASE) IN WORWIJNG
Stoes and naterials                 (2,110)        (240)         (91)        172          12          (127)
Debtor                             (13,279)       1.927        1,287        1,771       1.365       (3,978)
Loans reoeiab4e                      4,203        (198)         (18)        (397)        887          790
Credhors                             8,413         406        (1,349)      2365        (1,060)     (10,094)
(2,773)      1,895         (171)       3.911       1,204      (13,409)
Movment Not Workng Capital
Bar and cosh balanoes               (3,031)        942        (2,150)      1,759      (4.596)          47
Deposits wih financial instiuons   28,800       (31 468)      (5,531)      9,800      32,500       59,300
25,769      (30,526)      (7,681)      1 1.59     27,904       59,347
22,996      (28,631)      (752)        15,470     29,10        45,938



X 29 -
4. KTM - Income and Expense Statement
Keretapi Tanah Melayu
Income and Expense Statement
Operating Revenues                      1989            1990            1991
Passenger                          73,552 148     76,059,803      76,902,848
Freight                            71,126,964     76,074,592      77,545,493
Parcels & Mail                      7,047,883      7,560,757       8,061,045
Miscellaneous                       1,109,440      2,505,065       1,118,455
Subtotal    152,836,435     162,200,217    163,627,841
Operatln ExRgnses
Maintenance of Way & Works         31,351,591     31,586,609      30,086,078
Maintenance of Rolling Stock       26,246,885     13,784,395      44,893,400
Traffic Operations                 75,689,804     88,629,916      66,988,787
General Adminsitration             10,697,659      9,951,075       9,613,766
Signalling and Communications       5,936.261      6,641,418       6,502,656
Provision for Depreciation         42,086,695     38,434,027      39,150,568
Subtotal    192,008,895     189,027,440     197,235,255
Operating Profit                   (39,172,460)    (26,827,223)   (33,607,414)
Non-Operating Revenues
Rental                              9,346,366      8,865,705      12,633,812
Interest on Investments            2,698,381       2,576,686       1,854,783
Amortization of Govnt. Grant        2,459,098      2,926,650       1,847,425
Miscellaneous                       8,779,701      9,391,653       9,734,475
Subtotal     23,283,546      23,760,694     26,070,495
Non-Operating Expenditures
Provision for Doubtful Debt        3,959,669       2,431.060       3,111,872
800.000
Non-recurrent Expenditure           8,130,990     15,735,678      19,563,388
Deferrred Expenditure                408,018         529,971        767,002
Subtotal     12,498,677      18,696,709     24,242,262
Non-Operating Prfit                 10,784,869      5,063,985       1,828,233
Total Profit                       (28,387,591)    (21,763,238)    (31,779,181)
Interest on Loan                   (58,638,568)    (62,425,160)   (58,739,269)
Income Tax                                           (189,768)
Prof it Beferm Eardiwry
items                             (87,026,159)    (84,378,166)    (90,518,450)
Extraordinary Items                (19,040,159)    (29,249,800)    (21,317,551)
Profit(loss) for the Year         (106,066,31 8)    (113,627,966)    (111,836,001)



- 30 -
5. KTM- Balance Sheet
Keretapi Tanah Melayu
Balance Sheet
1989            1990            1991
Fixed Assets                       980,998,550    1,107,639,996    1,243,121,342
Investments In EauIties                976,501       1,081,500       1,581,499
Current Assets
Inventories                        76,936,102      66,974,036      65,201,584
Sundry Debtors                     57,982449       32556,786       29,718,155
Cash on Hand & in Bank             36,497,904      47,754,644      17,310,524
Deferred Expenditures                               2,119,882       2.538,037
Subtotal    171,416,455     149,405,348     114,768,300
Current Uabilltles
Sundry Creditors                   52,827,679      78,600,931      75,367,467
Provisions                        257,946,643     348,254,080     428,656,874
Deposits                            6,523,696       7,589,114      11,281,918
Subtotal    317,298,018     434,444,125     515,306,259
Net Current Assets                (145,881,5(ij    (285,038,777)   400,537,959
Plus Fixed Assets                 836,093,488     823,682,719     844,164,882
Lona Term Debt
Federal Government Loan          1.180,773,976    1,272,035,608    1,311,137,557
Foreign Loans                      51,631,671      41,126,320      26.309,913
Local Loans                        .Z. 2,025,000                   39,435,450
Subtotal    1,232.405,647    1,315,186,928  1,376,882,920
E9ultV                            (396,312,159)    (491,504,209)    (532,718,038)
Financed 8By:
Capital and Reserves
Federal Government Equity         194,459,261     194,459,261     194,459,261
Fire fnsuranca Reseives               288250          288,250         288,250
Federal Government Grant           73,727,831      92,163,747     162.785,919
Subtotal    268,475,342     286,911,258     357,533,430
Cumulative Profit (Loss?         (664,7 87,50)    (778,415,467)    (890,251,468)
Total    (396,312,159)    (491,504,209)    (532,718,038)



B. PERFORMANCE STATISTICS
1. Type of Commodities Handled at Port Kelang (tonnes)
1986 |      1987        19881        1989       1990 1     1991
IMPORTS                          _
Fertilizer                          481         668         867          727        863         897
Chemical                            222         284         369          419        512         564
Iron & Steel                        561         663        1,013        1.176      1,439      1,870
CKD Vehiles Parts                    53          42          76          119         177        168
Machineiy&ComputerParts             124         167         176          294        423         425
Sugar in Bulk & Bags                179         200         227          222        256         251
Wheat Grain Bulk & Bags             199         196         262          178        362         429
Rice                                 12          28          38           45         46          71
Paper (ncl. Reels N/Prints)         274         256         337          349        395         514
Palm Oil Bulk                        81          29           1            1          4          30
General Cargo                       939        1,004       1,302        1,382      1.846      2,509
Petroleum&OfterLiqud              1,703        1,752       1,842        2.017      2.418      2,594
Cement Bulk                         206         139         148          230        409        451
Maize Bulk                          146         161         244          221        258        316
Coal                                                        446          936       1,247      1.339
TOTAL                             5.179       5,589        7,348        8,315     10.656 i       12,427
EXPORTS                                                 __
Fertilizer                           47          47          67           62         72          86
Iron & Steel                         96         153         154          130        179         210
Rice                                  0           0           0            1          0           0
Palm Oil Bulk                     1,123         892         810          857       1.069      1,077
Rubber                              566         599         634          565        522         534
Timber                              681         929         899         1.047       984         898
Plywood                              84         128         133          131        104         142
Latex In DOum & Bulk                199         221         248          208        173         196
Palm Kernel Oil Bulk                188         147         107          132        189         156
Palm Kernel Waste                   336         288         280          398        356         332
General Cargo                       970        1,165       1,426        1,674      1.848      2,470
Petroleum & Other LiquLd              3          14           1           14          9           5
TOTAL               _             4,293       4,584        4,759        5,218      5.505      6,107



2. Port Kelang Container Statistics - Actual and Projected
Actual
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989         1990    1991
Total General Cargo            8,672    8,306    7,477    8,488   10,326   12,039   14,301   18,043
Conventional Cargo             4,835    4,140    3,164    3,555    4,174    4,741    5,165    5,868
Containerized Cargo
000's revenue tons            3,837    4,166    4,313    4,933    6,152    7,298    9,136   12,175
000's TEU's                     241      245      242      276      326      399      497      607
Percentage Containerization                %
Conventfal Cargo                44%      50%      58%      58%      60%      61%      64%      67%
Containerizable Cargo           31%      33%      35%      37%      39%      40%      41%      46
Rate of Growth
Conventional                            -14.4%   -23.6%    12.4%    17.4%    13.6%     8.9%    13.6
Container                                 8.6%     3.5%    14.4%    24.7%    18.6%    25.2%    33.3q
Forecast
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998          1999    2000
Total General Cargo           20,807   22,708   24,500   26,270   27,981   29,620   31,343   33,112   34,708
Conventional Cargo             6,481    6,949    7,290    7,592    7,697    7.752    7,847    7,974    7,931
Containerized Cargo
000's revenue tons           14,326   15,758   17,210   18,679   20,284   21,868   23,496   25,139   26,777
000's TEU's                     735      808      883      958    1,040    1,121    1,205    1,289    1,373
Percentage Containerization
Convential Cargo                69%      69%      70%      71%      72%      74%      75%      76%      77%
Containerizable Cargo           49%      49%      50%      51%      53%      54%      55%      56%      580/c
Rate of Growth
Conventional                    10.5%     7.2%     4.9%     4.1%     1.4%     0.7%     1.2%     1.6%    -0.50/Y
Container                       17.7%    10.0%     9.2%     8.5%     8.6%     7.8%     7.4%     7.0%     6.5/



Total Number of Ships Handled at Pot Kelang
For 1986-1991
Type d Ships                    1986          1987          1988          1989         1990          1991
Contahin                           1.197          1,257         1.453        1,680         1884         2159
DOy Ebk                              222           205           228          259           334          391
UquLd Bulk                         1,012           927           877           986         1032         1055
General Cargo                      1,931          1,858         1.920        2,014         2055         2186
Others                               111           190           163           176          135          119
TOTAL                              4,473          4,437         4,641        5.115        5,440         5.910
Number of Containers Handled at Port Kelang
For 1986-1991
Import (TEU's)                  1986          1987          1988          1989         1990          1991
FCL                    79,661        85,547       106,498      135,321       184,797      229.689
LCL                    15,618        17,030        19,787       24.494       28,467        28,992
MTs                   27,825         39,648        42579       50.012       42,083        46.432
TOTAL        123,104       142.225       168.864      209,827       255,347      305.113
Export (TEU'S)
FCL                    67,238        88.534       107,247      130,472       157,697      197.451
LCL                   26.367         27,023        30,936       33,802       31,045        29.004
MTs                   25.495         17,918        18,596       24,947       52,437        76,058
TOTAL        119.100       133,475       156,779      189,221       241,179      302.513



4. Port Kelang Container Statitistics
Number of TEUS per Container Vessel Call
_   _        ___       ~~~~~ ~~~1986  1987     198          198         199        1991
Import                 103         113         116          125        136        141
Export                  99         106         108          113        1281       140
Total                  202         219         224          238        264        281
Growth in Container Traffic
-1r71986       1987        1988         1989       1990       1991
Loaded TEUs                     189         218         264         324         402        485
% Annual Increase              15%         21%         23%         24%        21%
Vessels                         1,197      1,257       1,453       1,680       1,884      2,159
% Annual Increase              5%          16%          16%        12%        15%
Number of Containers Handled at Port Kelang
Import (TEU's)                  1986       1987        1988         1989        1990      1991
FCL                   79.7        85.5       106.5        135.3      184.8      229.7
LCL                   15.6        17.0        19.8         24.5       28.5       29.0
MTs                   27.8        39.6        42.6         50.0       42.1       46.4
TOTAL       123.1       142.2       168.9        209.8      255.3     305.1
Export (TEU's)
FCL                   67.2        88.5       107.2        130.5      157.7      197.5
LCL                   26.4        27.0        30.9         33.8       31.0       29.0
MTs                   25.5        17.9        18.6         24.9       52.4       76.1
TOTAL       119.1       133.5       156.8        189.2     241.2      302.5



5. Nortlh Port Vessel and Tonnage Statistics
Vcssels             Dry Cargo           Liquid Cargo          Total Cargo
Berth No     Type          1990      1991        1990       1991      1990      1991        1990       1991
8-10    Container        1,884    2,159    8,842,473  11,821,399)                     8,842,473  11,821,399
11     Gen.Cargo          158       23      343,2(4    26,72()                         343,204     26,720
12    Gen.Cargo           81        91      340,4h3    394,225                        340,463     394,225
13    Gen.Cargo           143      121      360,388    335,0()4                       360,388     335,004
14    (Gen.Cargo          95       130      209,860    377,681      625                270,485    377,681
15     Gen.Cargo          181      241      452,650    710,102                         452,650    710,102
16     Gen.Cargo          172      153      489,423    485,367                        489,423     485,367     1
17    Gen.Cargo           160      167      542,561    666,623                        542,561    666,623    w
18     Gen.Cargo         220       248      578,899    695,595                        578,899     695,595
19    Gen.Cargo           160      185      478,550    614,409               2,200    478,550     616,609
20     Gen.Cargo          117       140     534,240    605,917               1,0(0     534,240    606,917
21     Gen.Cargo          133       117     650,513    549,416    31,910      999      682,423    550,415
22     Liquid Bulk        176       177        596      6,321    431,116   404,398     431,712    410,719
23     Liquid Bulk        298      282       14,461              902,728  1,126,830    977,189   1,126,83()
24     Dry Bulk            83      100      036,850    698,387    12,890    11,800     649,740    710,187
25     Dry Bulk            62      119      430,902    650,480       335     4,000     431,237    654,480
Total              4,123     4,453  14,966,033  18,637,646  1,439,604  1,551,227  16,405,6371 20,188,873
Totals (exci KCI)       2,239     2.294   h 6,123,560   6,816,247  1,439,604  1,551,227   7,563,164 | 8,367,474



- 36 -
6.a Berth Occupancy for Each Berth - Port Kelang
From 1986-1991
Berth No.            1986      1987      19?Q      1989       1990      1991
South Port
I  Uquld Bulk            45         35        37        38        40        NA
2  Uquid Bulk             48        41        42        42        43        NA
3  Multipurpose           51        50        68        82        71        NA
4  General Cargo          61        56        67        71        67        NA
5  Genersl Cargo         41         37        39        32        50        NA
6  General Cargo          23                                                NA
7  General Cargo          52        50        48        53        30        NA
7a  General Cargo         52        54        61        65         77        NA
KC.T.
8  Container             39        41         51        61        64        NA
9  Container             46         48        51        61        64        NA
10  Container             39        44        51        61         64        NA
North Port
11  General Cargo         42        48        40        63         57        70
12  General Cargo/Dry Bu    64      63        70        71         72        81
13  General Cargo         7         20        57        66         69        73
14  General Cargo         6          9        48        52         51        70
15  General/Pass                                                   20        95
16  General Cargo         58        56        77        70         79        74
17  General Cargo         54        61        76        77         78        76
18  General Cargo         58        59        71        79         77        82
19  General Cargo         53        54        69        77         50        84
20  General Cargo         47        61        72         76        76        81
21  General Cargo         46        48        65         71        76        79
N.P. Bulk Berths
22  Uquid Bulk            19        21        20         46        45        32
23  Uquid Bulk            33        37        50         57        59        42
24  Dry Bulk              37        35        56         56        73        70
25  Dry Bulk               9        27        45         49        35        65
Notes
Berth 16 closed for repairs on April 86 onwards
Berth 7 closed the first quarter of 1990
Berth 15 closed to cargo vessels but occuppled by naval
and passenger vessels in 1986 and part of 1987
Berth 25 partially closed in 1986



- 37 -
6.b Berth Occupancy - North Port
1986 1    1987 1    1988 1    1989 1    1990 1    1991
Container              41%        44%        51%       61%        64%
General Cargo          44%        48%        64%       70%        69%        79%
Liquid Bulk            26%        29%        35%       35%        35%        37%
Dry Bulk               23%        31%       50%        52%        54%        67%



-38-
7. Turnaround and Waiting Times in Port Kelang
Average Vessel Turnround Time (hours)
1986        1987        1988        1989        1990        1991
Liquid Bulk               26.0         21.6        21.6        26.8        26.0       32.8
Dry Bulk                  79.0         67.4        79.9        80.3       93.7       130.5
General Cargo             29.9         29.8        36.7        44.3        45.4       55.3
a. Coastal               32.0          6.5       35.9        38.4        43.4        49.2
b. Foreign               285          30.9       380         47.2        46.0        57.8
Container                 11.7         11.3        11.3        11.3        11.7       13.3
a. Feeder                 9,4          9.4        9.5         10.2       10.5
b. Main Line             13.6         13.1        13.0        12.8       13.4 -
Average Waiting Time for Berth in Hours
1986        1987        1988        1989        1990       1991
Liquid Bulk                7.9          5.8         4.3         7.2         7.4        7.0
Dry Bulk                   0.2          0.0         0.0         9.3        13.5       37.5
General Cargo              1.3          0.1         0.0         5.3        2.6         6.8
a. Coastal                2.1          0.2        0.0         4.1         0.4         2.4
b. Foreign                0.7          0.0        0.1         6.6         3.6         9.2
Container                  0.4          0.4         0.5         0.5         1.1        2.6
a. Feeder                 0.4          0.4        0.5         0.41.1                  2.7
b. Main Line              0.4          0.4        0.5         0.6         1.2        2.6
Average Service timc in Hours (Includus Idle Time at Berth)
19(M6       1987        19 -8.8     1989       It99(       1491
Liquid Bulk               15.7         14.7        15.7        17.7        16.7       18.3
Drv Bulk                  76.2         66.2        77.5        69.6       80.8        91.2
General Cargo             26.3         29.0        35.4        37.3       39.7        47.1
a. Coastal               27.8         28.0       34.3        33.7        39.)        44.9
b. Foreign               25.3         29.6       36.8        39.2        40.0        48.2
Container                  9.3          8.9         9.3         9.3        10.0       10.3
a. Feeder                 7.0          7.0        7.7         8.2         9.0
b. Main Line             11.2         10.6        11.0        10.8       11.5
Average Effective (Net) Service Time in Hours
1986        1987        1988        1989        1990        1991
Liquid Bulk               12.2         11.1        12.4        14.2        13.4       14.7
Dry Bulk                  71.2         62.9        73.1        66.0       77.3        87.5
General Cargo             23.4         26.3        32.6        34.8        36.2       44.1
a. Coastal               24.8         25.0       30.0        30.6        34.7        41.6
b. Foreign               22.4         27.2       34.1        36.8        37.2        45.6
Container                  6.7          6.7         7.2         7.2         7.8
a. Feeder                 4.7          5.1        6.0         6.2         6.4
b. Main Line              8.4          8.1        8.6         8.6 7       9.2



8. Gang Productivity at Conventional Berths
(metric tons per gang hour)
Average Tonn   1986      1987       1988        1989 .     1900       1991
North Port
Gross           23.3        24.2       22.5        23.0       25.8      25.6
Net             28.4        28.5       26.7        27.5       29.9      30.0
South Port
Gross           12.6        14.2       14.7        i 5.5      14.7      16.2
Net              14.3       15.8       16.9        17.5       16.4      18.6
Overall
Gross           20.3        21.4       20.3        21.3       23.3      23.7
Net             24.1        24.7       24.2        24.9       26.8      27.4



- 40-
C. ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF PORT KELANG PROJECT
1. Port Traffic - Projected in SAR and Actual
Actual I Forecast Difference
Container Cargo
Rubber                       518      605       -14%
Chemicals                    394      545       -28%
Timber/Plywood (Exp)         516      414        25%
Latex in drum                 63       81       -22%
Machinery/Comp Parts         596    1.108       -46%
Paper & Newsprint            556      594        -6%
Others                     6,493    4,963        31%
Container Cargo            9.136    8.310        10%
(000's revenue tons)
Containers (TEU's)           497
Breakbulk Cargo
Rubber                        96       25       284%
Timber/Plywood               863       46      1776%
Iron & Steel               1,257    2.609       -52%
Machinerv/Comp. Parts        380      651       -42%
Paper & Newsprint             69       31       123%
Others                     2,50()    1,455       72%?
Total (000's revenue tons) |  5,165    4,817      7%
Containerization Rate      63.9%    63.3%



2. Berths, Berth OLcupancy, and (Cost of Delays wilh Vari(ous Invesiment Alternatives
Growth   Average Number of Prodwuai   Otcupancites C')    Tons per Vessl  I louts            Dclay Factors      Total Delays
Rate for     Dcep-Water         vity                           Vsscl   Calls    per
Conven-      Berths/Year       Gains             _             (7% per           Call
tional    Current    Split            Current Phase   Split   yar)                       Current      Split Current Phase 1+11  Spllit
Cargo   Phase 1+11   Phase                 1+11       Phase                             Phase 1+11   Phase      -              Phase
I&ll d1l                                               1&11                    l1l&l
with   w/o  W/o 15           wilh 15  witO  w/o 15                             with   w/O  w/o 15  with 15   wio 15  wlo 15
15    15                              15                                       15    15
1989   13.6%     10    10       10              68    (-       68    2,909   l,6)10    37.0
1990    8.9%/  10.5    10      -3               71    74       57    3,113   1,020    40.1  (LOS   0.06    0.01    3,29S    3.827   3162
1991   13.6%   10.5   9.5    12.5              8X    8')       67    3,382   1,616    45.6  0.15  0.28    0.02   10,759    20,7081 1,341    6
1992   10.5%     10     9       12        .     93    103      77    3,619   1,668    48.8  ).5   .l04    0.17   40,715   84,41.3  56/48 
1993    7.2%     10     9       12     20%      83    )2       693   3,872   1,671    43.5  t). 17   0.56    002   12,147   40,743  1.641 I
1994    4.9%   11.5  10.5      12       5%1f    72    79       69    4,143   1,638    44.4  0.04   0.09    0.02    2,875    6,258  I,6-(AO
1995    4.1 %    18    17       17      3%      47    49       49    4,433   1,594    46.1  OA.X)  0.00    0.00          0        1)     I
1996    1.4%    18    17        17      3%      46    49       49    4,743   1,510    47.9  0.(       . 0.00   o00       0        0 _ )
1997    0.7%     18    1 7      17      2%Ot    45    4;       48    5,075   1,421    50.3  .t1X)  O.0   0Q00            0        O      0
1998    1.2%    I1    17        17      2%      45    48       48    5,431   1,344    52.7  OAX)  0.00    0O0            0               0)
1999    1.6%           1 7      17      1%eW,    45    48      48    5,81 1   1,276    55.9  O.K)  0.00    0.00          0)              0
200    -0.5%    18      17      17     1 %N     45    47      47    6,218   1,186    59.2   0K)  0.00    0.00           0        l)    l)
Assume
- For the split option, Phase I would have started in 197 and been available in 1y91)
and Phase 11 would have been started in 1992 and bcen available in 1995
- Berth 11 converted to cointainer operations from mid 1991 to mid 1'92
- Berths 19-21 to be used for conventional cargo until 1'95i when tihey will bt- converied to containsef berths
- Phases I and 11 will add 8 conventional berths, ihree in mid 1994 and live in mid 1995
- Tw) additional berths will be convered to containers in 2(XX)



42 -
3. Comparison of Current Investment With and Without Berth 15
Berth 15    Savings for
Marginal     Reduced   Net Savings
Capital Cost    Delays
1986                               0.0
1987      3.7                      (3.7)
1988      13.9                    (13.9)
1989      9.7                      (9.7)
1990      3.3          0.3        (3.0)
1991                   6.2         6.2
1992                  27.3         27.3
1993                   17.9        17.9
1994                   2.1         2.1
1995                   0.0         0.0
1996                   0.0         0.0
1997 _.0  _                         .0
1998                   0.0         0.0
1999                   0.0         0.0
2000                   0.0         0.0
2001                   0.0         0.0
2002 _0.0                          0.0
2003                   0.          0.0
2(0)4                  (.(0   _     (
2005  ____________     0.0         0.0
2.0060.0                           0.0
Assumes no change in Operating Costs With Additional Berth
Intemal Rate of Return 15.5%
NPV at 10% 7.5 million



43 .
4. Comparison of Split Phases with Current Investment Schedule
Split Phases       Current Investment    Savings from
Capital   Additional   Capital    Additional      Reduced      Net Savings
Cost  Operating Cost    Cost   Operating Cost    Delays
1986  100.0                   3.7                                       96.3
1987  100.0                   13.9                                      86.1
1988  100.0                   19.7                                      80.3
1989              4.5         53.3                       (1.8)         (50.7)
1990              4.5         58.5    _                  (5.9)         (59.8)
1991  87.0        4.5        153.8                       (21.9)        (84.2)
1992  139.3       4.5        244.5                       (6.6)         (107.3)
1993  115.0       4.5        135.7         3.0           (0.8)         (19.9)
1994              7.5                      75            0.0            0.0
1995              7.5                      7.5           0.0            0.0
1996              7.5                      7.5           0.0            Q0_
1997              7.5                      7.5           0.0        -
1998              7.5                      75            0.0            (
1999              7.5      __ _            7.5           0.0            Q0_
2000              7.5                      75             0 0
2001              7.5     T                               o.o           o.o
2002              7.5                      75_0.(_                      0.0
2())3             7.5                      7.5
2004              7.5      v   -_  _j 7.5                0.() -         (l0    _
2005              7.5                      7.5            0.0           0.0
NeL Present Value 51.7 million in 1991



44- 
D. IMPACr OF PRIVAITZATION OF KCT
The introduction of the private sector on the port's container handling operations produced a
significant increase in productivity. Although KCT absorbed some of the LPK labor working at
Berths 8-10. it limited the amount of manpower absorbed to an efficient level and left LPK with the
excess staff' As a result of better use of labor, KCT was able to reduce the average berth time and
improve handling productivity by 25% during the first two years. However, it has failed to continue
improving productivity over the last two years. Its current annual throughput of 250 thousand TEU
per berth or 150 thousand TEU per gantry crane is expected to continue. This would imply that the
fourth berth at KCT (Berth 11) will provide sufficient capacity until West Port is open. Assuming
an increase in productivity with the added competition from the KPN, it is likely that only one
additional berth would be required up through 2000 according to the cargo forecast shown in Annex
B.
The financia: impacts of the privatization of KCT are relatively complex. The privatization reduced
LPKs revenues and expenditures. provided it with a rental fee. gave it an initial payment of M$56.8
million for 51% ownership of the terminal. and left LPK with a 49% share in the issued stock of
KCT. On the revenue side. the effects were a loss of the container handling revenues and part of
the cargo dues and storage revenues. There were partially compensated by the annual rental of
M$17 million (with a 10% escalation every 3 years) and a throughput charge for all boxes in excess
of 335 thousand TEIJ of M$150fIEU through 1994. On the expenditure side, KCT assumed
responsibility for the operation of the terminal and the maintenance of the equipment therebv
reducing LPK's expenditures for operations and maintenance. Since KCT was able to introduce an
increase in productivity in the initial years, the privatization also allowed the conversion of an
additional berth to container operations to be delayed by about one year.
In order to estimate the effects on LPK's cash flow, a number of assumptions had to he made as
follows:
First, the change in cash flow excludes both in depreciation and the initial pavment for the
equipment sold to KCT.
Second, LPK was profitable throughout the period being considered, and there would have
been additional taxes paid which would have reduced the cash flow to LPK A marginal tax
rate of 25% was assumed to take into account not only the tax rate but the reduction in
income from depreciation of the assets transferred to KCI.
Third, the estimates of the changes in the revenues and expenditures were made by
comparing the reported values in the tvo years prior to the privatization and in the three
years following the privatization.
'The excess labor problem appears to have been a result of over-staffing. At the time
of transition, the affected LPK labor was offered the choice to go with KCT with a five year
guaranteed job, remain with LPK or, if eligible, except early retirement. About 800 workers
chose to go with KCr out of a total LPK work force of some 7,000. This included most of
the container operations and maintenance division. howcver, it left a large amount of workers
formerly associated with the container operations in LPK without productive work.



* 45 -
Fourth, the revenue data was used to estimate the average unit revenue per TEU which was
lost as a result of the privatization. Since the tariff has not changed, these unit revenues were
used to extrapolate the revenue stream beyond 1991 using the current forecast of boxes to
be handled in the port.
Fifth, the operating and maintenance costs associated with the container terminal were
assumed to be unaffected by the volume of cargo but instead to increase at 2% per annum
in line with previous experience.
Sixth, the maxmum throughput of the three berths plus Berth 11, if left under the control
of LPK is estimated to be 800 thousand TEU. This number was used to limit LPK's
potential revenues.
Seventh, the introduction of a fourth berth was assumed to increase LPK's operating and
maintenance costs by 1/3 beginning in the year it was commissioned. Since the productivity
of LPK was lower than KCT, it was assumed that the berth would have had to have been
operational by the middle of 1991 rather than that middle of 1992 as required by KCT.
Eighth, the equipment purchased by KCT to equip the four berths included two Panamax
gantry cranes with supporting equipment costing about M$50 million. This cost would have
been incurred by LPK The same applies for equipment purchased earlier by KCT including
a gantry crane. 24 straddle carriers and 4 high loaders.
The resulting change in cash flow is shown in Table 2 below. This calculation excludes the effect of
an accelerated investment in the conversion of Berth 11.
The cost to LPK resulting from the privatization was computed as the Present Value of the cash flow
in 1986 terms using a discount rate of 10% in constant terms. The results indicate a loss to the LPK
of M$298 million. This calculation assumes that LPK sells part of its shares in KCT at the time the
shares are floated. It has been assumed that this will occur in 1996 and that the LPK would choose
to sell its shares so as to reduce its holding to the agreed limit of 20%. It has further been assumed
that the share price at the time of sale is M$5. This number is arbitrary, but even if it were doubled
and LPK were able to totally liquidate its position, the Present Value would only be reduced to a loss
of M$163 million.



1. KC'I- Prwductivity Improvements
1983    1984    1985     1 966    1987    1988 -   1989T     1990
Average Turnaround Time
All               13.7    15.6    13.4      11.7     11.3    11.3    11.3      11.7
Main Line          14.8    17.2    15.6    13.6      13.1    13.0 j  12.8 j    13.4
Feeders           10.5    11.5    10.2       9.4      9.4     9.5    10.2       10.5
Average 13erth Time
All               11.2    13.1     1 1.(0   9.3      8.9      9.3    9.3       10.0
Main Line          12.1    14.6     13.2    11.2     10.6    11.0    10.8       11.5
Feeders            8.6      9.3     7.7      7.0      7.0     7.7 1 8.2_    9.0
Average TEU's/Ship 
All              221.5   232.4   206.3    188.7    207.6    213       225       240
Main Line         239.1   255.8  254.4    231.1    246.2          1
Feeders          170.7   1733.4   133.8   137.9    168.7          1
Avcrage TEIJ (serth Hour
Overall           19.8    17.7    18.7      20.2    23.5 122.9    24.2         24.0
Main Line          19.8  117.5    19.2    20.6       23.21                  _
Feeders           19.8    18.7    17.4    19.6       24.0
Cranc lliatidling Rate
Main Line               _
Gross            19.2 [   17.8_   19.4 |l  24.2 ||  27.3 |   _
Net             25.0    22.2    23.4    25.7       27.9 |
Feeders
Gross            19.4    17.7 j  19.6 il  22.2     25.1         1
Net             25.9j   22.8 j  27.8    23.5      25.3



2. LPK's Incremental Cash Flow from Privatization of KCI (Million Ringgit)
Item               11986  11987 _  1988   1989  19M9    1991  1992   1993  1199     1995 | 1996
Container ForecasL
'000 RT             4,313   4,933   6,152   7,298   9,136  12,175  14,326  15,758  15,758  15,758  15,758
growth rate   3.5%   14.4%   24.7%   18.6%   25.2%   33.3%   17.7%   10.0%    Q0o.    0.0%   0.0%
TEUs                  242    276    .326    399    497    607    735    800    800    800    800
growth rate  -1.2%   14.0%   18.1%   22.3%   24.7%   22.1%   21.0%    8.9%    0.0%    0.0%o  0.0%
non-container       3,164   3,555   4,174   4,741   5,165   5,868   6,481   6,949   7,290   7,592  7,697
growth rate  -23.6%   124%   174%   13.6%    8.9%   13.6%   10.5%    7.2%    4.9%    4.1%   1.4%
Revenues Foregone
Dues and Storagc      16.6   19.0   23.2   27.8   34.7   44.9   53.3   58.5   58.5    58.5   58.5
Container Berth    163.0    71.9   84.9   103.8   129.5   158.0  191.3  208.3  2083   208.3  208.3
Revenues Rccived
Rent, Fixed          17.0   17.0   17.0   t8.7   18.7   18.7   20.6   20.6   20.6   22.6   22.6
Throughput                    0.0    0.()    9.6   24.3    40.8   60.0   69.8   69.8    14.9   14.9
Revenues Subtotal    62.6   73.8   91.0   103.3   121.2   143.4  164.1   176.4   176.4  229.2  229.2
Expenditures Foregone
Operations            9.2   13.5   i3.8   10.2    7.5    4.7   11.1    18.8   19.2   19.5   19.9
Maintenance           9.8   14.0    13.6   15.1    15.8    16.3   21.3    27.3   27.8   28.4   28.9
Capital               0.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   26.0    50.0    0.0    0.0    0.0           0.0    0.0
Taxes                10.9    11.6   15.9   19.5   24.5   30.6   32.9   32.6   32.4   45.3   45.1
Subtotal             29.9   51.1    55.3   56.8    73.7   101.7   65.3    78.6   79.3    93.2   94.1)
Extraord. Receipts   56.8                                                                          161.5
Net Cash Flow        24.1  (22.7)  (35.8)  (46.6)  (47.4)  (41.8)  (98.8)  (97.8)  (97.1) (136.0)   263
NPV- 10o            (289-2) in 1986         (512.3) in 1'02



48 -
notes:
1986 revenues estimated by assuming that revenues would be unchanged from 1985
Revenues beyond 1991 increases by rate of increase in traffic
Dues and Storage revenues from containers based on difference in revenues from
1985 to 1987 divided by the Tons and TEU of 1985. respectively
Container berth revenues based on average unit revenues for 1984 and 1985
Operating and maintenance costs assumed to be difference between average of 1984
and 1985 less the average of 1987 through 1989
Operating and maintenance costs assumed to increase by 2% per annum up to start
of 1991 when Berth 11 conversion required
From 1991, the operating and maintenance costs increase by 113 to account for Berth
11
Reduce shareholding to 20% in 1996 and sell other shares at $M5 per share
Equipment purchased bv KCr include 3 gantry cranes (about M$50 million). 33
straddle carriers (about M$33 million). 4 high stackers and to trailers and prime
movers.
KCT paid M$26 million for the conversion of Berth 11



49 -
E. KM STATISTICS
1. Container Movements to and From Port Kelang (TEU)
1989              1990          1991
Port Kelang To/From | TEU   % Totals   TEU% Totals         TEU% Totals
Kuala Lumpur
Loaded              1,878     4.1%     3,963     7.6%    4,270      8.2%
Empty                485      1.2%      780      1.9%       85      0.2%
Subtotal            2,363     2.7%     4,743     5.0%    4,355      4.1%
Sungai Way
Loaded              7.435    16.2%    8.320    15.9%     8.209    15.8%
Empty               2,515     6.1%     1,618     3.8%    1,065      2.0%
Subtotal            9,950    11.4%    9,938    10.5%     9.274      8.8%
Ipoh
Loaded               522      1.1%      651      1.2%      759      1.5%
Empty               i,799     4.3%     2.636     6.3%    4,170      7.8%
Subtotal            2.321     2.7%     3.287     3.5%    4.929      4.7%q
Prai
Loaded              6,289    13.7%    6,801    13.0%     5.527    10.6%
Empty               4,853    11.7%    4.517    10.7%     5.790    10.9%
Subtotal           11.142    12.8%    11,318    12.0%    11.317    10.7%e
Total toitrom Port Kelang
Loaded             16,760    3(6).5%    20.7?1  39.8%    19.744    37.9%
Empty              14,498    35.0%    14-366    34.1%    14.903    280%1o
Subtotal           31,258    35.8%    35.154    37.2%    34.647    32.9%
Total For System
Loaded             45,951            52275             52.120
Empty              41,432            42.128              53181
Sbtotal            87,383            94,403            105,301



-50-
2. Ipoh Container Yard Traffic Statistics
1989 I       1990         1991  1992(Jan-Apr)|
Loaded TEU's
Penang                   122         2,219        3,939           1,366
Kelang                   286         3,072        4,880           2.293
Pasir Gudang                          269           136
Singapore                              23             2
Padang Besar                            6            8               4
Subtotal                 408         5,589        8,965           3,663
Empty TEU's
Penang                   140         1,907        2,587           1.277
Kelang                   264         2,625        5,440           2,699
Pasir Gudang.                                                        6
Singapore
Padang Besar                            6             1
Subtotal                 404         4,538        8.028           3.982
Total TEU's
Penang                   262         4.126        6,526           2.643
Kelang                   550         5,697       10t320           4,992
Pasir Gudang                          269           136              6
Singapore                              23                            0
Padang Besar                           12            9               4
Subtotal                 812        10,127       16,993           7,645



-51 -
Figure 1
Growth in Container Movements
By Railroad in Malaysia
110,000                    .. 
100. 000 
90,000 .
a  80. 000                             ,
70.000 -
*r 60 000
'a , 000 oo-                                           .1
O SO000
D   0. 000 
~LL
30. 000
20,000
10, 000
1977    1979    1981    1983    1985        1987    1989      1991
1978    1980    1982    1984    1986    1988         1990
Year
Ftgure 2
Raiiroad Traf,.c in ,Malaysia
1977-199 1
4.20'                                                                 62.00
4.00              0\-                                                   0.0
3.80   /-58.00
3.00'                             <                                  -4856.00   2
2 3.60                                                                               c
o   3.40                                  -
52.00
.2   3.20'                                                                 -oo 
3.00"                                                                h 48.00    7
2.80 -.46.00
2.60'                                                                -4A.00
1977    1979    1981    1983    1985    1987    1989    1991
1978    1980    1982    1984    1986    1988    1990
Year
- Tonnage - Revernues



- 52 -
Figure 3
Comparison of All Traffic and Container
Movements on KTM,  1977-199 1
3.00 -/
O 2.50 -
112.00-                                  
zo O.'O
0.00
1976   '978   1980   1982   1954   1986   1988   i990
1977   1979   1981   1983   1985   1987   1989   1991
Year
- Al1 Traffic (tons) - Containers (TEU)
3. KTM Fleet lnventorv
Fixed Axke Wagons
Covered Wagons                   820         51%
Container Flats (20')            297         19%
Flat Low                          94          6%
Log Wagon                        123          8%
Tankers                           74          5%
Others                           190         12%
Subtotal                        1598
Bogied Wagons
Covered Wagons                   347         13%
Container Flats (40')            784         29%
Flat Low                         242          9%
Bulk Cement                      600         22%
Log Wagon                        112          4%
Tankers                          448         17%
Others                           146          5%
Subtotal                        2679



- 53 -
F. MIS SYSTEMS DEVELOPED SINCE 1986
System                                          Subsystem                              KPM   LPK
1   Conventional Cargo Manamement                       Dangerous Cargo                       x      x
import Manifest                       x
Berth Allocation                      x      x
Ship Tracking/Movement                x      x
Forklift System                       x
Marine System                                      Marine Services                        x
Traffic Conventional                               IEDlISD                                x
SWR                                   x
Claims                                x
16 Shed Pilot
' Import Shipside Proc.               x
' Expon Shipside Proc.                x
* Import Shed Proc.                   x
' Export Shed Proc.                   x
Stevedore                                          Labor Utilization                      x
Gang Productivity                     x
R&D                                                Ship Statstics                         x      x
(Statistics)                                       Container Statistics                   x      x
Impon/export Statb.                   x      x
2.  Commercial Information
Customer Information                                                                      x      x
Shippen Information                                                                       x      x
3. Personnel
Personnel Administration (Discipline/Medical Leave)                                       x      x
Personnel Services (Welfare, Loans. Funds)                                               x       x
Manpower Planning (Recruit/Training)                                                     x       x
PaymroU                                                                                   x      x
4.  Finance
Accounts Receivable                                                                       x      x
Acounts Payable                                                                           x      x
Budget Control                                                                            x      x
Monitor Financial Performance                                                            x       x
Purchasing                                                                               x       x
Monitor Purchases                                                                         x      x
Receive Goods                                                                             x      x
Issue Stock                                                                               x      x
Stock Control (including Fxed Assets)                                                     x      x
Tender Anaysi                                                                             x      x
Bank Reconcilintion                                                                       x      x
Loans                                                                                     x      x
Fixed Deposits                                                                            x      x
5.  Engineerine
Maintenance Management                                                                    x      x
Spare Parts Registtation/Control                                                          x      x
Job Costing                                                                               x      x
6.  Administration
Land Administration/Property Management                                                          x
Asses Accounting                                                                                 x
Liensing and Contracts                                                                           x



- 54 -
Parts of Original MIS Still to be Automated and Schedule for Completion
Conventional Cargo Management                      Schedule Completion
Marine Operation Staff                            January 1993
Marine Craft Information                           January 1993
Stevedore Absenteeism                             January 1993
Stevedore Bonus and Allowance                      January 1993
Stevedore Gang Booking                            January 1993
CCMS Implementation on All
Operation Points                                 January-March 1993
Integration with Billing anJ Statistics           January-March 1993



- 55 -
0. COURSES/SEMINAR/WORKSHOP CONDUCTED BY CROWN AGENTS AT MDU
Training Courses Implemented in 1990 and 1992
Courses                                             No. of Presentations
1990
Port Promotion and Marketing Workshop                         2
Motivation and Delegation                                     2
Team Building and Leadership                                  2
Problem Solving and Decision Making                            1
Developing Your Staff                                          1
Corporate Planning                                            2
International Trade Facilitation                              2
Maritime Crime Seminar                                         I
Privatization in the Port Sector Seminar                       I
1991
Corporate Planning                                            2
Strategic Planning                                            4
Port Promotion and Marketing Course                           6
Port Promotion and Markcting Seminar                           1
.Self-Development and Personal Effectivcness and
Time Managemcnt                                              4
Intemational Trade FacilitaLion Course                        2
International Trade Facilitation Seminar                       1
Organizational Development and Problem Solving                2



- 56 -
MALAYSIA
PORT KELANG PROjECT (LOANS 2686-MA 2687-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Prepared by the Executing Agencies)
Implementation of Bank Finance Civil Works
1. Introduction Following the World Bank's appraisal of the West Port plan in July 1985. it
was recommended that the implementation schedule of the West Port at Pulau Lumut be
deferred. A new Berth 15 would, however. be required to be built as an interim measure to
maintain the conventional cargo capacity when Berths 16-21 wcre converted for container
operations.
2. The present Berth 15 was occupied by the Marine Base. It was planned that a new Marine
Base, complete with a new marine office, be constructed to serve the needs of the marine
personnel. An existing floating pontoon for embarkation and disembarkation of staff was also
planned to be shifted to the new Marine Base once it was readv for use.
3. Marine Base The Marine Basc is comprised of a jetty measuring about 156 m x IO.() m wiLh
a single lane access bridge. The jetty and bridge were to be of slab and beam construction
supported by prestressed concrete piles. Dredging for the berthing basins were to be on both
sides of the jettv. Tenders were advertised in local newspaper in accordance with the
r.-quirement of the World Bank as well as Pusakabumi, a central body for the regisLration of
contractors in Malaysia. When tenders closed on January 15, 1986, a total of 18 firms
submitted their bids.
4. The initial plan for the Marine Base was to use the access road in KCIT (Jalan Tenggiri).
However, on award of the tender, KCT did not approve the use of the road and in view of
the objection by KCT, L.PK was forced to look for another accss road for the Marine Base.
With the acute shortage of available waterfront area in North Port, it was not possible to
relocate anywhere else except near the vicinity of the initially proposed jetty.
5. An area adjoining to KCI which was outside the customs fence was identified. This piece
of land, with an area of about 1.5 acres, belonged to Selangor State Development
Corporation. It was eventually purchased by LPK for the crcction of the marine office and
at the same time providing an access to the Marine Base.
6. Meanwhile a Siltation Study of Kelang Delta was carried out by foreign consultants and
indicated that the original position of thc Marine Base was not suitable in view of siltation



* 57 -
problems at the wharves. They recommended that the Marine Base should be in line with
the navigational channel and also to be brought as close to the channel as possible. A few
positions were tried out by them and eventually it was decided that the marine jetty cope line
be defined by a line set-back 15 m towards land and parallel to the line extending from Berth
8 cope to 170 m south of Berth 8 with bearing 120 eastward. The north end of marine jetty
was 200 m from Berth 8. Due to the realignment of the marine jetty, the access bridge was
required to be extended a further 60 m. Revised drawings were prepared and these were only
issued to the contractor on January 22, 1987.
7. While waiting for the solution to the problems of access and realignment, the contractor
was unable to set up his site office even though he had already partially mobilized his plants
and equipment, which were left in a temporary storage area outside the port area. Though
the contract asked for this work to commence on June 20, 1986. LPK was unable to hand
over the site until September 30, 1986.
8. Piling was one of the major works of this contract. In view of the initial delays caused to
this project. LPK had requested the approval from World Bank on the use of pile driving
analyzer (PDA) for testing of piles after the initial pile test was made using the conventional
method. The use of PDA would save about 3 weeks of project time and the method was
approved by the World Banl.
9. The various delays in the project had caused the project to overrun by about 92 days for
which an extension of time was granted to the contractor. The contractor was also
compensated for additional works to the contract as well as his claims for extra costs to
equipment and personnel as a result of the late handing over of site and the delay in the issue
of revised drawings.
10. The work was satisfactoriiv completed bv the contractor on December. 30. I1987 and
handed over to LPK for operations. The electrical installation to the Marine Base was carried
out under a separate contract by the Electrical Department.
11. Marine Office The marine oftice comprised of a three-story office with a five-story
observation tower at one end and a canteen. Other ancillary works, e.g., substations. Imhoff
tank, etc. were included in the contract. Because of the lack of land at the site. the buildings
were planned to be built over water with the deck to be supported by prestressed concrete
piles.
12 Based on a similar procedures as the tender for the Marine Base, tender notice was
advertised in the local papers in January 1986. When tenders closed on March 5, 1986, a
total of 31 firms had submitted their bids. The successful contractor was informed and
instructed to commence work as from October 30. 1986. The completion period for this
contract was 300 days.
13. For similar reasons, the buildings were not able to be built as proposed. An adjacent new
piece of land of about 1.5 acres was purchased form Selangor State Development Corporation
for the new site of the marine office. There were earlier difficulties with regards to the
boundaries and survey of this piece of land. The original measurement of 212 feet allocated
was found to be insufficient to locate the building facing the sea and aftcr an appeal, the



- 58 -
length was increased to 260 feet. The area given was low-lying and of substantial amount of
sand fill was used to bring up the level of the ground. In addition, the ground condition was
considered soft and settlement was expected.
14. The layout of the marine buildings was entirely changed in the new site. Many new works
such as an access road, fencing, car park, turfing, drainage, and landscaping were added.
Foundations for the buildings were also changed. While the prestressed concrete piled
foundations for the main office building were retained in this new layout, the foundations for
the other buildings, e.g. canteen, substations, etc. were changed to bakau piled foundations.
15. Due to the change in site and additional works involved, the contract completion date,
which was to be August 25. 1987 was extended by LPK for an additional 118 days. The
buildings were satisfactorily completed by the contractor on December 21. 1987. The
electrical and air-conditioning installations were undertaken as separate nominated
subcontracts by the Electrical and Mechanical Departments respectively.
16. Berth 15 For this project, a pre-qualification exercise was carried out. Notices were
advertized in the local newspapers in April 1986 and also sent to local representatives of the
World Bank members embassies. Out of a total of 129 firms which collected the Pre-
qualification questionnaires. a total of 60 applications were received by the closing date of
June 12 1986. Based on the evaluation which was reviewed by the World Bank
representatives. a total of 30 rirms were pre-qualified. A pre-bid meeting was held in June
12, 1987 during which a total of 71 representatives from 21 bidding firms attended. On the
bid closing date of August 12. 1987 in which a public bid opening was also conducted. a total
of 16 bids were received.
17. There was some initial deliberations on the front alignmcnt of Berth 15. After
consideration of the various options, the management decided to align Berth 15 on Lhc point-
to-point basis with Berths 16 and 14. The management had considered this to be the most
appropriate choice in view that the future expansion of container expansion would commence
from Berth 21 downwards to Berth 15. This being the case, Berth 15 would be the last berth
to be containerized and the need to move the crane from Berth 16 to Berth 15 might not
arise or would be very minimal. Also, if it was proved to be necessary, then a turntable would
be installed.
18. Initially, there was a delay of about a month in handing over the Berth 15 site to the
contractor as the marine crafts and personnel were still located there while waiting to be
shifted to the new Marine Base.
19. One of the main features of this project was that the contractor was asked to propose a
piling method whereby pile installations would be done using a non-percussion and non-
displacement method. The reason for proposing this method was that the accumulated
sediments of un-consolidated silty clays under the existing wharves were only marginally stable.
It was feared that any substantial applied forces might cause a collapsc of the unstable
sediment which might over-stress the existing piles.



- 59 -
20. The method used a vibro-hammer to bring the steel casing down to the required depth.
after which, the soil in the casing was removed. A prestressed concrete pile with a bigger
base and pre-welded to the required length was placed in the casing and sand were then used
to fill the space between the pile and the casing. After this the steel casing was removed.
Another problem of pile installation was that sometimes, old existing piles were left in the
ground and if they were at or near the positions of proposed new piles. the new pile would
have to be shifted in order to avoid the existing piles. Modification of the beams would then
be necessary and eventually extra cost to the project would be needed.
21. At times the founding level of the ground was not as good as expected from the results
of standard penetration tests performed for each pile position. One solution was to extend
the pile deeper into the ground while another method was to grout the base of the pile. The
cheaper approach of grouting the base of the pile was eventually adopted. Where steel
casings could not be driven as a result of obstructions nearby, a faster but more expensive
method was adopted where a steel pipe would be vibrated into the ground to replace the
prestressed concrete pile.
22 Problems arose when the casings met with some obstructions below sea-bed. The casings
would be damaged while being vibrated into the ground. In order to reduce or minimize the
damage to casings during pile installations, a probing device having thc same diameter as the
casing was used to probe the pile positions before the use of casings. This helped to reduce
damage to casings in the many areas, especially at the areas where the old dolphin berths
were located.
23. During the course of the works, the span of the crane beams was also changed from 50'
to 90' to cater for container cranes in the futurc. In vicw of this change. some of the pile
arrangements and beams were also changed.
24. The initial program of the contractor did not allow for works beyond late nights.
However, the method of piling was new to the contractor and the rate of the pile installations
was underestimated in his initial program. After reviewing the overall program. the contractor
realized the need to work 24 hours per day in order to complete the piling as scheduled.
25. At the initiation of the World Bank representative during one of the supervision mission.
tests were performed to determine the points of fixity of piles below sea-bed. Two tests were
carried out for steel piles.
26. One of the problems faced during the construction of the dolphin berths was that the
contractor had to cease all work whenever ships carrying dangerous cargo such as premium
motor spirit, regular motor spirit, A-1 jet fuel, etc. were berthed at either berths 22 or 23.
The frequency of stopping work was excessive and unforeseen and thus caused a substantial
delay to the construction of the dolphin berths. Consequently, extra costs were incurred due
to standby and idling time of the contractors plants and equipment. An extension of 46 days
was granted to the contractor for various rcasons, e.g. late handing over of site, delay due to
closure of dolphin wharf and obstructions during piling. The contractor was also compensated
for the above delays. The contractor, being experienced in marine works, completed the
project satisfactorily on March 7, 1990.



Acoomglishments of the Manpower Development Unit
27. The MDU was established in accordance with the recommendations of Phase I Report.
The first resident consultant to act as counterpart to the Head of MDU was replaced after
one year.
28 The training facilities were kept to basic requirements to conform with Phase I Report
recommendations against "a greatly enlarged training edifice". This, to some extent, affected
the image of developing a "Center of Excellence". The usefulness of MDU to LPK and other
ports was acknowledged by the client system but MDU has yet to upgrade its capability in
order to earn the desired credibility. MDU attempted to market itself through visits and
dissemination of course information but experienced problems.
The uncertainty of the privatization issue blurred MDU's vision to some extent and affected
the commitment to the project.
The rapport between MDU and heads of department on post-training follow-up was lacking.
The programs which were deemed to have been based on training surveys did not fullv meet
the training needs of departments. A proper system to evaluatc training programs was
introduced. However. follow-up on coursc evaluation was not effectively carried out.
The MDU failed to develop training packages due to the inability to master local institutional
support and the lack of proper guidance and material from the consultants/experts.
An activc involvement of MDU in LPK's manpower planning so as to identilv MDIU's tuture
training and devclopment objectives was not evident.
29. The component budget of M$t.531.056 was 81.11 percent expended leaving an unspent
balance of M$289.069. An addition LPK/MDU budget of M$360./)) was overspent bv
$76.818 (21.33 percent).
30. The total number of courses held was 44 including 24 repeats. This compares with the
33 types of courses that were originally planned for the two years.
31. The total number of persons trained was 755 (including 151 personnel from port-related
agencies).



- 61 -
avuWg cm per
day of training = M$9.703.02
aveme cot per
trainee = M$1.643.69
avmge tmnfig
durations = 3 days
maege trg
cost per trainee day = M$547.90
wvtage tper
course = M$28,227.00
32. The resource personnel supplied bv the consultants did not fully meet the expectations
of LPK The resident consultants were not 'training specialists" and could not therefore. give
professional guidance on training. They were mainly occupied with administration and
coordination of training programs. Out of the nine orginal specialists, ftve were replaced.
Three of them performed below expectations. Handouts and depth of material for some
courses were inadequate or unprofessionally prepared.
33. The plan to develop NIDUs own core of trainers was started but did not make much
progress. The assistance from other training institutions to help MDU develop local course
material has been minimal owing to the poor commitment and unavailability of local
consultants on terms offered by LPK.
34. In the absence of measurable targets and objectives, it was difficult to objectively measure
the shortfall except to draw inferences based on assumptions. interviews and survev responses.
T-hese indicate that the general objectives of MDC have been implemented and indicate a
50 percent to 60) percent range of achievement overall. Furthermore. the consultants
shortfall has to be considered in line with the saving clause in para. 1.2.8 of Phase I Final
Report which reads:
"To attempt to complete the Project more quickly would not allow sufficient time for learning
to be consolidated in training staff or fully proven systcms of control to be established before
handover."
ImDlementat_on of Railroad Pilot Prolect
35. The advent of the containerization posed a great challenge to the transport industuy
particulary in Malaysia. At the initial stage, the clearance of containers from the Port Kelang
to the Kelang Valley and vice versa was undertaken mainly by the road transport operatos
The Malayan Railway had a minimum market share for conveying these containes The
influx of thousands of containers froin Port Kelang and the expansion or the Kelang
Container Terminal present a good opportunity for the Malayan Railway to capture a bigger
share in the market. The KTM had to play a role along with its competitors by adopting
intermodalism and door-to-door services.



- 62
36. The KTM had its own right-of-way but this was not to the standard required to run trains
efficiently from Port Kelang to Kuala Lumpur. Furthermore, a terminal for stacking,
delivering and receiving the container was needed. The upgrading of the track and the
construction of the Inland container Depot (ICD), new station and other facilities called for
capital investment. The World Bank, after careful study agreed to finance this project. The
sum of M$10 million as then granted by the government to the KTM to carry out this project.
37. The funds were allocated for the following project components:
MA million
Construction of sidings at KCT! and Central             1.300
Yard and new station
Brickfields Yard-Phase I                                1.700
Brickfields Depot-Phase 11                              1.800
Upgrading of P. Kelang - KL branch                      1.500
Handling equipment                                      2.000
Training and Technical Asst.                            0.711
Signalling and Communications                           0.395
Electrical Installation                                 0.250
Contingencies                                           0.344
Total                                                  10.000
38. The project was executed as follows:
a. Phase I: the construction of the Brickfields Yards.
b. Phase 11: the construction of the depot (ICD).
c. Upgrading of Port Kelang: Kuala Lumpur Branch Line.
d. The construction of tracks within Kelang Container TerminaL
e. The construction of new station and vard at Port Kelang Central Yard.
f. Additional facilities for Port Kelang: North Port.
g. Upgrading the Public Level Crossing next to the Port Kelang Authority HQ.
h. The purchase of Handling equipment: Front Loaders and Prime Movers
39. The project was delayed due to various constraints namely the problem of the resolving
consultant tax liabilities with the Department of Inland Revenue and delays in funding on the
part of the Government of Malaysia.
40. The KTM has increased its market share tremendously as a result of efforts initiated as
part of this project.



Evaluation of Performance for Port Kelanz Proiect
41. Protect Evolution The World Bank's appraisal report was based on the findings of a Bank
Mission which visited Malaysia in July 1985. The appraisal report recommended. among other
things, that the investments in Pulau Lumut be deferred. The postponement of the West
Port project was due not only to the economic recession encountered then but also to the
overall improvement achieved in port productivity rates.
4. The appraisal report recommended, as an interim measure, that the civil works projects.
including the Marine Base, Marine Office. Berth 15 and Dolphin Wharf. be built to maintain
the conventional cargo capacity when Berths 16-21 were converted to container operations.
In order to strengthen the institutional framework of LPK and improve on its operational
efficiency, the project included a technical assistance component on management information
system (MIS), port training and port marketing. The original budget allocation for the Port
Kelang loan projects amounted to US$16.7 million.
43. The appraisal report and project conception was the outcome of preparatory discussions
held between the World Bank mission team and senior port management in 1985. The report
also recommended that a mid-term review be carried out in 1988 in order to reassess the
port's capacity requirements and the timing for commcncement of the West Port Project.
44. Good support was received from World Bank supervisory mission visits once or twice a
year in the implementation phases of the civil works and technical assistance components.
The purpose of the supervisory visits was to review progress and ascertain the latest project
status, identify outstanding problems and discuss actions to be taken with senior port
management and the implementing departments.
45. Owing to the time lapse between the project evolution and implementaLion. stalt transters.
imminent privatization, re-thinking of the project's scope of work and so on, there was a
change in focus which invariably affected some parts of the project implementation schedules
and activities.
46. Difficulties were encountered by the implementing departments in identitication and
selection of consultants for the technical assistance components as these activities were new
to LPK Tenders called were by way of invitation and in most instances the endorsement of
the World Bank was sought. Since this was the first time LPK was involved with the World
Bank, there was some difficulty initially in understanding the procedures and requirement of
the World Bank.
Performme of the Borrower
47. Impact of Port Privatization on Port Kelang Loan Projects The privatization of the
container terminal handling operations to Kelang Container Terminal (KCT) in March 1986
did not adversely afiect the implementation of the project as the identified activities excluded
the container department.



-64-
48. When privatization of the rest of the port services was announced in 1989, the
implementation of the outstanding technical assistance components, especially Phase 2 of the
training component, were affected.
49. After this announcement, it was still not clear how and who would manage the proposed
Management Development Unit (MDU) during the post-privatization era. This issue was
deliberated at length by management. Consent to proceed with Phase 2 was based on the
needs of Port Kelang to have a body of trained men to manage and operate the port services
.efficiently and professionally. However, the establishment of MDU, originally a three-vear
program. was shortened to two-year with little change to its terms of reference. The third
year training improvement efforts were to be carried out by the LPK staff with some support
from local/foreign training consultants.
50. Generally there was good support from senior port management for the projects
undertaken. Coordination of efforts between the departments was prevalent. This could be
seen in the drafting of the TOR's and scopes of work for the technical assistance components
to ensure the desired results were achieved during the project implementation stage. In-
house steering committees were established to coordinate and monitor the components
undertaken from the time of commencement until completion.
51. Local counterparts were drawn from the departments concerned to work closelv with the
project consultants on an attachment training basis in order to acquire the necessary cxposure
and experience and eventually to take over the leadership role from the consultants.
52 Senior port management and members of the Board were kept informed of the civil works
projects and the tcchnical assistance components from time to time through the submission
of progress reports and memorandum tor necessary feedbacks and endorsements of the
project undertaken.
Financial Performance
53. Audited Accounts for the year 1987 to 199.) were not furnished to the World Bank as
scheduled due to delays in the performance of the external auditors and the procedural
requirements of the government. Understandably, the deadline for submission of the audited
financial reports to World Bank is by September the following year.
54. The agreed operating ratio of 73 percent was not achieved for the years 1987 (89 percent)
and 1988 (78 percent) but in the subsequent years, the agreed operating ratio was achieved.
ie. 1989 (68 percent), 1990 (59 percent) and 1991 (65 percent). 1987 and 1988 were bad
years for LPK following the takeover of the lucrative container operations by KCr.
However, the operating ratio improved in 1989, 1990 and 1991 due to a dramatic increase in
port traffic and rise in supplementary base rental above the agreed threshold volume collected
from KCr. The excess labor issue, comprising mainly stevedores and clerical stafE is now
non-existent due to the increase in port trafTic handled and statf turnovers.
55. No major problem was encountered on loan disbursements. Periodical supervisory
missions proved helpful where problems relating to disbursements could be discussed or
brought back to the bank for further clarirications. Response time was satisfactory.



- 65 -
56. LPK is still in communication with World Bank over a disbursement equivalent to pound
sterling 54,065.03 in respect of Application No. 41 for the Phase 2 port training component.
Based on the January to April 1992 estimates, the Bank's outstanding disbursement to LPK
is approximately US$140.000.
Technical Assistance Compognents
57. Training Project implementation of the Phase 2 port training project was fraught with
difficulties from the onset. Imminent privatization resulted in a cut in the training budget in
view of uncertainty over the fate of MDU and whether it would remain with the Port
Authority or would operate as a department of the privatized company. In the light of the
proposed UNCTAD/Trainmar-sponsored courses in basic training, the Ministry of Transport
was committed to implement a basic training program for management development of the
port officers in group A and B.
58. Delay in the privatization exercise caused corresponding delays in procuring the necessary
training facilities such as training venue and equipment. The LPK officers appointed to
MDU did not receive training in their new field. The two resident consultants on training
were not seen to be management development specialists but rather project coordinators.
Good cooperation and coordination between departments were torthcoming despite the
limited resources except in the releasc of senior officers for training as trainers and local
resource specialists.
59. The MDU has medium term plans to develop the resource personnel course material and
training packages and to establish a training network with other training center. Its long-term
objective is to establish itself as the center of excellence in management development for all
ports in the country.
60. MIS The MIS consultancy study carried out in 1987 identified 60 subsystems to be
developed which were grouped into 7 major systems to achieve the MIS objectives of LPK
However. the consultant's recommendation on hardware procurement of five PC's and one
super-micro system was found to be inadequate to implement the MIS project proposals. In
the course of the MIS implementation. LPK appointed Price Waterhouse Associates in 1989
to review the MIS project. Among its major findings were that the proposed conventional
cargo management system (CCMS) was conceptually sound and the functional specifications
provided an adequate framework for the eventual development of the system
61. To date, LPK has acquired and installed one concurrent super-mini based at its
headquarters to manage the Financial Systems and port statistics and one Altos super-micro
stationed at the control shipping office to develop the CCMS. In addition, another 45 PC's
were acquired and installed at the various departments of LPK to meet local processing
needs. The MIS software development was done using LPKs internal resources.
62. Replacement of the old IBM 4331 computer system by a new Concurrcnt XF610 super-
mini computer system in 1988 was done through internal financing. The reasons why World
Bank funds were not used for the hardware procurement were as follows:



- 66 -
the urgency in replacing the old IBM 4331 with a new computer system in
view of the expiry of the IBM contract; and
the inability to obtain World Bank's endorsement on the tender specirications due
to the critical time constraints.
63. The implementation of the CCMS project as part of the original MIS is scheduled for
completion by March 1993. The major activities identified to be carried out include
implementation of the CCMS at all operational working points and systems integration with
the port billing and statistics system.
64. Marketing Attachment of local marketing officers to the port marketing consultants during
the project proved beneficial and provided valuable feedback to the officers. However.
exposure to international marketing is still somewhat lacking. Management's commitment to
marketing and its desire to create the right business environment have resulted in serious
discussions on implementing a number of load-centering strategies. The strategies to be
developed are:
Free Commercial Zone
Inland Ports
Distribution Parks and cargo consolidation center.
Port Development Plans
Port Promotion Programs
Electronic Data Interchange
Port Privatization Plans.
65. Continuing efforts are being made to develop a strong database to mect the corporate
marketing needs of Port Kelang. Mark-et research and port promotion activities so tar
undertaken include customer research, shipping information and disbursement, port
intelligence, comparative cargo throughput costs analysis. bottleneck studv. etc. On the other
hand, direct marketing functions are gradually being reduced in tandem with privatization of
the port services. The technical assistance on marketing was successfully carried out. It
achieved its objective in creating a market-driven culture among the officers and an awareness
on the importance marketing in the port and shipping industry.
66. Civil Works All civil and engineering works included in the Port Kelang Loan Projects
have bene satisfactoriy completed. These indude the construction of Marine Base, Marine
Office, Berth 15 and the terminal breasting dolphins. Project tender notices were advertised
in the local newspaper in accordance with the requirements of the World Bank as well as
Pusakabumi, a central body for the registration of contractors in Malaysia.
67. Owing to unforeseen problems, the completion schedule of some of the projects were
affected. Due to the change in site and additional works involved. the contract completion
date of the Marine Office was extended by LPK for an additional 118 days and the Marine
Base Project for 92 days. An extension of 46 days was also granted to the contractor for
Berth 15 due to late handing over of site, delay due to closure of dolphin wharf and
obstructions during piling. The contractors were compensated for the above delays.



- 67 -
68. Berth 15 which was designed for container handling operations was affected by the port
rationalization plan as management decided to develop the second Container Terminal
commencing from Berth 21 downwards to Berth 16. Berth 15 will be equipped with conveyor
handling systems and back-up storage facilities to handle palm kernel expellers and part of
the cereal traffic in North Port. Despite the change in status, this multi-user berth also
provides the additional berth capacity for conventional break bulk ships as the conversion of
other conventional berths to container operations is implemented on planned schedule.
69. Relationship  teen the Bank and the Borrower There was close interaction and
coordination between the Bank and the Borrower in respect of identification of consultants.
tendering processes and technical evaluation exercises. The frequency and usefulness of the
supervisory missions was acceptable to the LPK as well as the implementing departments
especially where problems related to rinance, civil works and technical assistance projects were
discussed or brought back to the Bank for further classifications.
70. As part of the project loan arrangements, LPK as the Borrower has been sending its
progress reports to the World Bank on a quarterly basis from the time of project
implementation until completion. Problems encountered in the implementation exercise and
the progress achieved to date were highlighted in these reports tor the necessarv attention
and action of the Bank. With the exception of the usual acknowledgement letters. there were
hardly any written comments on the quarterly reports from the World Bank.
71. Following the signing of the loan agreement in 1985, LPK has periodically reviewed the
status of the projects. especially the tinancial aspects. and these reviews resulted in
adjustments to be made in the loan agreement. The cancellation of the surplus loan funds
from the Bank arose as LPK decided to drop projects. such as the container stacking yard.
and in view of the latest development and changes that took placc in the port. Managemcnt
was also concerned about Lhe size of the commitmcnt charges and procecded to finance some
of the projects with LPK's own funds so as to reduce the loan repayment requirements. The
overall costs of ongoing civil engineering projects were also less than what was originally
estimated.
72. The Bank and Borrower understood the reasons and implications for the cancellation of
the surplus loan. Requests for loan cancellation amounting to US$9.2 million and US$2.0
million were made by LPK in 1988 and 1991, respectively.
Evaluation of Performance for the Railrad Pilot lProect
73. World Bank's Perfornance In the course of the implementation of the project. the KTM
had support from the Bank staft The World Bank helped the KTM in obtaining all the
information required.
74. Mec*i gs with the Department of Treasury were conducted on number of occasions to
discuss the implementation on the project.
75. The Borrowers Performance The project was delayed due to the Malaysian Government
policy during the recession. The budget was withheld by the government and the clearance



-68 -
of certain aspects of the Inland Revenue Department's regulations. The consultant had to
clarify with this department on the subject of taxes.
76. The KTM overlooked the Bank's procurement procedures.
77. The KTM played a role in constructing of the Ipoh Cargo Terminal (a diy port),
Brickfields Container Depot and Padang Besar Container Depot. The outcome and the
knowledge gained during the training session, enabled the KTM to construct the three depots
mentioned.
78. The level of interaction/cooperation given by the consultants was beyond expectation.
79. No delay occurred once the implementation of the project began.



.69-
OR KELANG PRE&Qn  (LOANS 26f&MA. 2687-MA)
PROJC COMEWON EORT
PART m . STATISTICAL INFORMATION



1. Related Bank L,oans and/or Credits
Loan Tttle                             Purpose                      Fiscal Year           Status
Approved
Sabah Port           To improve the facilities to scrve the expanding  1971     Completed  PPAR No. 1244,
LN 774-MA                    economy ol tuc State of Sabah                                 776 has been
issued
Second Sabah Port  To rehabilitate and expand(l tihe port facilities at Tawau  1978  Completed  PCR No. 6110,
LN 1580-MA        by repairing the existing qlutay and providing new berths                3/86 has been
and backup facilities to increase port capacity. This                  issucd
project also aimed at developing the institutional
strength of the Sabah 1'orts Authority by ticusing on
operations and training
0



.71.
2. Project Timetable
Date Actual         Date Actual
Item                                 Loan 2686 MA            Loan 2687 MA
Inidal Project Brief                  March 1985           March 1985
Preparation Mission                    May 1985             May 1985
Appraisal Mission                      July 1985            July 1985
Loan/Credit Negotation                March 1986           March 1986
Board Approval                        April 1986           April 1986
Loan Signature                         June 1986           June 1986
Loan Effectiveness                    August 1986         August 1986
Loan Closing                        December 1989        December 1991
Loan Completion                     December 1989          June 1992
Loan Account Closed                   April 1990            May 1992



-72-
3. Project Implementation
Implementation Schedule
Planned                   Actual
Activity           Start       Finish        Start        Finish
Port Project
Construction
Marine Base             June 86      June 87      Sept 86       Dec 87
Berth 1S                 Jan 87      Dec 88        Jan 88       Mar 90
Dolphins                 Jan 87     _a._ 88        Feb 88       Feb 89
Technical Assistance
Marketing                                          Jan 87      April 88
Training, M.D.U.        J            May89        June 88       Dec 91
MIS (Phase I)         _                            Dec 86       Jan 89
Railway Project
Technical Assistance                               Jan 88      June 89
Trackwork                                          Oct 88       Feb 89
Brickfields Depot      March 87      Sept 87      Sept 88      April 89
Equipment               April 87     Sept 87       Oct 88i     March 8)



.73.
4. Loan Disbursements
Fiscal    Loan/Credit     Estimated    Actual    Actual % of   Actual % of
Year    Disbursements   Cumulative  Cumulative   Estimated        Revised
Quarter.Year
1987        3.86                150                      0%
4.86               300                      0%
1.87             1,300        150          12%            2%
287              3,300        340          10%             4%
1988        3.87              5,300        590          11%            8%
4.87             8.300        870          10%            11%
1.88            11,300       1,140         10%           15%
2.88            13,330       2,230         17%            29%
1989        3.88             14.800       2.450         17%           32%
4.88             16.300      2.800         17%            37%
1.89            17,300      '3,720         22%           49%
2.89             18.300      4.420         24%           58c%
1990        3.89             18,550      5,230          28%           69%
4.89             18,800      6,260         33%           82%
1.90            18.800       6,790         36%           89%
2.90             18.800      7,000         37%           92%
1991        3.90             18.8(0      7,040          37%          .93C@%
4.90             18.8a0/ 7.070             38%           93%
1.91            18,800       7,350         39%           97%
2.91             18.800      7.350         39%           97%
1991        3.91             18,800      7.440          40%           970%c
4.91             18,800      7,430         40%           100%
1.92            18,800       7,430         40%          100%



-74-
Figure l.a
Disbursements - 2686-MA and 2687-MA
Disbursement Profile
Loans 2686-MA and 2687-MA
.20
$16                            ;,
$141                      /
X $12
$6-                                       ,..l
So                                       -
3.86  1.87  3.87  1.8S  3.88  1 89  3.89  1.90  3.90  1.91  3.91  '.92
4.86  2.87  4.87  2.88  4.88  2.89  4.89  2.90  4.90  2.91  A 91
Oucrter.Year
Figure l.b
Disbursement Protile Port Kelang and Malavsian Railwavs
DEsburserment Pro-ile
Port Kelang and Malaysian Railways
$6.0
$5.0i 
~.$4.0     - _ _ _ _ _  _   _   _   _  _  _
$23.0-
1.87  3.87  1.88  3.88  1.89  3.89  1.90  3.90  1.91  3.91  1.92
2.57  4.87  2.88  4.88  2.89  4.89  2.90  4,90  2.91  4.91
Quorter.Year
Port Kelang               Malaysian Railways



-75.
5.A Project Costs (Mil}ions Ringgit)
Appraisal Estimate              Actual
Item                   Foreign                      Foreg
Local  Exchange   Total    Local  Exchange Total
.   Costs    Costs          Costs     Costs
Loan Account 2687 MA Port Kelang
Civil works
Marine Base               3.8        3.9      7.7      4.5             4.5
Marine Office                                 0.0      2.3             2.3
Berth 15 &               19.9       20.7     40.6     20.9            20.9
Oil Berth Dolphins        0.7        0.8      1.5
Backup Area               3.4       3.6       7.0
Engineering Surveys        0.7        0.5      1.1
Subtotal   28.5      29.4     57.9     27.8        0.0  227.8
Training and Technical Assistance
Consultant Services
MIS                       0.1       0.1       0.2      0.2             0.2
Marketing                 0.1       0.2       0.2      0.2       0.6  ().8
Training                  0.5        1.0      1.5      1.2       0.3   1.5
Equipment                  0.8        0.6      1.4      0.4        1.5   1.9
Subtotal    1.5       1.9      3.3      I.(        2.4I  4.4
_ _  _  _   _  _   _    J  _ _ _ _ _  _   _   _  _ _  _   _   _  _   _  _
Loan Total                 30.0      31.3     61.2      29.8       2.4  32.2
Loan Account 2686 MA Kerctapi Tanah Melayu
Equipmcnt and Material                                 1.2       1.6  2.9
Civil Works                                            3.3       3.5   6.8
Consultancy Services,                                            0.5   0.5
Trahiing
Subtotal    1.9       4.3      6.3      4.5        5.7  10.2
Contingencies
Physical                  3.2        3.6      6.8                0.6   0.6
Price                     4.4       6.9      11.3                0.3   0.3
Subtotal    7.6      10.5     1&1       0.0        0.9   0.9
Loan Total                 95        14.8     24.3      4.5        6.5  11.0
Combined Loan Total        39.5      46.1     85.5     34.3        8.9  43.2
Comments: The Difference between estimates and actuals for the port project was a
result of low bids and subsequent loan cancellations, Totals may not agree due
to rounding



-76-
5.B Project Costs (Millions US$)
Item              Appraisal Estimate             Actual
Foreign                     Foreign
Local Exchange   Total    Local  Exchange  Total
Costs   Costs              Costs    Costs
Loan Account 2687 MA Port Kelang
Civil works
Marine Base             1.55      1.60     3.15     1.72             1.72
Marine Office                             0.00      0.88             0.88
Berth 15 &             8.12      8.45    16.57      7.89             7.89
Oil Berth Dolphins      0.30      0.31     0.61                      0.00
Backup Area             1.40      1.46    2.86      0.00             0.00
Engineering Survevs      0.27      0.18     0.45                      0.00
Subtotal 11.64    12.00    23.64    10.49      0.00  10.49
Training and Technical Assistance
Consultant Services      0.26      0.50     0.76
MIS                                       0.00      0.09             0.09
Marketing                                 0.00      0.07      0.22   0.29
Training                                   0.00     0.45      0.11   0.56
Equipment                                   0.0(     0.15      0.56   0.71
Subtotal  0.26     0.51)    0.76     0.76      0.90   1.65
Loan Total              11.90     12.50    24.40    11.12      0.90  12.U2
Loan Account 2686 MA Keretapi Tanah Mclavu
Equipment and Material   0.34    0.25      0.59     0.46      0.60   1.06
Civil Works            0.78       1.77     2.55     1.22      1.31   2.52
Consultancy Services,                                         0.20   0.20
Training
Subtotal  1.12     2.02     3.14     1.68      2.11   3.78
Contingencies
Physical                130       1.45     2.75               0.22   0.22
Price                   1.79      2.83     4.62               0.10   0.10
Subtotal  3.09     4.28     7.37     0.00      0.32   0.32
Loan Total            J 4.21       6.30    10.51     1.68      2.43   4.10
Combined Loan Total     16.11     18.80    34.91    12.76      3.32  16.13



.77.
S.C Project Financing (million USS)
Planned
IBRD/IDA Expenditure       (Loan/Credit)     Final
Categories            Agreement
Loan 2687-MA                       16.7           5.5
Part A                                 12.0
Part B                                  0.6
Part C                                  0.7
Unallocated                             3.4
Loan 2686-MA                       2.1            2.1
Civil Works                            0.76
Equipment, Materials                   0.74
Consultant Services                    0.37
Unallocated                            0.24
Government funds                   16.1           8.5
Total                              34.9           16.1



-78-
6. Economic Impact - Summary
Appraisal        Actual at Final
Development
Economic Rate of Return                 30.5%            18%
Underlying Assumptions Based on Scenario:
Comparison with no investment in facilities
Conversion of Berths 8410 to container berths in 1986
Conversion of Berth 11 to container berth in 1992
Conversion of Berth 19-21 to mixed container/conventional 1993
Comments
1. Comparison with accelerated development of West Port produced
positive NPV
2. Costs for new Marine Base included as part of cost of development
of Berth 15. no direct benefits from this structure



7.a Financial Performance Indicators. LPK
Performance Indicators      1984  1985   1986  1987  1988 1989  1990  1991
Current Ratio               3.53   3.89    6.85  6.89   5.08   4.62   3.47   2.32
_____  .__________ ____ ___1.2z.    09    089l-         078 
Operating Ratio             0.66   0.74    .90    89    0.78   0.68   0.59   0.65
Working Ratio               0.51   0.59    0.72  0.70   0.63   0.54   0.49   0.57
Net Income/OperatRevenue    0.14   Q1O1    0.05  0.09   0.15   0.23  0Q29   0.27
Return on Assets           12.5%  11.5%    8.9%  9.2%  11.0%  14.6%  19.1%  19.1%
Return on Equity           10.3%c  7.4%    1.7%  2.7%   5.3%   8.2%  10.8%  10.4%,
Return on Capital Employed    8.5%   7.6%    4.9%1 5.2%   6.3")%   8.;M%  1 0. 1%  10.0%
Debt Seice Coverage         2.35   2.05    0.84  1.04   1.56   2.48   1.98   5.19
Long Term Debt/Total Equity  1.40   126    0.83  0.76   0.63   0.52   0.38   0.26
Acid Test Ratio             3.45   3.80    6.80  6.85   5.05   4.59   3.45   2.31
7.b Financial Performance Indicators, KTM
Performance Indicators                 1989         1990)         1991
Long Term Debt/Total Equity            -3.11       -2.68          -2.58
Operating Ratio                         1.26        1.17           1.21
Working Ratio                           0.98        o.93          0.97
Operating Surplus/Operating Revenuc    -0.26       -0.17         -0.21
Current RaiLio                         (.54        (o.34          11.22
Acid Test Ratio                         0.30        0.19           0.10
8. Studies
Studies      Purpose as Defined at Appraisal  Status     Impact of Study
Bottleneck  to identify and documaent the   Completed  Continuing dialogue
Study      bottlenecks which impede the smooth         on need to deregulate
flow of goods into and out of the port     haulage of containers
and to prepare an action plan
West Port  added later with intent to update the  Completed  Construction now
evaluation of the requirement and           underway in accord-
timing for new facilties on Pulau          ance with the study's
Lumut                                      schedule
comments:  Bottleneck study conducted as part of marketing study,
West Port Study conducted at request of LPK and funded directly by Bank



9). Status of Covenants
Section    Deadline
Covenants (Brief Description)               Applicabhe     for            Status
Compliance
Loan 2686-MA
KTM shall submit audited financial statments, audit report and a  4.01           Complied with following
separate report on SOE's by 9/3(0 of each year                              delays in submittal
Prior to compeltion of the National Ports Study, the GOM shall only  5.02              Complied with
allow investmenis in new port development estimated to cost more than
M$10 million after consultation with the Bank
Borrwer shall implement an action plan agreed to by the Bank to  5.03   6/30/87       Complied with
eliminate the impediments to the glow of goods to and from Port Kelang
Loan 2687-MA
LPK shall furnish the results of a study on the elimination of  3.03  12131/86     Complied with
impediments to the flow of goods to and Irom Port Kclang
LPK shall cany out an agreed upon training program      3.04     _       _      Complied with
LPK sball submit audited financial statments, audit report and a separate   4.01    Complied with following
report on SOE's by 9/30 of each year                                    delays in submittal
LPK shba operate under competent management, maintain its faciltiies    5.01        Complied with subject
and its rights and power.                                         to changes brought
about by privatization
LPK shall complete the revaluation of its fixed assets  5.02      12/31/87      Complied with
LPK shall fumish the Bank with a plan to revise its tariff structure  5.03  12/31/87  Complied with
reflecting the actual cost to provide the port services.
LPK shall maintain for each year after its fiscal Year ended on 12/31/87    5.04     Complied with for all
an operating ratio not higher th.in 73%                                  years except 1988



10. Bank Missioms
Ste of prec Cyce               MOab         Numnber o     I)0av in     Specialization     Ipzfora         lps of                   Ctnucet5
Year         Petuons      HIAlM         Reptesented      Rating Status    Problems
ib gh Appri_                                 _   _
Prpwatio (with ADB)                  may 1985          3           1 2     Transport Fontimast        I
Yngineer
FinandalC  AnalySt
Appbas                               July 198S         3           19     'rransport Economist        I
EIngineter
Intancial Analyst
Apprais  through Board Approal
Board Appra througt Effectiveness
Supervision                        Febnuty 1987        3           n        ransport Economist
Engineer
F-inancial Analyst
Superviion                           November         31           t       Transpon licotirmiss       2          Technical         Delays in Ralw  project.
1987                                    Fingineer                                          Pon civil works and tining
Financial Analyst                                    projct; probklms with KThM
understanding procuremet procedure'
Supervision                          June 1988         I            2      Transport Economist        2          lechnical           Delay in Marine Base              O
Supevision                         October 1988        2                   Transport Fxonomist                                    reduction in amount of toan
Engineer
Supervion                           January 1989       3            3      Transport EcCnomisi        2          Technical           Delays in Civil Works,
Fnginr-er                                        submission of audit reports
Fincial Analyst                                          and tariff revision
Supervision                          May 1989          I           4            Engineer              I
Supervision                        October 1989        3           14      Trmnsport Economist
Engineer
Financial Analyst
Supervision                        Febmraty 1990                              nrasx)n port on onmu    2          Technical        Delays in training component
E:ngineer                                   and lack of commitment by manage.men
Supervision                        October 1991        1            s           Engineer              2          Technical   Problems between consultants and I Ilk1
with regards to training program
Total Missions                              I I         n2           )ays in Field
y-ftatus Column: I -prolkm Iree or minor probkms; =um crate pROTbIms: 3= mar"jor prolerms



