                Document of
              The World Bank




                                               Report No: 30464-YF

  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-50017 TF-50256 TF-50295 TF-50567 TF-50977)

                    ON A

                   GRANT

    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 10 MILLION

                     TO

        SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO

                   FOR A

  SOCIAL ASSISTANCE SPECIAL FINANCING




               November 5, 2004

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective as of August 13, 2004)

                                   Currency Unit = Dinar
                                           US$ 1 = 61.2338 YUD

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                    1 January    31 December

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
ECA          Eastern Europe and Central Asia
EU           European Union
FRY          Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
HD           Human Development
HP           Health Project
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
LSMS         Living Standards Measurement Survey
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MOH          Ministry of Health
MOLE         Ministry of Labor and Employment
MOSA         Ministry of Social Affairs
OOF          One-Off-Fund
PA           Privatization Agency
PAYGO        Pay-As-You-Go
PHRD         Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PMU          Project Management Unit
PSD          Private Sector Development
SAC          Structural Adjustment Credit
SIF          Social Innovation Fund
SFRY         Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SOSACSocial Sector Adjustment Credit
SPEAG        Social Protection Economic Assistance Grant
TA           Technical Assistance
TOR          Terms of Reference
TSS          Transitional Support Strategy
TTL          Task Team Leader




                                  Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                                Country Director     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                                 Sector Manager      Hermann von Gersdorff
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Inguna Dobraja

                               SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO
                              Social Assistance Special Financing


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26

Project ID: P074124                                                  Project Name: Social Assistance Special Financing
Team Leader: Inguna Dobraja                                          TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: November 16, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Social Assistance Special Financing                      L/C/TF Number: TF-50017; TF-50256;
                                                                                                     TF-50295; TF-50567;
                                                                                                     TF-50977
   Country/Department: SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO                                              Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (40%); Compulsory pension and unemployment
                            insurance (20%); General public administration sector (20%);
                            General industry and trade sector (20%)
                  Theme: Social risk mitigation (P); Social safety nets (P); Improving labor
                            markets (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/20/2001                                     Effective: 11/30/2001
     Appraisal: 05/14/2001                                         MTR:
      Approval: 08/29/2001                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 04/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF YUGOSLAVIA/GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF
                                           SERBIA: MINISTRY OF SOCIAL AFFAIRS; GOVERNMENT OF
                                           YUGOSLAVIA/MINISTRY OF LABOR AND EMPLOYMENT ;
                                           GOVERNMENT OF YUGOSLAVIA/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Christiaan Poortman
Sector Manager:                 Hermann von Gersdorff                          Michal Rutkowski
Team Leader at ICR:             Inguna Dobraja                                 Philip O'Keefe
ICR Primary Author:             Christian Bodewig


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The original objectives of the Grant were to (i) promote a more market-oriented labor relations framework
to facilitate initial restructuring and eventual job growth; (ii) support interim steps to improve the
effectiveness of the social safety net, and help develop the policy framework for a more coherent safety net
in the following years; and (iii) support policy development to lay the ground for more comprehensive
reforms of the social insurance system. The SPEAG was intended to support the then newly elected,
democratic Serbian Government's agenda of (i) reforming the Labor Law; (ii) adjusting the tax base for
social insurance contributions; (iii) undertaking interim adjustments of the social welfare system; (iv)
supporting initial steps to improve the policy framework for the system of transfers and services to the
poorest; and (v) initiating policy development towards a more comprehensive overhaul of the pension and
health systems. SPEAG was a hybrid operation combining a policy development and budget support
component with a technical assistance component. Providing adjustment support for some initial policy
reforms was aimed at helping the process off its feet, while the technical assistance component was
intended to underpin the more fundamental and long term follow-on reforms. The operation triggered a
number of bilateral co-financing grants from the Canadian, the Dutch and the Swedish Governments. All
policy conditionality supported by the operation were met before the disbursement of the adjustment
component.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had three components, (i) Budgetary support/adjustment financing of US$ 9.2m; (ii) Social
Policy, supporting policy development and training for pensions, social welfare, labor, health, and social
statistics, at US$ 0.78m; and (iii) Project implementation, supporting project management, and contracting
out project management/procurement and FM functions to an existing Project Management Unit (PMU) in
the Privatization Agency, at US$ 0.02.

The SPEAG was accompanied by a number of bilateral co-financing grants. The Canadian Government
approved two grants worth each US$ 400,000. The Dutch Government provided both budget support for
the Serbian Government's One-Off-Fund (OOF) for the clearance of child allowance arrears (US$ 1.76m)
as well as technical assistance (US$ 240,000), while the Swedish Government provided US$ 1.59m, all for
the OOF to clear child allowance arrears.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
Project quality at entry is rated satisfactory. SPEAG was highly relevant to Serbia's development needs as
it emerged from a decade of sanctions, conflict and non-reform. In effect, Serbia started the post-socialist
transition process about ten years later than its Central European neighbors. In the context of its high
unemployment and poverty, reforms of the labor relations framework and labor legislation was a necessary
and critical precondition to stimulate employment growth and, ultimately, to achieve higher living
standards. Moreover, the social safety net inherited from socialist times had large holes whose fixing
required both short-term financing to provide immediate coverage for the most vulnerable as well as
promote substantial and systemic reforms of the social welfare and services framework. Lastly, technical



                                                       - 2 -

assistance in health laid the ground for following health reforms supported under the SAC and the Health
Project. The Bank flexibly responded to client needs both with the budget support and policy reform
component and, over the lifetime of the project, with the technical assistance component.

While intended to avoid complex procurement methods and to ensure a quick disbursement, the
implementation arrangements with three line Ministries and a separate project management unit (PMU) ­
based in the privatization agency and also implementing a private sector development project ­ as well as
the adding-on of co-financing grants for TA in particular were, with hindsight, ill-suited to guarantee a
quick implementation (see below). However, this could have been mitigated during the implementation
process by improved communication channels as well as clear and agreed service standards for the PMU.
Moreover, the project's implementation effectiveness in the latter phase, may have benefited from awarding
the task team leadership to a staff based in the Serbia and Montenegro Country Office to be able to respond
in real-time and trouble-shoot quickly.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The SPEAG fulfilled its objectives, and the overall outcome of the project is rated satisfactory. As
intended, SPEAG was a foundation operation for subsequent reforms in many respects. It supported initial
policy reforms, provided financial support into a One-Off Fund (OOF) established by the Ministry of
Social Affairs to address inequities in the inherited targeting of social assistance on an interim basis and to
show visible signs of improvement in the social protection system to the population by covering benefit
arrears and providing funding for social assistance payments and laid the ground for subsequent reforms
through technical assistance. The reform process in Serbia under the first democratic Government was
impressive and marked a period of "extra-ordinary politics" with the Government having a strong mandate
for reform and being intent on using it. In the social sector, subsequent reforms squarely built on SPEAG
technical assistance and were supported by follow-on Bank adjustment and technical assistance operations.

Labor and employment: The outcome of the project in the area of Labor is rated satisfactory. SPEAG
successfully laid the ground for Serbia's new labor relations framework manifest in a new labor law
adopted in 2001. As an initial reform step, SPEAG supported amendments to the previous (non
market-oriented) Labor Law as well as social insurance contributions and benefits legislation to extend the
taxable base for the calculation of contributions to include beyond the wage additional allowances such as
the hot meal allowance, thirteenth salary, other in-kind remuneration and annual vacation supplement. This
was accompanied by alterations to benefit replacements rates as well as a reduction in labor taxation rates
to stimulate labor demand. Amendments were also introduced to significantly rationalize the entitlement to
severance pay from a maximum of 24-36 months of net wages to 2-5 months to facilitate corporate
restructuring and lower the cost of enterprise downsizing. As a second step and encompassing these
adjustments, the SPEAG supported the approval by the Government of Serbia of a new labor law which
was finally adopted by Parliament in 2001. This new law significantly modernized the previously socialist
legal framework in the field of labor. To foster labor market flexibility, the law

·        introduced fixed term, part-time and temporary employment contracts,
·        eliminated the mandatory extension of collective agreements to non-participating workers,
·        reduced special leave entitlements
·        reduced notice periods for dismissal,
·        introduced framework provisions on alternative mechanisms for labor dispute resolution (which
would be guided in more detail by a separate law which was drafted with SPEAG TA, see below),
·        introduced more market-oriented provisions on minimum wage determination.



                                                      - 3 -

While the adoption by parliament of the new Labor Law was supported by subsequent adjustment lending
(Structural Adjustment Credit I), all the policy work and the legislative drafting was supported under
SPEAG. The ambitious reform of the labor relations framework benefited from significant push from the
Ministry of Finance oriented by the aim to improve Serbia's competitiveness.

Moreover, technical assistance on the area of labor and employment has yielded a number of draft laws,
which are still awaiting adoption (Law on Peaceful Settlement of Collective and individual Labor Disputes;
Law on Socio-Economic Council; Law on Strikes; Law on Trade Unions and Employers' Associations;
Law on Records Maintenance in the Field of Labor; Law on Foreign Citizen's Labor). SPEAG also
financed local and international consultant support to the preparation a draft National Employment
Strategy which was recently adopted, although Ministry staff report dissatisfaction with the international
consultant contribution, and relied more on the local consultants hired under the assignment. While this
technical assistance was only utilized very late in the SPEAG's lifetime, the new Government has recently
made first moves towards submitting the Law on Socio-Economic Council into the parliamentary
procedure, with others to follow according to the line Ministry. The Labor and Employment assignments
under the SPEAG suffered from the line Ministry's lack of proactiveness in utilizing the grant to foster the
reform agenda under the previous Government as well as from the change in Government which effectively
froze implementation between October 2003 and March 2004.

It remains too early to assess the impact of the reforms in Serbia's labor legislation in terms of labor
market outcomes with available data being limited to the years just preceding the adoption of the new labor
law.

B. Social welfare and pensions: The outcome of the project in the area of social welfare and pensions is
rated satisfactory. The SPEAG fully met its objectives of supporting interim steps to improve the
effectiveness of the social safety net, and subsequently helping to develop the policy framework for a more
coherent safety net and social insurance system. In conjunction with co-financing grants, it was
successfully fostering the Ministry of Social Affairs' agenda of poverty alleviation, support to vulnerable
families and protection of children elderly and disabled persons and restructuring the pension system.

Social welfare legislation was amended to de-link social assistance and child allowance benefits from
wages and to index them to the cost of living on a trial basis, which were later made permanent in the
adoption of new child and family welfare legislation as well as amendments to the social welfare law. The
same applies to the introduction of a uniform Republic of Serbia-wide eligibility threshold. Initially the
SPEAG supported the issuing of instructions for beneficiary identification for one-off social welfare
payments while the principle was later introduced in legislation, supported by SOSAC. Moreover, the
operation and the co-financing grants funded technical assistance in support of the Ministry of Social
Affairs' reform agenda:

·       Poverty Survey: Funded under the Dutch co-financing, the SPEAG provided technical assistance
and implementation support for the design and implementation of the first representative household living
standards survey/poverty survey covering 6,500 households. The poverty survey data were also used
during the preparation of the PRSP, and this funding entailed technical follow up and analysis with special
regard to social assistance and support to vulnerable families with children as well as the Roma population.
This component was essential and timely, allowing the Government and other stakeholders to begin
analyzing poverty trends and evaluating the poverty-reduction impact of assistance programs over time.
Meanwhile, the PRSP unit within the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister has assumed responsibility for
poverty and PRSP monitoring (see below), with the Republican Statistical Office being in charge of doing


                                                      - 4 -

periodic updates of the poverty survey.
·        Transformation of residential institutions and deinstitutionalization: This entailed technical
assistance in monitoring and evaluating residential care for the elderly and an action plan for the
transformation of residential institutions. A foster care public information campaign triggered applications
from 1500 volunteer families and the eventual placement of 300 children in foster families (100 from
institutions and 200 from natural families). Technical assistance in drafting an operational manual for the
Ministry's social innovation fund (SIF) to spearhead and test new approaches to social services, as a
mechanism for fostering de-institutionalization, transformation of residential institutions and social services
decentralization, laid the ground for the planned introduction of the fund.
·        Social statistics: The operation included TA as well as technical equipment to introduce a tracking
system for war veterans to help eliminate overlapping entitlements and reduce the budget burden of war
veterans assistance.
·        Reform of the family code: Technical assistance in drafting a new family code through support of
a working group. A family code has been drafted, but has not been adopted yet.
·        PRSP monitoring system: Assistance in the preparation of a results-based national PRSP
monitoring system.

SPEAG successfully supported the initialization of the reform process of the pension system, at first in
supporting institutional changes in the line Ministry in forming a working group who was to be in charge of
conducting the technical reform work with input from consultant. In addition, SPEAG laid the ground for
the subsequent reforms by financing TA. In support of a pension reform strategy, this TA entailed advisory
services on

·        Administrative issues in pension system reform,
·        Review of the draft pension insurance law,
·        Program for the consolidation of the three pension funds.
·        preparation of a voluntary pensions law.

In-depth pension reform was later supported by the SAC I (adjustments to the Pension Law aimed at
improving the fiscal sustainability of the PAYGO system) and the SOSAC (a new Pension Law as well as
a Law on Voluntary Pension Funds, and provisions on consolidating the three pension funds), and built on
the SPEAG-financed technical assistance rendered to the Ministry of Social Affairs.

C. Health: The outcome of the project in the area of health is rated satisfactory. While aiming at less
ambitious policy reforms than in the area of Social Welfare and Pensions, stopping short of a substantial
reorganization of the health financing and health insurance system, the technical assistance in health was
nevertheless instrumental in providing input into the early reforms of the health system and supported the
preparation of the subsequent World Bank Serbia Health Project, in addition to a Health Project-specific
PHRD grant as well as the SACI and the SOSAC. The SPEAG-supported technical assistance components
contained the following elements:

·        Hospital Capacity restructuring: This included consultancies on the preparation of national health
planning standards and guidelines and the preparation of a health master plan, which have been supported
subsequently by the SOSAC operation. This also supported the Serbian Ministry of Finance agenda of
securing the downsizing of the health sector for fiscal reasons to ensure such rationalization would not
affect the quality of services.
·        Hospital functional planning for hospitals in Kraljevo, Valjevo, Vranje and Zrenjanin, aiming at
increasing the efficiency of hospital services and proposals to restructure the hospitals to be supported by



                                                      - 5 -

the Health Project.
·        Health Care System Communication Strategy to improve public understanding on the features,
aims and expected outcomes of health sector reforms in Serbia, feeding into follow-on support under the
Health-Project.
·        Health Technology Assessment and Strategy
·        Development of Health Information Communication Technology Standards and Meta Database
of health sector-related datasets and information technologies, which was further supported under the
Health Project.
·        Restructuring of the Oncology Care System, as a late SPEAG health sector TA component,
identifying strategic priorities in oncology health care system restructuring and advising a Ministry of
Health expert group tasked with developing an oncology reform strategy.
·        Consultancies on support for health care reform activities, coordination of project preparation
activities and procurement for the Health Project helped cover salaries of staff of the nascent PMU for
the Health Project for short periods of time.

Unlike in the area of labor and social welfare, the SPEAG did not support any early policy reforms in the
health sector through the budget support component but focused on health sector TA only.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Specific outputs by component are as follows:

Budget support

The policy reforms supported under the budget support component of the SPEAG and the attached Dutch
co-financing grant have been discussed above. The budget support, both SPEAG and the associated Dutch
Co-Financing were channeled through the MoSA's One-Off-Fund (OOF) which aimed at addressing the
inequities of the inherited social welfare system through one-off payments and without generating new
additional entitlements. Specifically, the SPEAG's budget support covered additional social assistance
payments to nearly 50,000 vulnerable families in November 2001, additional allowances for care of
another person to 3,000 beneficiaries in January 2002, pension arrears for 150,000 pensioners, and social
assistance coverage for 50,000 families between September and December 2002. The OOF was established
as a flexible tool to absorb and channel resources and donations towards the vulnerable, and the SPEAG
funds complemented other bilateral grants in financing an interim social safety net and the payment of
pension and social assistance arrears accumulated during the 1990s.

Technical assistance

The main objective of the TA component was to inform subsequent fundamental policy reforms in the area
of social welfare, pensions, labor and health. The individual outputs in the areas of labor/employment,
social welfare and pensions as well as health have been reviewed above. A detailed list of technical
assistance assignments can be found in the Annex.

While being envisaged to disburse over a timeline of 12 months, the technical assistance component of the
SPEAG took much longer to implement, and the closing date of the operation was extended twice.
Moreover, the two Canadian co-financing grants were not fully disbursed. The reasons for this lie with (i)
the significant adding-on of bilateral co-financing grants which came later, in some cases significantly later,
than the SPEAG, (ii) technical assistance absorption constraints within the line Ministries and Ministry
leadership discontinuities, (iii) implementation bottlenecks in the PMU, and (iv) the change of Government
which led to an effective standstill in SPEAG implementation between October 2003 and March 2004. As a


                                                      - 6 -

result, some of the TA outputs in particular in the areas of labor and health became available late and may
not have been informing subsequent policy reforms in as effective a manner as had been anticipated.

Project management

The management of the project had its deficiencies. Since the TA component of the project was small and
its implementation was foreseen to be finalized within a timeframe of 12 months, it was deemed
inappropriate to create special project implementation capacities within one of the line Ministries, the
Ministry of Social Affairs (MoSA), Ministry of Labor and Employment (MoLE) and the Ministry of
Health (MoH). Rather, procurement and financial management functions were outsourced to an existing
PMU situated in the privatization agency and implementing a PSD project. This generated problems in the
implementation process of the technical assistance components for a number of reasons. First, being
located outside the line Ministries in charge of the policy aspects of the operation, communication was
constrained. There was no cross-ministerial SPEAG working group charged with overseeing the
implementation of the project and no clearly agreed and regular communication channels between the
Ministries and the PMU's procurement staff. Moreover, the PMU staff were unfamiliar with the social
protection, labor and health subject matters. A year into the implementation of SPEAG, the Ministry of
Health started to set up its own PMU for the purposes of the Health Project which took over some of the
procurement responsibility from the PA PMU. In fact, as reported by the MoH PMU staff, cooperation
with the Privatization Agency PMU served as a capacity building tool for the MoH PMU, whose staff
could learn procedures "on the job" and from the PA PMU. However, the insufficient implementation
arrangements appear to have contributed to the delays in the implementation of the TA component of the
SPEAG and related co-financing grants.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N.A.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N.A.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The SPEAG's technical assistance component supported training and capacity building for key officials in
the three line Ministries. MoSA in particular used study tours, participation in international conferences
and training of key senior officials strategically as a tool to ensure sustainability of reforms. However, the
capacity-building was aimed at top-policy people in the MoSA mainly, and it appears that SPEAG and
co-financing resources could have supported staff capacity-building even more effectively and strategically
in particular in the area of labor and health, had a training needs assessment been conducted at the outset of
the reform process. By way of institutional development, the SPEAG supported the formation of working
groups in the line Ministries in charge of devising and elaborating the reform agendas with TA input. In the
area of social statistics, the SPEAG and co-financing supported capacity building through consultant
support of building a results-based national PRSP monitoring system and the analysis of the second wave
of the LSMS and the preparation and implementation of a poverty survey in Serbia. The newly established
PRSP unit within the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister is now in charge of poverty and PRSP
monitoring. The Republican Statistical Office is expected to take over the responsibility of doing periodic
updates of the poverty survey, including establishing official guidelines for poverty measurement.

The institutional development impact of the SPEAG is rated substantial.




                                                       - 7 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The second Canadian co-financing grant became active only in early 2003 ­ more than 12 months into the
SPEAG implementation. This late attachment of additional bilateral financing led to a delay in the closing
of the SPEAG and appears to have overburdened the absorptive capacities in the Ministries involved which
is evident in the fact that neither of the two Canadian grants had fully disbursed when the SPEAG closed in
mid 2004.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
During the early reform years, the Ministry of Health suffered from discontinuities in Ministerial leadership
with the absence of a Minister for extended periods of time. The lagging implementation of the TA for the
health sector, leading to the extension of the closing date of the operation and its associated co-financing
grants, can partly be explained by this policy leadership vacuum, in particular after the resignation of the
first Minister early in the project's implementation phase. Counterparts at Assistant Ministry level were
able to mitigate this to some extent, however were overburdened with tasks. In addition, PMU staff
complained about lack of effectiveness and excessive bureaucracy of the Ministry of Labor and
Employment and the fact that the counterpart for the project changed frequently, slowing down the
implementation progress.

As noted above, the communication arrangements for the implementation of the TA component and in
particular between the Ministries and the PMU were less than satisfactory and leading to delays in the
implementation. An inter-ministerial working group involving technical staff in charge of overseeing the
implementation and linking with the PMU may have significantly improved the pace of implementation.

During the implementation of the project, the three line Ministries as well as the PMU were struggling with
the issue of local taxes and contributions for consultant services financed out of the SPEAG and Canadian
grants. This was driven by parallel reforms which affected taxes and contributions applicable to local
consultants and which created problems for direct recipients (such as the line Ministries for SPEAG) which
had not set aside adequate allocations for taxes and contributions within their budgets. For the purposes of
SPEAG it was eventually agreed that contributions for local consultant salaries be paid from the allocation
for operating costs.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementation of the project and the effectiveness of the PMU suffered from the complexity of the
project design, the ill-suited communication and operational arrangements between the Ministries and the
PMU, leading to complaints from Ministry staff with respect to slow work of the PMU and complaints
from PMU staff with respect to slowness in ministerial decision-making and lack of guidance. However,
SPEAG implementation delays were affected more by the overall project implementation arrangements than
by PMU performance itself.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Despite being extended twice, the Canadian co-financing grants attached to the SPEAG did not fully
disburse the funds allocated to the technical assistance component, mainly driven by implementation delays
in the Ministry of Labor. Moreover, towards the end of project implementation, it was decided to reallocate
US$ 170,000 within the SPEAG from the technical assistance component to the budget support component.
The disbursement summary by the individual trust funds is indicated below.




                                                      - 8 -

Disbursement Summary SPEAG and Co-Financing, in US$
                                         Amount allocated      Amount disbursed      Amount undisbursed
World Bank SPEAG TF ­ TF                                10.00                 9.99                  0.01
50017
Canadian I ­ TF 50567                                     0.38                0.23                  0.15
Canadian II ­ TF 50977                                    0.37                0.28                  0.09
Swedish ­ TF 50295                                        1.59                1.59                  0.00
Dutch ­ TF 50256                                         2.00                 2.00                  0.00



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall project sustainability is rated likely. Sustainability of social welfare reforms under the project are
rated highly likely while those of the other activities is rated likely. As noted, the policy reforms supported
under this operations had an interim character and laid the ground for subsequent, more long-term and
fundamental reforms. New labor legislation has been adopted, pension reform enacted and social welfare
and initial health care reforms brought under way. While significant challenges remain not least in the area
of pensions with the pension deficit standing at 6 percent of GDP, the social protection system now looks
dramatically different and more in tune with the fiscal realities and requirements of an emerging market
economy. SPEAG-supported reforms have thus proven sustainable so far, and are reflected in the
Government's first PRSP adopted in 2003.

However, the political scene has still not matured to the extend that all political actors broadly share
opinion on the reform directions. This means that change in government still carries the risk of policy
reversals. For example, the current Government elected in late 2003 has initiated steps to draft yet another
new labor law with provisions which would reverse the positive reform steps inherent in the labor law
supported by SPEAG and SAC I, although at the time of writing this report, it is unclear as to whether it
really intends to proceed with this. The sustainability of the reforms in labor legislation and beyond will
therefore have to continue to be monitored, and the Implementation Completion Report for the SOSAC
which will close at the end of the calendar year 2004 will be a suitable vehicle for this.

The fact that reforms have not been reversed to date, more than three years down the line, can be
considered a success given Serbia's tumultuous recent history and in comparison to other transition
countries where a three-year and uninterrupted reform process has not been the rule. The main reasons for
this impressive reform record of the first democratic Government of Serbia appear to have lain in the strong
mandate for reform given by the electorate in late 2000, the Government's single-minded agenda of
capitalizing on this mandate even at the risk of losing the next election as well as skillful maneuvering in
during the course of its mandate. In fact, the Government over the course of its mandate produced new
legislative initiatives at a faster rate than the parliament could process them. While it remains to be seen
whether the initiated reform process proves sustainable beyond, few would argue that Serbia can afford to
substantially reverse policy reforms which are essential for labor market improvements and fiscal
sustainability at a time when it aspires to join the process of EU accession.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Being a "foundation" operation through supporting initial reforms with quick adjustments to the labor and
social welfare framework as well as financing technical assistance underpinning subsequent policy reforms,
the SPEAG laid the ground for following Bank operations. The reform threads in the areas of labor and



                                                        - 9 -

employment, pensions, social welfare and health were taken up in the subsequent Structural Adjustment
Credit I, the Social Sector Adjustment Credit, the Health Project and the Structural Adjustment Credit II.
Further pension reforms will be supported under the planned Pension Administration Reform Project. The
close linkage between the SPEAG and follow-on operation was driven not least by the fact that there was
continuity in the key Bank team in charge of designing the initial lending portfolio across the first three
years of reform.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The SPEAG was designed very quickly in order to assist the newly-elected democratic Government of
Serbia to make headway in the reform process. The SPEAG was fully consistent with the Transitional
Support Strategy (TSS) which governed Bank operations in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) in
the absence of a Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). During the preparation of the SPEAG, the Bank
provided extensive policy advice in the area of labor and social welfare in particular. Moreover, the
preparation of the SPEAG was seamlessly followed by the preparation of the SAC I, SOSAC and SAC II,
indicating that the SPEAG marked the initialization of a sustained reform process supported by significant
and continuous Bank policy advice. In preparing the SPEAG, the Bank responded to the Government's
demand to proceed quickly with key policy reforms so as to seize the opportunities rendered by the election
victory of the new democratic Government and public support for reforms.

In 2001 bilateral donor interest in sustaining Serbia's reform process after years of non-reform under the
Milosevic regime was immense, and the Government was seeking effective ways to accommodate the donor
funding and maximize its impact. SPEAG, therefore, also proved an attractive vehicle for triggering
additional bilateral donor support through co-financing trust funds. The team preparing SPEAG, therefore,
had to quickly add components to the project, in particular in the technical assistance component. However,
implementation bottlenecks driven by the project's increasing complexity could have been anticipated and
mitigated.

The Bank's performance in responding to the Government's and the country's needs in identifying areas in
need of support and designing an appropriate structure of the policy reform component of the SPEAG is
rated satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
Given implementation challenges in the technical assistance component as noted above, the SPEAG was
extended twice and had a lifetime of more than three years. This reflects that the project turned out more
supervision-intensive than anticipated. As noted above, the technical assistance component was disbursing
significantly slower than expected, which was driven by limited absorptive capacities of the line Ministries,
in particular MOLE and MOH and the imperfect implementation arrangements. A change in disbursement
arrangements with responsibility moving from Washington, DC to Zagreb also led to some disruptions.
More and closer supervision both by the task team leader (TTL) and Bank procurement staff may have
helped speed up the process. Ideally the project could have been managed by a Country Office staff in the
supervision phase: Supervision was also rendered more difficult by the fact that, over the operation's
lifetime, the project had three TTLs, whose time was taken up significantly by efforts to simultaneously
design follow-on operations (SAC I, SOSAC, HP). While this appears to have come somewhat at the
expense of SPEAG supervision, it allowed the Bank team to effectively and relatively flexibly utilize
SPEAG to respond to Government needs in building follow-on projects on the SPEAG reform agenda. This
ensured the relevance of the SPEAG as an underpinning for the ensuing policy reforms. The Bank's
supervision performance is ranked satisfactory.


                                                    - 10 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government, most notably the Ministry of Social Affairs, was very actively involved in the design of
the grant. The SPEAG was given its unusual hybrid form to accommodate the Government's request for
budget support as well as technical assistance in the social sector to help get the reform process under way.
The borrower's performance during project preparation is rated satisfactory overall. However, since the
grant involved three line Ministries, it is useful to differentiate between the performance of the three
Ministries. The Ministry of Social Affairs appears to have been the "brains" of the SPEAG's preparation
on the borrower's side and its performance is rated highly satisfactory. As opposed to that, the Ministries
of Labor and Health were less influential in terms of policy formulation during preparation and, while
agreeing to the SPEAG components, relied more on Bank suggestions in identifying the key arrears in need
of attention. Their performance is rated modest.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government moved quickly and proactively on the policy reform agenda supported by the SPEAG's
budget support component, and had met all the commitments by the time the grant became effective. It
subsequently continued to pursue an ambitious reform agenda in social welfare and pensions as well as
labor and health, building on the foundations laid under SPEAG. Implementation of the technical assistance
component was slow for a number of reasons, ranging from the absence of a Minister of Health,
overburdening of key Ministry officials, limited absorptive capacities as well as varying degrees of interest
over time in some of the components. Moreover, the three Ministries and the PMU did not appear to set up
clear enough communication channels facilitating the difficult implementation of a grant with components
stretched across three Ministries. As a result, Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory
for the Ministry of Social Affairs and modest for the Ministries of Labor and Health, where the
implementation was demand-driven on the technical level, but supply-driven on the policy level, and where
the main responsibility for implementation delays lie. Overall Government implementation performance is
rated satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
As noted above, the project implementation unit situated in the Privatization Agency faced a difficult task
of supporting the implementation of a grant. There was dissatisfaction within the Ministries at slow
procurement processes, and frustration within the PMU at lack of guidance form the Ministries. This
demonstrates a clash of two worlds ­ Ministries with an ambitious reform agenda and a rapid pace of
operations and the PMU responsible to comply with complex, time-consuming and unfamiliar World Bank
procurement methods. Ultimately, the responsibility for implementation delays lie with the Ministries rather
than the PMU, as it would have been the Ministries' responsibility to ensure a smoother communication
with the PMU, e.g. through a specific SPEAG working group or designated officials overseeing the
coordination with the PMU. Likewise, it would have been the responsibility of the Ministries and the Bank
to make arrangements for additional remuneration of the PMU for the additional co-financing beyond a
first allocation tied to the SPEAG itself, and to have agreed clear service standards with the PMU. Taking
into account the project's challenging implementation arrangements, the performance of the implementation
agency is rated satisfactory.

Implementation delays could have been better foreseen and mitigated, although it is also important to note
that the period of SPEAG implementation was an extra-ordinary period of quick and substantial reform



                                                       - 11 -

which would have overstretched any administration of an emerging transition economy, indicating that the
implementation of SPEAG-supported TA was crowded out at times.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory, largely on account of the very strong performance of
the Ministry of Social Affairs in designing the policy agenda and designing and running the technical
assistance components.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1 Government buy-in and demand-driven Bank support show biggest results: The SPEAG is a prime
example for the Bank flexibly responding to a Government which is pushing strongly for reforms in a
narrow window of opportunity. It also shows the difference in results and impact between cases where a
counterpart is actively shaping the process and setting the agenda for technical assistance and its follow-up,
and those where counterparts are not in the driver's set but wait for the Bank's push. Serbia's Ministry of
Social Affairs was the main driver in the social welfare reforms and the TA for social welfare and
pensions, while the Ministry of Finance was boldly pushing the labor law reform. As opposed to that, the
Ministries of Labor as well as Health appeared to have been less able to push the agenda (for such reasons
as the absence of a Minister over an extended period of time) and less strategic in utilizing the technical
assistance vehicle provided for by SPEAG. As a result, the Ministry of Social Affairs was faster and more
effective in implementing the SPEAG technical assistance components and following through on the policy
reforms than the other Ministries.

8.2 Extended staff in-country presence and extensive and flexible availability of a core team helps the
Bank to effectively respond to Government requests for support in a period of ambitious reforms. Being
based in Budapest at the time, the SPEAG Task Team Leader (TTL) of the project during preparation was
able to effectively support the Government in the pursuit of its early and ambitious reform agenda in the
areas of labor legislation and social welfare reforms. While the preparation relied on crucial input of
visiting Washington-based staff, the fact that the TTL was able to spend extended time in Serbia and was
able to continuously support the working group drafting the new labor law with ongoing policy support,
helped the rapid pace of SPEAG preparation. Moreover, the core Bank team working on the early social
protection reforms was virtually unchanged from the first task of preparing the Country Economic
Memorandum, through the SPEAG, SACI and SOSAC preparations which ensured a seamless overall
linkage of the Bank operations' support to the reform process.

8.3 For a complex project with significant co-financing, ensure effective implementation arrangements
and review if necessary: This is true in particular when, as in the case of SPEAG, the PMU is situated in a
different Government department and occupied with an entirely different subject matter. There was no
alternative to using the PA PMU in 2001 when the SPEAG was designed, given the limited size of the
SPEAG technical assistance (with an original alloaction of US$ 800,000 and disbursed amount of only
close to US$ 610,000) and the anticipated 12 month implementation period. However, this arrangements
should have been reviewed once additional co-financing became effective. The implementation bottlenecks
caused by this structure could have been mitigated by an effective communication mechanism comprising
all three line Ministries as well as PMU to keep a grip on the implementation and disbursement progress.
This could have taken the form of a working group overseeing the implementation and which would meet
once a month. Such a group could also have rendered Bank supervision more effective and less
resource-intensive. Moreover, the additional co-financing should have included additional remuneration for
the PMU and clear service standards should have been agreed between the Ministries and the PMU.
Alternatively, the Ministries and the Bank could have agreed to re-assign the procurement and



                                                    - 12 -

disbursement functions to another PMU in one of the line Ministries such as the new PMU in the Ministry
of Health which was set up for the purposes of the Health Project. Due to its initially devised short
life-time, the SPEAG design did not foresee a mid-term review which may otherwise have advised changes
to the implementation arrangements.

8.4 Do not over-design a project which is to disburse fast: At the preparation stage, SPEAG was intended
to disburse over a period of 12 months, in order to reap the benefit of the technical assistance in a timely
manner. However, as became quickly apparent, this was overambitious: First, the complicated structure of
the SPEAG with a number of co-financing grants spread across various TA assignments and across three
Ministries was a major obstacle to a speedy implementation and would have probably led to bottlenecks in
any country. Second, the second Canadian grant came in only as late as early 2003, more than 12 months
into the project. Third, the absorptive capacity for TA in Serbia's Ministries were limited given the tall
reform agenda faced by the key ministry staff. Lastly, the complex design did not help the overburdened
Ministry staff as well as the PMU in a system which already proved ill-suited to implement quickly (see
above). A more coherent structure of the TA component, better communication and a review of the
implementation arrangements after a year of implementation (with the possible identification of a separate
PMU in one of the line Ministries) might have lessened the delays.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

1. Ministry of Social Affairs

Background: Approaching reforms in the social sector, the Ministry focused on three main areas: poverty
alleviation, support to families and protection of children, elderly and disabled persons, and restructuring of
the pension system. In order to evaluate the current status and define the focus of the reform process and
necessary policy changes within the social welfare sector, the Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA)
established mechanisms to address poverty, social protection of vulnerable population and pension system.
In partnership with others (WB, UN Agencies, local institutions and others) MOSA adopted a participatory
approach in addressing the issue of vulnerability and poverty by providing access to rights and inclusion.
The reform processes in the social sector by provision of rights and entitlements will be strengthened by the
establishment of mechanisms of decentralisation, deinstitutionalisation, covering of the transition costs,
transmission of good practices and progressing of the reform processes. The Ministry is pursuing the
following long-term aims: (i) assist the families and individuals in providing minimum of social
assistance/security to develop mechanisms for poverty alleviation (related to Poverty Reduction Strategy);
(ii) develop the main principles of alternative forms of social care and protection for population at large;
and (iii) develop a pension reform strategy

Description of the Project: During 2001 and 2002 the outstanding debt in social/cash assistance (towards
social cases ­ poor families and recipients/beneficiaries of child/maternity allowances, and other benefits)
was eliminated. The debt share towards pensioners has been eliminated in a small degree. However, the
negative effects of the past decade could not been removed in the period of two years. In order to define a
poverty profile MOSA conducted a Poverty Survey (supported by WB) on 6,500 households that should
contribute to policy changes in social welfare and to PRSP (Poverty Reduction Strategy Process). WB
assistance to the Republic of Serbia has been aimed at development of reform strategies, policies and
legislative and institutional framework in the areas of pensions, labor markets, social welfare, social
statistics and health sectors, through the provision of consulting services, training and goods.




                                                     - 13 -

Former Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA) of the Republic of Serbia committed itself to a reform package
in social welfare that will affect large groups of population. During 1990s poverty has become widespread
and over one decade, the impoverishment and vulnerability of the poor strata of society have increased.
While evaluating and addressing policy in social welfare, the need to compensate the poorest, affected by
policy changes, exists. In order to bridge the gap between inherited social transfer program and new policy,
the Ministry of Social Affairs/Government of Serbia has established the One-Off Fund (OOF) to address
the inequities in the inherited targeting of social assistance on an interim basis by focusing available
resources on the poor population. To date, the funds channeled through this mechanism were committed by
the World Bank and other bilateral donors such as Governments of France, Norway, Netherlands and
Sweden.

The OOF is intended as an instrument for addressing urgent social safety net needs in a manner that does
not generate long term entitlements which may not be fiscally sustainable. The intention is that it acts as the
key interim solution complementing the existing cash transfer programs. Funds from donors allocated to
OOF have been used for a range of purposes, such as: a) periodic cash transfers to the poorest and the most
vulnerable households (e.g. the poorest families /social cases/ with large number of children/dependants) or
poor households in poor areas who do not automatically qualify to regular social assistance under the
existing legislation (e.g. additional 12,000 families as identified as "new poor"), b) payment of arrears
generated by the previous Government on social assistance (e.g. 26 month-arrears to family Support
Scheme ­ the poorest families, social cases or arrears for child allowance recipients), c) payments of
"bonds" issued by the previous Government to social welfare beneficiaries (e.g. bonds for child
allowances), and d) payments to poor pensioners or arrears on their pensions (e.g. supplementary payments
to the poorest pensioners and arrears for agriculture pensioners).

The WB Social Protection Economic Assistance Grant, apart from services, goods and training, consisted
of the portion of 9.2 million USD (a portion of the Grant in support of the Program) as a direct support to
the most vulnerable beneficiaries in social welfare.

The former MOSA also in practical terms implemented the reform activities with setting up key elements:
(i) a clear strategy that define objectives, priorities and actions; (ii) a Policy Unit and Policy Support Unit
coordinates policy development and ensures access to financial resources to implement policies; (iii) the
involvement of almost the entire structure of the Ministry in the reform implementation process, jointly with
external local expertise through a consultation process (university, institutes, NGO sector, etc.),
inter-ministerial coordination and the participation of social partners and stakeholders; and (iv) the
introduction of participatory management methods ­ working group approach with support of consultants.

Apart from planning and programming, there was a high degree of political commitment, effective
mobilization of local expertise and clearly defined short and long term objectives. The reform process
started at the beginning of the year 2001 with formulation of reform objectives, immediate priorities and
activities and mid-term policy plan. Inter-ministerial coordination was based on extensive consultation
process with social partners and all relevant local and international actors interested in the process of social
policy reforms. The World Bank team for social protection from the very beginning supported the MOSA
efforts in reform activities in all areas of intervention, and respected the priorities emerged through the
process of planning as well as in implementation. That supportive approach also reflected in a good
cooperation and joint work in mutual good understanding.

Financing: Funds of this grant were more than sufficient as the WB TA portion. The only shortcoming of
this grant would be defined as a pre-timely opportunity. Therefore, due to insufficient capacity of all the
actors (MOSA and PA) in the very beginning of policy changes (2001) in following complex WB


                                                        - 14 -

procurement and disbursement procedures, the closing date was extended twice (thank to understanding of
WB staff). However, even with extension of the Closing Date, it was not possible to manage the
co-financing grant funds up to maximum extent (insufficient capacity, PMU placed outside of the MOSA,
parallel funds and activities, complex procedures).

Lessons Learned: The main lessons learned from the SPEAG (and the other grants) as valuable
contributions to reforms are related to the importance of focusing on local consultants in the
implementation of policy reforms. On the other hand, the involvement of the PMU, as prescribed by the
Bank and placed in the Privatization Agency, could be the obstacle to more efficient and effective
implementation of policy reforms. This tools for releasing one government from the procurement and
disbursement Bank procedures in essence is good idea, but during the development of that tool, 1) it should
be placed within one of the govt. ministries (not placed outside, in Serbia case, into the Privatization
Agency, which was already over-burdened by its own operations), and 2) the proper capacity building
scheme should be in place for such a unit, to design it as a support service not service to be supported.

Achievement of Project Objectives and Outputs: Favorable initial conditions and a conducive context
within the former MOSA, as stated earlier, no doubt contributed to the success of this grant. It is seen that
this "instrument" (modus operandi) may also have potential in non-conducive environment. The approach
in implementation, i.e. responsiveness and focus on local resources (capacity) allowed for exploiting all
possible opportunities to introduce elements of change. In non-conducive environments, the designed even
of comprehensive reform packages often fails because of lack of ownership, particularly if international
consultants were responsible for formulation. By contras, small actions in the right direction (within the
wider scope of reforms in sector and prioritization) the introduction of new practices and in particular the
capacity to provide quick response to whatever request comes from the senior officials, can help to gain the
trust of key policy makers and pave the way for more significant steps and for larger project.

All assignments focus on key reform areas: policy formulation and related drafting of laws, implementation
of pilot projects in the area of social protection and social services, and development of policy tools. All
projects have produced or are producing their expected outputs in due time, some of them have even
already directly or indirectly produced an impact on citizens welfare (e.g. direct impact: payment of arrears
for farmer pensioners or additional payment to vulnerable beneficiaries; and indirect: preparation of
Operation Manual for Social Innovation Fund or Tracking System for War Veterans or Pension Law, etc.)
and hand in hand with other reform activities funded from the budget or other external funds, will certainly
contribute to wider impact on mid-term or long term objectives. The added value of this grant with other
complementary activities funded form the budget and other external sources is reflected in enhanced
capacity of the professionals in the sector both at local and national level. The sense of ownership of the
reform processes is one of the key issues for reform successes in social welfare.

Sustainability and constraints: As stated above, the sustainability of the reform processes should be
achieved if the political context remained stable. Since the direction of the reform processes remains
uninterrupted, the planned activities within the long-term framework will lead to sustainable social welfare
environment. The only constraint is if the political situation becomes unstable or reform processes
interrupted. In both cases, the reform processes will be put backwards and the commitments and efforts of
professional force in the sector will slowly evaporate/vanish.

2. Ministry of Health

Description of the Project: The Ministry of Health has mobilized technical assistance to support
development of the Health Care System Reform Strategy, the Ministry of Health and Health Insurance


                                                      - 15 -

Fund capacity building and development of health reform policies and health sector legislative. The MoH
has also engaged two national coordinators from budgetary resources, to support consultants in very
specific and demanding fields (Oncology restructuring and Health technology assessment).

Financing: The World Bank financing toward the Project totaled US$ 567,000.00, of which US$ 310.000
from SPEAG and US$ 257,000.00 from Canadian co-financing grant resources. The Ministry has utilized
a total of US$ 541,357.00 (95.5 %). Contributions to the project implementation from the Ministry of
Health budget totaled US$ 26,361.00.

Bank and Borrower performance: Bank performance was satisfactory. Changes in the project leadership
have not imposed delays in the implementation or lack of support to the Ministry. Particularly valuable was
role of local (Belgrade based) Bank staff, who assured continuity and consistency in realization of planned
activities. The Ministry performance was burdened by resignation of the Minister in September 2003 and
consequent lack of continuity, leadership and authority towards other Government bodies and health sector
institutions and partners. Additionally, implementation arrangements with divided responsibilities between
the Ministry of Health and the Privatization Agency (procurement and disbursement agent) caused
operational difficulties, as the project documents have not clearly stipulated working relationship and roles
of institutions in different phases of implementation (frequently it was not transparent what is the
Ministry's role in procurement phases, who is responsible for financial management in terms of taxes and
contributions, etc.). The project was designed very ambitiously, given that the Ministry did not have any
experience in the implementation of the World Bank projects. Moreover, additional financing by Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA) in the period of SPEAG phasing out, created extra pressure for
the implementation units and therefore the grant extensions were inevitable. At the same time, the Ministry
of Health was facing the lack of leadership and decision making process was prolonged, causing number of
implementation difficulties to the Privatization Agency and Project Coordination Unit.

Lessons learnt: The Ministry has recognized the need to develop in house capacity for the implementation
of the World Bank funded projects, due its specific regulations and procedures, unfamiliar to the Ministry
staff. Starting from March 2003, the Project Coordination Unit is formed and initially staffed with
personnel capable to manage the projects implementation. During 2003 and early 2004, staff has received
tailored trainings in procurement and disbursement, organized by local Bank staff or consultants. Beside
specific expertise, the Ministry is lacking overall capacity to undertake substantial reform efforts.
Understaffed and under skilled personnel in majority of the Ministry' Sectors, even if supported by the
local Bank office and Technical Assistance (consultants), was not capable to maintain the momentum in the
reform strategy development and implementation of reform priorities. The Ministry has initiated capacity
building with number of national and international partners (UNDP, WHO, EAR, IPH, HIF, etc.),
developed new "Systematization" document and proposing doubling of the Ministry' capacity. In early
2004, the Government has adopted the "Systematization" document, providing the formal support for the
Ministry development in accordance with reform priorities. During May 2004, the "Systematization" is
upgraded with the new Sector on Quality assurance, Licensing and Accreditation, under authority of the
Assistant Minister. Engagement of local temporary support staff, assigned to enhance coordination of the
international consultants work in very specific and demanding fields like oncology or health technologies,
has raised the consultants understanding of local context and health care system performance, and
consequently proposed reports and developed reform components were more applicable to Serbia health
care system. Scarce budgetary resources of the Ministry of Health could not provide following of this
concept in all other reform related fields.

Sustainability: Activities implemented under SPEAG and Canadian co-financing grants were initial for the
development of the Ministry of Health capacity for preparation of health sector reform agenda and


                                                     - 16 -

initiation of preparatory activities for World Bank loans in 2003 and 2004. Through out the grants
implementation the Ministry has developed Project Coordination Unit, improved performance of the
Financial Unit and created positive change in intersectoral coordination. The reports developed by the
consultants are presenting a platform in a number of reform priority areas, enabling the Ministry and other
health sector key players to have better understanding of the reform process, regional and EU experiences
and at the same time provide range of solutions and alternatives for reform implementation. Staff trainings
were mainly focused on the permanent staff of the Ministry, HIF and IPH instead of politically engaged (at
the same time temporary) personnel. Consequently upgrade of staff skills, knowledge, experience and know
how is remaining in the system, providing capacity sufficient to assure continuity of activities.

Constraints: Long lasting political instability with frequent elections on all levels (Parliamentary,
presidential, local, etc.), coupled with the Minister's resignation in September 2003, created an extremely
difficult environment for the implementation of reform-related activities, discontinuity of policies and
strategies and lack of leadership. Weak public administration is recognizable on all levels, from the
Ministry to regional and local health care institutions. Institutionalization of centralized management, very
low regional and local autonomy, weak local initiatives and passive attitude of both personnel and
management, does not provide options for realization of reform related activities. The Ministry is lacking
executions and control mechanisms, and although that legislative is very strict, the Ministry's decisions are
not always resulting in implementation.

3. Ministry of Labor and Employment

In relation to the World Bank Implementation Report of the SPEAG Project the Ministry expresses the
following opinion:

Outcome: The Project had great impact on the adoption of the current Labor Law that became effective in
2001. In relation to other legislative activities we would like to stress the importance of the project
concerning the drafting of the Law on the Peaceful Settlement of Labor Disputes, Law on the
Social-Economic Council, Law on Strikes, Law on Employment and Work of Foreign Citizens and Law on
Record Keeping in the Area of Labor. Taking into consideration the importance of the social dialog in the
comprehensive social reforms and labor relations in the Republic, the Government of the Republic of
Serbia on the session held on September 2, 2004 defined the draft Law on the Social-Economic Council
and draft Law on the Peaceful Settlement of Labor Disputes and submitted them to the National Assembly
of the Republic of Serbia for adoption. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is expected to
decide on these draft laws during the next week.

We would also like to point out that the draft Law on Strikes has been prepared and final consultations are
currently being held with representatives of social partners on proposed solutions. It is expected to pass
other regulations that would integrate the overall labor legislation by the end of the year.

Sustainability: The Ministry believes that the evaluation that the current Government has reversed
positive reform steps because it has initiated the process of preparation of the new Labor Law are not
correct: The preparation of the draft Law was initiated due to the need and obligation of the Republic of
Serbia to harmonize legal regulations with legal standards of the European Union and International Labor
Organization aimed at providing of work conditions that correspond to those of the European Union and
creation of business conditions acceptable to new investments, development of business, small and medium
enterprises and entrepreneurship. The objectives of the law are also to increase the employment rate, to
solve surplus manpower and to improve the social dialog at the employer, sectoral and national level.




                                                      - 17 -

This Ministry submitted the draft Labor Law to the International Labor Organization that provided
comments on the Law. The International Labor Organization stated that they "acknowledge that the draft
Law contains significant number of improvements in respect to the Law currently in force." Therefore, the
new Labor Law has support of the International Labor Organization and evaluation that it is better that the
law currently in force. We consider that this Law will provide continuation of the labor legislation reform.

In relation to the Draft Law on Unions and Associations of Employers we would like to point out the
following: Considering the fact that subsequently to the drafting of the Law on Unions and Associations of
Employers this Ministry has started the work on harmonization of the Labor Law with EU Directives, it
has been decided to incorporate provisions that should have been regulated by the Law on Unions and
Associations of Employers into the new Labor Law; this decision was agreed with representatives of unions
and associations of employers. Namely, it is easier and faster to regulate related issues by the same law and
this position was fully supported by the social partners.

In the section of the Report related to issues of employment, social protection and pensions, we would like
to stress that reforms are being carried on regardless political changes.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

N/A




                                                    - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                        1
                Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Implement reformed labor laws, initiate                                      Interim amendments to the old labor code
overhaul of all existing labor legislation.                                  were implemented from mid-2001, while the
                                                                             new labor law was passed by the Serbian
                                                                             Parliament in December 2001. Ministry
                                                                             working groups prepared draft Laws on
                                                                             Peaceful Settlement of Collective and
                                                                             individual Labor Disputes, on
                                                                             Socio-Economic Council, on Strikes, on
                                                                             Trade Unions and Employers' Associations,
                                                                             on Records Maintenance in the Field of Labor
                                                                             and Law on Foreign Citizen's Labor which
                                                                             are awaiting adoption.
Take initial steps towards improving poverty                                 Serbian Parliament adopted new social
alleviation impact of social welfare transfers                               welfare and child protection legislation in
and improving fiscal sustainability of social                                2003 and 2004 incorporating interim changes
safety net by piloting benefit indexation to the                             to legislation piloted with SPEAG-support,
cost of living and a uniform eligibility                                     such as the introduction of a Republic-wide
threshold.                                                                   eligibility threshold and indexation of benefits
                                                                             to the cost of living.
Undertake analytical work to underpin reform                                 Technical assistance work has contributed to
proposals in social insurance.                                               the amendments to the Federal Pension
                                                                             Insurance Law in 2001 endorsing parametric
                                                                             changes to the PAYGO system and to the
                                                                             preparation and adoption of a new
                                                                             Republican Pensions Law in 2003.




Output Indicators:
                                                                        1
                Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                                          - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
1. Social Policy                                             0.78             0.61              78
2. Project Implementation                                    0.02             0.01              50
3. Budgetary support component                               9.20             9.37             102

Total Baseline Cost                                         10.00             9.99
                        Total Project Costs                 10.00             9.99
                  Total Financing Required                  10.00             9.99


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.00         0.04          0.00         0.04
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.04)          (0.00)       (0.04)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         0.65          0.00         0.65
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.65)          (0.00)       (0.65)
4. Study tours and Training       0.00              0.00         0.04          0.00         0.04

                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.04)          (0.00)       (0.04)
5. Incremental Operationg         0.00              0.00         0.02          0.00         0.02
Cost                              (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.02)          (0.00)       (0.02)
6. Unallocated                    0.00              0.00         0.05          0.00         0.05
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.05)          (0.00)       (0.05)
   Total                          0.00              0.00         0.80          0.00         0.80
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.80)          (0.00)       (0.80)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00             0.00         0.04           0.00        0.04
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.04)         (0.00)       (0.04)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00         0.53           0.07        0.60
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.53)         (0.07)       (0.60)
4. Study tours and Training       0.00             0.00         0.04           0.00        0.04




                                                - 20 -

                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.04)            (0.00)           (0.04)
5. Incremental Operationg              0.00               0.00              0.01             0.00              0.01
Cost                                  (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.01)            (0.00)           (0.01)
6. Unallocated                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                               0.00               0.00              0.62             0.07              0.69
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.62)            (0.07)           (0.69)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               05/01/2001                5     TEAM LEADER (1)
                                               ECONOMIST (1)
                                               SENIOR ECONOMIST(1)
                                               LABOR ECONOMIST (1)
                                               SR. FINANCE OFFICER (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               05/14/2001                5     TEAM LEADER (1)
                                               ECONOMIST (1)
                                               SENIOR ECONOMIST (1)
                                               LABOR ECONOMIST (1)
                                               SR. FINANCE OFFICER (1)
               6/23/2001                 5     TEAM LEADER (1)
                                               ECONOMIST (1)
                                               SENIOR ECONOMIST (1)
                                               LABOR ECONOMIST (1)
                                               SR. FINANCE OFFICER (1)

 Supervision
               6/10/2002                  1    TEAM LEADER (1)                      S               S
               6/26/2003                  1    TEAM LEADER (1)                      S               S
               11/04/2003                 4    TEAM LEADER (1);                     S               S
                                               OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                               LABOR ECONOMIST (1);
                                               HEALTH (1)

 ICR
               7/15/2004                 1     SOCIAL PROTECTION                    S               S
                                               SPECIALIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  10                           34.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       15                           52.5
  Supervision                                 44                         100.5
  ICR                                          5                            9.0
  Total                                       74                         196.0




                                               - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

SPEAG Project Document, Report No: 22300-YU
SPEAG Implementation Completion Report, Ministry of Health, Republic of Serbia
SPEAG Implementation Completion Report, Ministry of Social Affairs, Republic of Serbia
Canada Co-Financing Implementation Completion Report, Ministry of Social Affairs, Republic of Serbia
Netherlands Co-Financing Implementation Completion Report, Ministry of Social Affairs, Republic of
Serbia
Implementation Completion Reports on consultancies on drafting the Law on Peaceful Settlement of
Collective and individual Labor Disputes; Law on Socio-Economic Council; Law on Strikes; Law on Trade
Unions and Employers' Associations; Law on Records Maintenance in the Field of Labor; Law on Foreign
Citizen's Labor, Ministry of Labor and Employment, Republic of Serbia
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia - Transitional Support Strategy (TSS), Report No: 22090-YU
Serbia SAC1 President's Report, Report No: P-7494-YU
Serbia SAC1 Implementation Completion Report, Report No: 25616-YU
Serbia SOSAC Project Document, Report No: 25668-YU
Serbia Health Project, Project Appraisal Document, Report No: 25656-YU
Serbia and Montenegro Poverty Assessment, Report No: 26011-YU




                                                 - 26 -

- 27 -

