Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
March
26, 2002
H.E. Miroljub Labus
Deputy Prime Minister
Belgrade
11000
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Re:
Dutch Grant for Co-financing of the Social Protection Economic 
Assistance Grant  Grant Number TF
050256
Excellency:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) 
and International Development Association (IDA) (IBRD and IDA being hereinafter collectively referred 
to as the Bank) to indicate the Bank
’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the 
Netherlands, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding two million United States dollars
(US$2,000,000) not exceeding two million two hundred eighty-seven thousand forty-six Euro (Euro 
2,287,046) (the Grant) to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient 
represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant 
for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank of the 
copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as of 
the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/ Rory C. O’Sullivan
Country Manager
for Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
By Miroljub Labus
Title Deputy Prime Minister
Date: April 2, 2002
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
Page  2
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is co-finance the Social Protection Economic Assistance Grant, which 
has as its main objectives to: (a) support  a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve structural adjustment of the Republic of Serbia
’s social protection and labor sectors (the 
Program);  and (b) to support a project which has as main objectives to: (ii) promote a market-oriented 
labor relations framework to facilitate initial restructuring and job growth in the Republic of Serbia; (ii) 
support interim steps to improve equity of the safety net, and help develop a policy framework for a more 
coherent safety net in the Republic of Serbia; and (iii) assist the Republic of Serbia to prepare for more 
comprehensive reforms of the social insurance system (the Project) in accordance with Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement
(TF050017) between International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and 
International Development Association (Acting Jointly as the Administrator of the Trust Fund for FRY) 
dated September 5, 2001 (the Trust Fund Grant Agreement).  The purposes for which the Grant is given 
are as follows:
(a)
provision of support of the Program referred to in paragraph B of the Preamble of the 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement; and
(b)
provision of technical assistance in carrying out poverty survey in accordance with Part 
A of the Project referred to in paragraph D of the Preamble of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(the 
Activities).
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall, and shall  cause Republic of Serbia to: (a) carry out the Activities with due 
diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the 
Grant as the Bank shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with the Bank's 
representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required 
to enable the Bank to visit the territory of the Recipient for purposes related to the Grant.  Without 
limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Bank shall so request, prepare and furnish to the 
Bank promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
on the results and impact of the Activities.
2.2.
The Recipient shall make available to the Republic of Serbia the proceeds of the Grant for 
purposes of carrying out the Activities of the Project  in accordance with a subsidiary grant agreement 
(the Subsidiary Grant Agreement) to be entered between the Recipient and the Republic of Serbia.
2.3. 
The Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant allocated for the Program 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
4.2,
4.3
and
4.5
of this Annex.
2.4.
(a)
The Recipient and the Bank shall, from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program.
(b)
Prior to such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank for its review 
and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
Page  3
(c)
Without limitations upon the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, the 
Recipient shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement 
of Item (2) of the table in paragraph 4.3 of this Annex which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action set 
forth in Attachment II to this Annex.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants
’
services required for 
the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by 
the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant, allocated for the Project, shall be credited to an account opened by the 
Bank on its books in the name of the Recipient
(the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn there from by 
the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of  services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant.
4.2
(a)
Subject to provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this paragraph, and paragraph 4.5 of 
this Annex, the Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant allocated to Item (2) of 
the table set forth in paragraph
4.3
of this Annex  from the Grant Account, in support of the Program.
(b)
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request for withdrawal 
from the Grant Account with respect to Item (2) of the table set forth in paragraph 4.3 of this Annex, and 
thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit account (the Deposit Account) in Dollars, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All withdrawals with respect to such Item (2) shall be deposited by 
the Bank into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of Grant allocated from time to time to Item 
(2) shall not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4.5 of  this 
Annex.  If at any time, the Bank shall have determined, based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank, and 
after an exchange of views with the Bank, that any of the proceeds of such Item (2) shall have been used 
to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the 
Bank shall so request, refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be credited to the Grant Account for cancellation. 
4.3.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant and 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the Grant
% of
Item
Allocated (in U.S. dollars)
Expenditures to
be Financed
(1) Consultants’ services
referred to in paragraph
1.1
(b)
of the Annex to this Grant
Page  4
Agreement
(a)
Services by individuals
90,000
84%
(b)
Services by firms
150,000
97%
(2)
Portion of the Grant in
support of the Program,
referred to in paragraph
1.1
(a)
of the Annex to this Grant
Agreement
1,760,000
TOTAL
2,000,000
4.4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph
4.3 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account for payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the Bank; and
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after June
30, 2002 or such later 
date that the Bank shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date).  However, withdrawals 
may be made after the Closing Date for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the 
corresponding withdrawal application is received by the Bank within four months after the Closing Date, 
after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be 
canceled.
4.5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph
4.3
above, and for the purposes of paragraph 4.2 of 
this Annex, the proceeds of the Grant allocated to Item (2)  of the table in paragraph 4.3 of this Annex 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
(a)
expenditures in the currency of the Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Recipient; provided, however, that if the currency of the Recipient is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such 
goods or services shall not be excluded;
(b)
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank  shall have financed or agreed to 
finance, or which the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
(c)
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under 
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
-
Alcoholic beverages
Page  5
121
-
Tobacco, unmanufactured,
tobacco refuse
122
-
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not con-
taining tobacco sub-
stitutes)
525
-
Radioactive and associated
materials
667
-
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof, fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares
(including set gems)
971
-
Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(d)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption;
(e)
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term
"environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which the Recipient is a party;
(f)
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on account of any payment to 
persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
(g)
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Recipient or of a beneficiary of the Grant 
during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Recipient having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation.
4.6.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall deliver 
Page  6
to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by the Bank.
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance of the 
Recipient or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by 
such evidence in support of the application as the Bank shall reasonably request.  Authenticated 
specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the 
first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant 
and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Bank that the 
Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used 
in the carrying out of the Activities.  The Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from 
the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.7.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of consulting firms costing less than 
US$100,000 equivalent each; and (b) services of individual consultants costing less than US$50,000 
equivalent each, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.8.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  The Bank, 
at the Recipient
’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of the 
Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such value shall be as 
reasonably determined by the Bank.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall, and shall cause Republic of Serbia to maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Activities.
(b)
The Recipient shall, and shall cause Republic of Serbia to: (i) have the records, accounts 
and financial statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after 
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and accounts and 
the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account were 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall, and shall cause Republic of Serbia 
to: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph
(b) above and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
Page  7
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
5.2.
Upon the Bank
’s request, the Recipient shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account referred to in paragraph 4.2 (b) of this Annex audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four (4) months 
after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank  shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said Deposit Account and the 
audit thereof as the Bank  shall have reasonably requested.
 
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the 
right of the Recipient or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the 
Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit 
agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended. 
6.2.
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 
6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, within six 
months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
Page  8
Attachment I
Procurement
Section I
.
Consultants
’
Services
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Introduction and 
Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers”, 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant 
Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section I.
Part B
: Quality
-
and Cost
-
based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, 
paragraph
3
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for 
services, estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
2.7
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants
’
Qualifications
Services for household survey work estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and
3.7
of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for  poverty and social policy reports under paragraph 1.1 (b) of the Annex shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs
5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph
1.
Page  9
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of US$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the 
second subparagraph of paragraph
2
(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to 
cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
2
of
this Part, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  10
Attachment II
Measures and Actions Undertaken By the Republic of Serbia
in the Context of the Program
1.
The macroeconomic policy framework of the Republic of Serbia is satisfactory.
2.
The legislative amendments adopted by the Republic of Serbia during year 2001 in the area of 
labor and social contributions and benefits legislation provide for a wider definition of labor 
compensation in taxable income. 
3.
The legislative amendments adopted by the Republic of Serbia during year 2001 in the area of 
labor legislation reduce severance payments allowances from a maximum amount equal to 24-36 
individual monthly wages, to a maximum amount equal to
2-5 individual monthly wages.
4.
A draft new labor law approved by the government of the Republic of Serbia on July 27, 2001, is 
satisfactory to the Bank.
5.
The legislative amendments adopted by the Republic of Serbia during year 2001 in the area of 
social welfare legislation delink social assistance and child allowance benefits levels from wages, and 
index to the cost of living on an interim basis.
6.
The Ministry of Social Affairs of the Republic of Serbia has issued instructions for beneficiary 
identification for one-off social welfare payments, based on uniform republic level eligibility threshold. 
