Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
June
7, 2002
H.E. Miroljub Labus
Deputy Prime Minister
Belgrade
11000
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Re:
Swedish Grant for Co-financing of the Social Protection Economic 
Assistance Grant  Number  TF
050295
Excellency:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) 
and International Development Association (IDA) (IBRD and IDA being hereinafter collectively referred 
to as the Bank) to indicate the Bank
’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the 
Government of Sweden, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding one million five hundred 
eighty-eight thousand seven hundred sixty-six United States dollars (US$1,588,766) (the Grant) to the 
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient 
represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant 
for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank of the 
copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as of 
the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/ Rory C. O’Sullivan
Country Manager
for Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
By
/s/ Miroljub Labus
Deputy Prime Minister
Date: 6/14/2002
ANNEX
Page  2
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to provide support to the following activity (the Activity):
Provision to the Recipient of balance of payment assistance in support of the Program described in the 
paragraph B of the Preamble of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement (TF050017) dated September 5, 2001 
between International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and International Development 
Association
(Acting Jointly as the Administrator of the Trust Fund for FRY) (the Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement) for the Social Protection Economic Assistance Grant, which has, inter alia, as its main 
objective to support  a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural 
adjustment of the Republic of Serbia
’s social protection and labor sectors (the Program). 
2.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
2.1.
The Recipient shall, prior to furnishing to the Bank the request for withdrawal of the Grant 
amount, open and thereafter maintain in its central bank a deposit account (the Deposit Account) in U.S. 
dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  The Bank shall thereupon transfer the entire 
Grant amount to the Deposit Account.
2.2.
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2.1, 2.3, 2.4 and 2.5 of this Section, the Recipient shall be 
entitled to use the proceeds of the Grant deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the Activity.
2.3.
The Recipient shall maintain records and accounts adequate to identify the Grant amounts 
disbursed on account of balance of payments assistance referred to in paragraph
1.1
of this Annex. 
2.4.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no request by the Recipient for transfer of the Grant 
amount in the Deposit Account shall be made later than June 30, 2003, or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish by written notice to the Recipient
(the Closing Date).
2.5.
The Recipient shall make available to the Republic of Serbia the proceeds of the Grant in 
accordance with a subsidiary grant agreement (the Subsidiary Grant Agreement) to be entered between 
the Recipient and the Republic of Serbia under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by 
the Bank.
3.
Implementation Generally
3.1.
The Recipient undertakes to utilize the remaining amount of the Grant for purposes of the 
balance of payments assistance referred to in paragraph 1.1 of this Annex, provided however, that the 
amount so utilized shall  not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of
Attachment I to this Annex. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Grant 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said 
payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the 
Bank upon such request shall be canceled.
3.2.
(a)
The Recipient and the Bank shall, from time to time, at the request of either party, 
Page  3
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program.
(b)
Prior to such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank for its review 
and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitations upon the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, the 
Recipient shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement 
of the Grant which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any 
action taken under the Program, including any action set forth in Attachment II to this Annex.
4.
Audit
4.1.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four (4) months 
from the end of each of the Recipient
’s fiscal years, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account and the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
Attachment I
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of paragraph 3.1 of this Letter Agreement, the proceeds of the Grant shall not be 
used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory 
of the Recipient; provided, however, that if the currency of the Recipient is also that of another country 
from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods 
or services shall not be excluded;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or international 
financing institution or agency other than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the 
Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under 
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the Recipient:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
Page  4
112
-
Alcoholic beverages
121
-
Tobacco, unmanufactured,
tobaccorefuse
122
-
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
-
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
-
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof; fuel
elements
(cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals
(except
watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths
’
or
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems)
971
-
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the term 
“environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited 
under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which the Recipient is a party;
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods 
procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on account of any payment to persons or 
entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
Page  5
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that corrupt or fraudulent 
practices were engaged in by representatives of the Recipient or of a beneficiary of the Grant during the 
procurement or execution of such contract, without the Recipient having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation.
Attachment II
Measures and Actions Undertaken By the Republic of Serbia
in the Context of the Program
1.
The macroeconomic policy framework of the Republic of Serbia is satisfactory.
2.
The legislative amendments adopted by the Republic of Serbia during year 2001 in the area of 
labor and social contributions and benefits legislation provide for a wider definition of labor 
compensation in taxable income. 
3.
The legislative amendments adopted by the Republic of Serbia during year 2001 in the area of 
labor legislation reduce severance payments allowances from a maximum amount equal to 24-36 
individual monthly wages, to a maximum amount equal to
2-5 individual monthly wages.
4.
A draft new labor law approved by the government of the Republic of Serbia on July 27, 2001, is 
satisfactory to the Bank.
5.
The legislative amendments adopted by the Republic of Serbia during year 2001 in the area of 
social welfare legislation delink social assistance and child allowance benefits levels from wages, and 
index to the cost of living on an interim basis.
6.
The Ministry of Social Affairs of the Republic of Serbia has issued instructions for beneficiary 
identification for one-off social welfare payments, based on uniform republic level eligibility threshold. 
