PID
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                     AWorid re, ol PrYotY
I      -     - 
InfoShop
Report No AB23
Initial Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name                ALBANIA-Intergrated Water & EcoSystems Management GEF
Region                      Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                      General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (100%)
Project ID                   P075156
Supplemental Project
Borrower(s)                 GOV'T. OF ALBANIA
Implementing Agency         PIU
Address                     World Bank Water PIU
Address Rr "Bajram Tusha", Lagja Nr 14, Durres, Albania
Contact Person Mr Genci Gjeci, Director
Tel 355 52 64184     Fax 355 52 64184      Email ggjeci@yahoo de
Environment Category        B
Date PID Prepared           April 8, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date         Junle 1, 2003
Bank Approval Date          December 2, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Albania's water infrastructure is in urgenit need of improvement, in technical short tern rehabilitationi and
in mediumi and long term technical and maniagerial improvements. Water quality could be improved
sig,nificanitly with a reliable supply of chemicals. Under existing conditions excessive water losses have
resulted from lack of maintenlance and repair and lack of metering and operationial control. Wastewater
treatment facilities do not exist in Albania and raw sewage is dischar-ged ulitreated into sea and rivers.
Several causes for these conditionis of Albania's water sector are:
*   Lack of revenues: Tariffs below the true cost of water and lack of tariff collection enforcemenit in the
last decade have significantly reduced the incomiie of the water supply companies. Water and
sanitation systenis have received virtually no maintenance in the last ten years.
*   Over consumptioni Flat rates rather thani metered consumptioni resulted in massive water waste and
also the collapse of the irrigation system has contributed to a sharp increase in water demand in the
last ten years. On top of this, a massive migration to urban centres, witlh illegal tapping and no
incentive to reduce water consumiiptioni, augmented the water sectors problems
*   Inadequacv of the physical infrastructure: Due to the lack of appropriate materials/equipment and
insufficienit consideratioln of the economiiic aspects in the design, the existing systems are expensive
to run and to maintain.
The Governmiienlt of Albania (GoA) has embarked on a water sector strategy, that involves a two-tier



2
PID
approach focusing in the short term on urgent repairs to the systems and on medium term program to
support sector reforms. Within this medium term program, the World Bank recently approved a US$ 21 9
million Municipal Water and Wastenater Project aiming at improvinig the water and sanitation services
in Albania.
Albania is characterized by the presence of veiy relevant coastal and marine ecosystems (lagoons,
hygrophilous forests, Posidonia meadows) where the biodiversity value is menaced by the presence of
urban settlemenits in the surroundings and the associated environmental impacts (in particular the
eutrophicationl of water due to the existing raw sewage outfalls). The coastal lagoon system of Albania
constitutes one of the most important wetlands of the Mediterranean Region. In particular endangered
and endemic species as the Pygmy cormorant (Phalacrocorax pygmaeus), the Mouse-ear bat (Myotis
miotis) and the Otter (Lutra lutra) live in these habitats and should be considered as flag species
Water pollution mainly associated with the flow of untreated sewage is one of most relevant threats of
these ecosystems whicih has considerably deteriorated the natural inlaid ecosystems and the biological
productivity of the coastal areas Albania lacks of any wastewater treatment facilities and existing raw
sewage oiitfalls are located either directly on the seacoast, on the bank of coastal rivers or on drainage
ditches that after a short distance discharge directly into globally significant tidal marshlands and/or the
sea This has the effect of upsetting the biological balance and also increases the subsequent
eutrophication phenomilenia of wetlands. It is also knowin that coastal water pollution with particular
reference to the untreated waste waters heavily affects Posidonia oceanica meadows and the related
communities (e.g the endangered species Pinna nobilis).
The Governmenit is committed to biodiversity conservation and the water sector is one of priorities at
national level in line with the Strategic Principles of the Albanian Biodiversity Strategy. I lowever, urban
population is growing rapidly with increased pressure on  the quality of the surrounding water
ecosystems (sea, wetlands). The Govermiienit of Albania has very limited finanicial resources to create
wastewater treatment facilities.
As a consequence of the current course of action coastal areas will likely continue to be under the
growing pollution effects of uncontrolled and increased urban wastewater which can be described as
follows.
*   endangered marine ecosystems and habitats, in medium and infralittoral level (particularly
Shengjiii-Lezha area, Porto Roinano bay and Saranda bay),
*   endangered coastal ecosystems: sand dunes, delta rivers (particularly Drini-Lezha), alluvial and wet
forests, lagoons ( Kunle and Vaini) and coastal lakes (Kenalla);
*   risks and adverse impacts on biodiversity, and some of the major adverse impacts have been
habitat loss and fragmentationi, damage (Porto Romano bav, Shengiini and Saranda bay) and
degradation (Kenalla lake) of habitats and ecosystems, loss of species or the threat of their extinction
etc.;
*   reduction of the Posidoniai oceanicn meadows populations, particularly in the Shelgjlini- Lezha
and Saranda-Ksamihi area, but also in the Porto Romanio and Lalzi bay,
*   development of some algae populations (Ulva and Enteromorpha), particularly in Saranda bay,
Shengjini bay and Porto Romano bay;
*   observation of some eutrophication in the Saranda bay, Shengjilli area and Kenalla lake,
*   probability to affect reproduction of the fish species (e g sea bass) in the marinie ecosystems of
Shengjinii bay (particularly northerin part-Rana e hedhun), in Porto Romanio and Lalzi bay and near
the Saranda and Ksamili bay, etc.



3
PID
*   negative consequenices on the eco-tourism development;
*   delay for the imiplemenitationi of the Coastal Zone Integrated Management and of the economic
development;
*   difficulties in implementing institutional strengthening measures in order to implement the
sustainabi(ity and biodiversity mainitenance policies
Regional GEF projects have focused part of their activities on the conservationi of biodiversity of
Albanian wetlands and lagoons, like in the case of the Conservation of Wetland and Coastal Ecosystems
in the Mediterranean Region Project (Karaburull, Orikurni, and Narta habitats) and the Lake Ohrid
Conservation Project. Taking into considerationi the international relevance of these habitats, other GEF
projects have been planned on other AlbaniaNetlands as on the lake Prespa, and on the Karavasta
lagoon. Very few activities have been plannied for the Albaniani marinie habitats This is probably
associated with to the scarcity of data and information on these areas, althouglh live endangered species
as the Monk seal (Monachus monaclhus) and the Sea tultle (Caretta caretta) do occur in these areas
2. Objectives
The main objective of the project is to assist the Government of Albania in improvinig the managemenit of
uncontrolled wastewater discharginig into international waters wlhich is threateninlg the global significanit
ecosystems along the coastline of Albania. The project will contribute to increase global environmental
benefits by: (i) reducing sewage pollution loads generated by urban settlement areas of the three coastal
cities Durres, Lezha and Saranda and (ii) promoting and improving the management of the tidal
Kune-Vain marshland (near Lezha).
The global environmental objective is to improve the health and habitat conditions of globally
significant marine and coastal ecosystems along the coastline of Albania in an integrated manner
by significantly reducing pollution from uncontrolled municipal wastewater generated by urban
settlements of the three coastal cities of Durres, Lezha and Saranda that are discharging into
international waters and improving the management of the tidal marshland of Kune Vain (near
Lezha).
The project will support the creation and operation of a system of constructed treatment wetlands
(CTWs) to reduce the load of nutrients (nitrogen and phosphorus) that are currently discharged in
the Adriatic seas and threaten the marine ecosystem and the habitat of endangered water flora and
fauna species of the coastal marshlands. The project will also improve the capacity of the local
institutions to monitor the water quality and the environment and improve the management of the
globally significant Kune Vain protected area.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Due to the scarcity of allocated resources as well as to the lack of active environmental pressure groups,
it is likely that biodiversity conservation will not be sufficiently promoted in the near future. Oni the
other hand the GOA has undertaken significant commitments in the environmiiienital sector througlht the
development of laws and regulations that address environmental issues.
The design of the proposed project has been tailored to support sector reforms, while responding to the
constraints in Albania. It is quite ininovative in its approach and brings into fruiltIoll the sector expertise
that the Bank has accumulated in Albania and other developing countries. In particular the Bailk has:



4
PID
*   broad internationial experience in integrated water and ecosystem maniagemenit;
*   the experience to coordinate closely with other donors and inobilize additional sources of funds, and
*   policy development expertise and experience in the design of institutional reforms in the water and
sanitation sector.
4. Description
In order to achieve its objectives the project will implement 4 components: (i) sewage pollution
reduction; (ii) environmental management and monitoring; (iii) public awareness and replication
(iv) project management, monitoring and evaluation (incremental to what financed by IDA).
The project outputs will be:
I     Sewage pollution reduction:
(i) Construction and operation of low cost wastewater treatment system in the proximity of the
cities of Durres, Lezha and Saranda;
(ii) Construction of main collectors from the existing sewage system to the CTWs and a
conventional treatment plant in Shengjini (no GEF incremental output);
(iii) Increased local capacity to manage CTWs (TA provided under IDA);
(iv) Improved efficiency of nutrient removal by at least 50% for nitrogen and 25% for
phosphorus.
2     Environmental Management and Monitoring
(i) Strengthened the capacity of the Kune Vain Managed Area Management Board and
Administration;
(ii) Finalization and adoption of the Kune Vain Managed Area Management Plan through a
participatory approach;
(iii) Implementation of selected priority measures identified by the Management Plan;
(iv) Monitoring water quality and biodiversity indicators within the protected area and in the
coastal areas that are part of the project;
(v) Increased capacity of local institutions to carry out effective monitoring activities in the
project areas, including training of rangers and public administration staff.
3     Public Awvareness and Replication'
(i) Environmental education activities targeting schools and local communities developed and
implemented and teachers trained in ecology and environmental science;
(ii) Scheme developed for stakeholder participation in the management of the Kune Vain natural
resources (as part of the Management Plan);
(iii) Awareness campaigns on need for payment of water and sanitation services developed and
delivered (under IDA);
(iv) Replication strategy developed;
(v) Project information to beneficiaries and decisions makers disseminated;
(vi) Knowledge sharing workshops in-country and in the region delivered.



5
PID
4      Project Management, MIonitoring and Evaluation
(i) Project Implementationi Unit capable to manage the project
(ii) Project progress and performance monitored and achievement recorded and used to improve
project implementation
5. Financing
Total (US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT          $0.72
IBRD
IDA
EC: EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK              $6.64
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY               $4.87
Total Project Cost          $12 23
6. Implementation
The outline of the institutional framework to be created for the management of the Kunle-Vain Lagoon
has been agreed with the Ministry of Environment (MOE) and the General Directorate of Forestry and
Pastures (GDFP). At present, responsibility for protection and administration of the area lies with the
GDFP (under the Ministry for Agriculture and Food)  The very recent approval of tIlnLaw "
Protected Areal (n08906, 06/06/2002) opens up opportullities  for an advanced and integrated
management of protected areas, Kune-Vain lagoon included. The Ministry of Environmienit has drafted a
decree in the fiamework of the above mentioned law that would transfer all "Hunting Reserves",
including Kune-Vain, into "Managed Reserves".  The objective of the Kunle-Valli Managed Area
(KVMA) is conservation and sustainable management of the Kune-Vain wetlanid and the Kenalla lake,
with the goal of integratinlg the conservationi of the importanit bird habitats with the sustainable
maniagemiient of regional tourism and area's natural resources, through an innovative managemenit system.
It is expected that the MOE will present the above menitioned decree to the Council of Ministers (CM) by
February 25, 2003 and CM approval is expected by March 14, 2003.
A second decree under the law "On Protected Areas", whichi is expected to be approved by the CM by
March 14, 2003 together with the decree mentioned above, will set the framework for creating an
adminiistrative entity for each "Managed Reserve". This decree would allow the MOE and GDFP to
establish a new administration and managemeent board for Kune-Vain.  This Board will include
representatives  froin  key  ministries, the  Districts  with  territory  withiin the  Area, the
Municipalities/Cominmunies and a formal representation of the users of the KVMA  The KVMA Board
will be accountable for planniniig the managemenit of KVMA and for establishinig regulationis on the use
of natural resources. The area will be separated into different zones with allowable activities defined for
each zone. The Management Board will act as a committee responsible for the selection of the most
suitable Management Plan. The Management Board will receive TA under the project to prepare the
Managemenit Plan  The board will also coordinate definition of tasks, rules, planiniig processes and
operational procedures.
It is proposed that the administrative entity for the KVMA be established under the budget of the General
Directorate of Forestry and Pasture  The responsibilities of the KVMA Administration will be to
introduce the new participatory protected area planniniig approach to the site, to build capacity witlinl
local user groups and other stakeholders to implement protect activities, and to undertake monitoring and



6
PID
regulatory functions  These responsibilities xvill be identified In the Management Plan which will be
prepared under the Project.
Consultations are at present in progress between the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry for
Agriculture and Food in order to define and agree on joint rules and procedures for the Administration of
Protected Areas in Albania. Also unlder discussioni between the MoE and the General Director-ate of
Forest and Pasture is the possibility to immediately stop the huntinig in the area of Kunle-Vain
The overall coordination of the GEF funded Integrated Water and Ecosystem Managemenit componient
will be carried out by the Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism in close cooperation lwith the
Ministry of Environmenit and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food The management of this component
will be entrusted to the existing Water PIU under the Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism  In
order to cover the non-engineering aspects of this project, the PIU will be strengthenedl by recruiting a
biologist/environmental enginieer. The existing Water PIU will be responsible also for the financial
management and the procuremellt Linder the project.
The GEF grant will be forwarded by the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Territorial Adjustmiienit
and Tourismii The works and goods procured under this component will be handed over to tK:>enieral
Directorate of Forestry & Pastures (GDFP), the General Directorate of Fisheries (GDF)and the Ministry
of Environment for ecosystem maniagement and moniitoring, and for the CTWs to the water utilities
The General Directorate of Forestry & Pastures (GDFP) and General Directorate of Fisheries (GDF)will
provide the Bank with annual monitoring and evaluation reports regarding the achievements unlder this
component. In addition the operator of the CTWs will conduct self-monitoring of the CTWs.
7. Sustainability
The project will achieve sustainability by promoting an integrated appraoch to management of
wastewaters and natural resources. The main purpose is to optimize the ecological, economic and
social benefits of the proposed interventions to better preseve the coastal and marine ecosystems.
Environmental sustainability will be achieved by physically reducing the discharges of nutrient
into the coastal lagoon system and sea, improving the monitoring of the ecosystem health (water
quality and biodiversity status), and implementing a management plan for the Kune Vain
protected area. Institutional sustainability will be achieved by working at local level with a wide
range of stakeholders, building capacity of the water utilities to manage the constructed wetlands,
strengthening the capacity of the local water quality monitoring institutions and the staff of the
Kune Vain protected areas as well as working with the local commumties, farmers, and user
groups. Financial and economic sustainability will be achieved by introducing a private sector
based management approach to water and wastewater utilities, government financial support to
protected areas as foreseen by the new legislation and by exploring other economic instruments
for management of the Kune Vain protected areas. The project builds on several ongoing
government programs and donor-supported projects that will help sustain the project activities.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Project design reflects the Bank's experience in the preparation and implementation of xvater and
ecosystem managemiienit progranms in Europe and aroulld the world. Some of the critical lessons learned
and applied in this Project's preparation recommend that.



7
PID
*   The early involvement In project concept design of key stakeholders from  across the water,
agriculture and environimienit sector as well as of local communities is essential in order to ensure
oxvnersilip, build lasting commitmenit and achieve successful project implementationi. A participatory
approach has been implemenited througih a process of consultationi that has represented an innovative
avenue to arrive to commoll uliderstanlding of the issues related to wastewater management and
environmental protection  This approach has, in turn, broadened the public consenisus and helped in
selecting the most socially/politically/enivironimienitally acceptable sites for the construction of the
wetlanids in the three cities as well as promoting dialogue xvithlin the autIlorities for the management
of the natural protected areas
*   The rationale, benefits and objectives of the project should be made known to all stakeholders
through effective public awareness programs. The benefits of sustainable wastewater treatment need
to be demonistrated and the results widely disseminated
*   Maintaining support from central government workinig with the Ministry of Territorial Adjustment
and Tourism, Ministry of Environimenit and Ministry of Agriculture and Food, but emphasizinig
decentralized responsibility for finanlcial and local project management (for both CTWs and
Kune-Vaini Managed Area) helps to build local owniership and sustainability of project activities
*   The project needs to focus on activities which promote replication, sustainability and resource
mobilization beyond the life of the project. The replication of the project will be highlly encouraged
extending the analysis to other potential sites suitable for wetlands constructionl, to reduce
wastewater effluent problems. The project will help to promote and eventually expand the use of
CTWs In areas where existing pollution loads are threateninig ecosystems critical for biodiversity
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues  : The project will finanice the constructioni of low cost ecologically based wastewater
treatment techinologies, with the major environmenital objective to reduce the amount of nutrienits
discharged into the Adriatic sea; making the project environimiientally beneficial. The project will address
global benefits by reducing pollution in coastal areas and protecting the marine ecosystem from
destruction.
Apart from earth embanikmenits for the constructed treatment wetlands and earth dykes planned to protect
the CTW from the floods, no new physical structures of significant size will be built and no major
adverse environmental impacts are expected. Nonethieless, potential negative environmental impacts are
expected to be localized or able to be mitigated. Given the nature of the CTW's work, the project has
been classified as Environimiienital Category "B" In accordance withi the Bank policy on Environimental
Assessment, the Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism in collaboration withi the Ministry of
Environment is currently carrying out the Environmental Impact Assessment of the project A
combination of quantitative and qualitative assessment techniques (ranging fiom desk-based analysis, to
water and social survey ) have been undertaken. The EA will reflect the environmenital guldelinies and
standards of IDA since sucIh standard are not enacted yet in Albania. A detailed legislation and guidelinie
for Environmenital Impact Assessment Is uLider discussioll in the Parliament, and is expected to be
approved by next year. The EIA will describe existing environmenital conditions at the three project sites
(including climate, hydrology, soil and water quality, groulidwater and biodiversity) and assess the
potential impacts on these conditionis from implementation of the project, durinig the construction and
operation phases.
An Environmenltal Managemenlt Plan (EMP) will be prepared to identify mitigationi measures and
monitoring activities that will address potential impacts and therefore provide an adequate safeguard for
environiment. The EIA will analyze whethier the proposed activities are in compliance with the
environimilenital requirements of both the Governmient of Albania and the Bank with the respect to
restoration developments of this nature.



8
PID
The project is promoting a participatory approacil through a process of consultationi that will represent an
innovative avenue to arrive at a common understanidinlg of the issues related to xvastewater management
and environimental protection This approach will, in turin, broaden the public consensus and help
selecting the most socially/politically/environimilentally acceptable site for the constructioni of the wetland
in the three cities as well as promoting dialogue withinl the Management Board for the management of the
natural protected areas. Building consensus over these Issues ultimately will broaden constituencies
support for the water sector reform program currently put in concrete forimi in the National Water Supply
and Sanitationi Strategy of the Albanian Governmeit. By increasinig public awareness on the issue of
environmental protection and ecosystem management, the consultationis will make a major contribution
to improve environmental governance in Albania Three separate consultations - structured in two
phases - have been held under the auspices of the mullicipalities of Saranda, Lezha and Durres, organized
around the followving iines 1) promoting the use of man made wetlands for wastewater treatmenit; 2)
promoting a dialogue among public institutions and an effective collaborative decision making within the
framework of the proposed Managemilenit Board for the managemenit of the natural protected areas of
Lezha; 3) identifying in a partecipatory maniner the main issues of concerin and possible areas of
improvements. Participants in the first phase incLided: a) local autIlorities (Inspectors of the Ministry of
Environmenit, General Directorate of Forestry and Pasture, Municipal Representatives, Water Utilities)
and Albanian experts; b) local communities affected by the project; c) local NGOs and environimilental
specialists. Participants in the second phase include the self-selected representatives from the three
groups and the four level of decision making: I)CouL1cil of Territorial Adjustment, 2) Ministry of
Environimienit, 3) Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism, 4) local municipal authorities.
Furthiermore, during the implemilentation of the project, a consultation process will be established to
promote dialogue and bulild consensus between the Managemenit Board of the natural protected areas of
Lezha and all the other involved stakeholders for the preparation and selection of the most suitable
Management Plan for the natural protected areas of Lezha
10. List of factual technical documents:
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Andreas Rohde
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone (202) 473-6672
Fax: (202) 614 0902
12 For information on other project related documents contact
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D C 20433
Telephone (202) 458-5454
Fax    (202) 522-1500
Web http 11 www worldbank org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily



9
PID
included in the final project.
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Processed by the InfoShop week ending  03/25/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
,- I   CN  S F__J FEEO8ACK '  --   M           SHOWCA-E ____ >   m



