E721
Revised
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
Ministry of Territory Adjustment and Tourism
INTEGRATED WATER AND ECOSYSTEMS
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
SEPTEMBER, 2003



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.       INTRODUCTION                                                                               1
II.      BACKGROUND AND EIA OVERVIEW                                                                3
Il.1. GLOBAL SIGNIFICANCE OF THE PROJECT AREA                                                    3
11.2. LOCATION OF PROJECT AREAS                                                                   4
I1.3. LEGISLATIVE AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK I
II.4. EIA OVERVIEW                                                                               6
11.4.1.   Summary of the steps undertaken for environmental impact assessment                  6
11.4.2.   EMP main features                                                                    9
III.     ANALYSIS OF CURRENT SITUATION. FORECAST AND ASSESSMENT OF
EXPECTED IMPACT OF THE PROJECT ON ENVIRONMENTAL
COMPONENTS                                                                                11
Ill.1. INFRASTRUCTURE                                                                           11
111.1.1.  Existing sanitation infrastructures                                                 I1
111.1.2.  Water demand and Wastewater return in the project areas                             12
111.1.3.  Wastewater Treatment Proposed Facilities                                            12
III 13 1.    Duress area                                                                    13
111 13 2     Lezhe/Shengjin areas                                                           13
111 1 3 3.   Saranda area                                                                   13
111.1.4.  Forecast of Expected Impact                                                         14
II1.2. CLIMATE                                                                                   14
111.2.1.  Air Temperature                                                                     14
111.2.2.  Rainfall                                                                            15
111.2.3.  Sources of atmospheric pollution and their potential impact on the project area.    15
111.2.4.  Possible project implementation results                                             16
1.3. SURFACE WATER AND GROUND WATER                                                             17
111.3.1.  The Albanian marine ecosystem                                                       17
1113.1 1     Porto Romano and Rrushkull-Erzeni River outlet (Durres area)                   17
III 3 1 2    Dnni outlet (Lezhe-Shengin area)                                               18
111.3 1 3.   Saranda bay and Ksamili bay (Saranda area)                                     18
111.3 1 4    Kune-Vain wetland and Kenalla Lake                                             19
1113 1 5.    Butrinti lake and related Wetland environment                                  19
111.3.2.  Water quality and pollution loads                                                   19
111.3.3.  Water analysis and data evaluation                                                  20
Environmental Assessment
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



111.3.4.  Pollution effects                                                                   21
111 3 4 1.   Rivers (Drint River and Cuka cannel)                                           21
1113 4 2     Marine area                                                                    22
III 3 4 3    Forecast expected impact on rivers and manne ecosystems                        24
111.4. WASTES                                                                                   25
111.5. LANDS, SOILS AND HYDROGEOLOGY                                                            26
111.5.1.  Lezha and Shengjin areas                                                            26
III 5 1 1    Geology                                                                        26
III 5 1 2    Hydrogeology                                                                   26
III 5 1 3   Topsoil description                                                             28
111.5.2.  Durres                                                                              28
111.5 2.1    Geology                                                                        29
III 5 2 2    Hydrogeology                                                                   30
1115 2.3     Topsoil description                                                            31
111.5.3.  Saranda                                                                             31
1115 31     Geology                                                                         31
1115 3 2     Hydrogeology                                                                   32
111.5.4.  Risk factors on soil and hydrogeology                                               32
111.6. FLORA AND FAUNA                                                                          32
111.6.1.  Description of habitats and species                                                 32
III 6 II     Kune-Vaini Natural Managed Reserve                                             32
111 6 1 2    Rrushkulli-Erzeni River Outlet                                                 34
III 6 1 3    Butrinti lake and related Wetland environment                                  35
111.6.2.  Characteristics of the situation of threatened species                              38
111.6.3.  Risk factors on flora and fauna                                                     39
111.7. CULTURAL PROPERTY                                                                        40
111.8. HEALTH RISK                                                                              40
111.8.1.  Mosquitoes and their Consequences                                                   40
111.8.2.  Odours risk                                                                         41
111.8.3.  Health Risk for the Livestock                                                       41
111.8.4.  Health risk factors during the building process                                     41
IV.      ANALYSIS OF THE ALTERNATIVES WITH REGARD TO THEIR EFFECT
ON THE ENVIRONMENT, ANALYSIS OF THE "NO PROJECT"
ALTERNATIVE INCLUDED.                                                                     42
IV.I. ZERO ALTERNATIVE                                                                          42
IV.2. CTW ALTERNATIVES TECHNOLOGIES                                                             43
IV.3. CTW ALTERNATIVES LOCATIONS                                                                44
Environmental Assessment                                                                         ii
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
IV.4. PROJECT ALTERNATIVES SELECTION                                        45
IV.5. MEASURES FOR WWTP CONSTRUCTION                                         46
V.     MONITORING PROPOSAL                                                     47
V.1. AIR                                                                     47
V.2. WATER                                                                   47
V.3. EFFLUENT WATER QUALITY                                                  48
V.4. FLORA AND FAUNA                                                         49
V.5. MONITORING RESPONSIBILITIES                                             49
VI.    CONCLUSIONS       REGARDING       THE     ENVIRONMENTAL        IMPACT
ASSESSMENT                                                              50
VII.   EIA CONCLUSION                                                          55
VIII.  PUBLIC STAKEHOLDERS CONSULTATION                                        55
VIII.1. ORGANIZATION OF THE PUBLIC CONSULTATION PROCESS                      55
VIII.2. CONCLUSION                                                           55
VIII.3. DESIGN IMPROVEMENT                                                   56
Environmental Assessment
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
TABLE OF FIGURES
LIST OF FIGURES
Fig. 1      Albania-Projects areas
Fig.2       Geological map of Lezhe area
Fig.3        Hydrogeological map of Lezhe area
Fig.4       Hydrogeological cross-section in Lezhe plain
Fig.5       Hotspots and heavy polluted areas around Durres city
Fig.6        Geological map of Durres area
Fig.7       Hydrogeological map of Durres area
Fig.8        Hydrogeological cross-section in Durres plain
Fig.9        Constructed Treatment Wetland alternative locations in Durres area
Fig. 10      Constructed Treatment Wetland alternative locations in Lezhe area
Fig. 11      Constructed Treatment Wetland alternative locations in Saranda area
LIST OF ANNEX
Annex 1      List of the Fauna in the Project area
Annex 2      List of Endangered Species observed in the Project areas
Annex 3     Environmental and Socio-Economic Quality Index for the proposed WWTP Al-
ternative locations
Annex 4     Final Report Public Consultation Process
Annex 5      MoE Strengthening monitoring and enforcement capacity programme
Annex 6     CTW's Operation & Maintenace outline is attached.
Environmental Assessment                                                        Iv
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
I.    INTRODUCTION
The Government of Albania has received a GEF/World Bank project preparation grant for the
preparation of Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project. The project entails the de-
sign, operation, maintenance and administration of low cost wastewater treatment system aimed
to reduce the sewage pollution load from the four cities of Durres, Saranda and Lezhe/Shengjin
and protect and restore endangered coastal and marine habitats. The project will promote the use
of Constructed Treatment Wetlands (CTW) for the treatment of wastewater flows in areas where
existing pollution loads are threatening aquatic system with high biodiversity values. During the
preparation phase. the Ministry of Territory Adjustment and Tourism has conducted: (i) Techni-
cal Assessment and (ii) Final Design study of the Constructed Treatment Wetlands for the
coastal cities of Durres, Saranda and Lezhe/Shengjin. The studies conducted at the present time
are at the Feasibility level, the Consultant is going to start the Final Design study expect to com-
plete it within February 2004. The present Environmental Impact Assessment study was per-
formed on the basis of the above-mentioned studies. It identifies positive and negative environ-
mental impacts of alternative options; recommends the most acceptable option for each project
site; suggests improvements and mitigation and monitoring measures.
Project justification and scope
Albania's water infrastructure is in urgent need of improvement, both in technical short term re-
habilitation as in medium and long term technical and managerial improvements. Water quality
could be improved significantly with a reliable supply of chemicals. Lack of maintenance and
repair and lack of metering and operational control have resulted in excessive water losses. Ag-
gevating this situation is the fact that wastewater treatment facilities do not exist in Albania and
raw sewage is discharged untreated into sea and rivers.
Several causes for these conditions of Albania's water sector are:
*  Lack of revenues: Tariffs below the true cost of water and lack of tariff collection enforce-
ment in the last decade have significantly reduced the income of the water supply compa-
nies. Water and sanitation systems have received virtually no maintenance in the last ten
years.
*  Over consumption: Flat rates rather than metered consumption resulted in massive water
waste and also the collapse of the irrigation system has contributed to a sharp increase in
water demand in the last ten years. On top of this, a massive migration to urban centers, with
illegal tapping and no incentive to reduce water consumption, augmented the water sectors
problems.
*  Inadequacy of the physical infrastructure: Due to the lack of appropriate materials/equipment
and insufficient consideration of the economic aspects in the design, the existing systems are
expensive to run and to maintain.
The Government of Albania (GoA) has embarked on a water sector strategy that involves a two-
tier approach focusing on the short term on urgent repairs to the systems and on the medium term
on a program to support sector reforms. Within this medium term program, the Municipal Water
and Wastewater Project (MWWP) (IDAP075 156) was formulated, aiming on improving the wa-
ter and sanitation services in Albania, thus contributing to the economic development of the
country in an environmental sound way.
The MWWP aims to achieve this objective by assisting the Government of Albania (GoA) in
testing and developing the following important components of the water sector reform:
Environmental Assessment
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
1. First time application of a management contract in Albania's water sector;
2. Piloting the GoA's adopted Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy;
3. Integrate wastewater management into an overall ecosystem management to protect globally
important biodiversity.
This EIA report refers to activities under the third component of the water sector reform.
Integration of wastewater management into an overall ecosystem management to protect globally
important biodiversity will be achieved by promoting the use of CTW's in areas where existing
pollution loads are threatening critical aquatic ecosystems.
Degradation of the quality of the Adriatic Sea, caused mainly by pollution from land-based ac-
tivities is a very serious problem. The coastal cities of Durres, Lezhe, Saranda and Shengjin do
not have any wastewater treatment facilities at present, No conventional wastewater treatment is
foreseen in the short- or medium term due to the problematic financial situation of the GoA in
general and the water supply companies in particular. The proposed project aims to capture
global benefits by reducing land-based pollution from the four cities and protect, restore and
enlarge endangered coastal and marine habitats by introducing low cost ecologically-based
wastewater treatment.
In brief, the project will:
* Reduce sewage pollution load generated by the four cities of Durres, Lezhe, Shengjin and
Saranda;
* Develop and establish environmentally-beneficial low cost water treatment technologies us-
ing constructed treatment wetlands (CTW);
* Develop and establish management of protected areas regimes;
* Develop a strategy for dissemination and replication of project achievements.
Delay of the project implies that significant marine environments, coastal areas and lagoons
would be seriously affected and it would be very difficult and costly to restore.
As such the baseline of the project implies:
* Continue discharge of raw untreated wastewater into sea and river;
* Further deterioration of the local environment also affecting globally important natural habi-
tats;
* No conventional wastewater treatment is foreseen in the short term due to the problematic fi-
nancial situation of the GoA in general and the water supply companies in particular.
The scope of this project includes the four coastal cities of Durres, Lezhe, Shengjin and Saranda
with a total present population of 204,000 inhabitants.
Environmental Assessment                                                        2
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
II. BACKGROUND AND EIA OVERVIEW
11.1. GLOBAL SIGNIFICANCE OF THE PROJECT AREA
"The project aims at reducing the degradation of globally significance areas, which are presently
threatened by pollution land-based pollution sources." The areas that will benefit from the pro-
ject are:
* Lezhe/Shengjin (Kune-Vaini lagoon): The area is included in the network of Protected Areas
under the status of Nature Managed Reserve. It has been also identified as Important Bird
Area (IBA) registering up to 17,000 wintering water birds. The area shelters numerous
Globally Threatened Species such as angered species living in the proposed Managed Na-
ture Reserve are: (i) the Globally Threatened Phalacrocorax pygmaeus (Pygmy cormorant);
(ii) the Globally Threatened Aythya nyroca (Ferruginous duck), Myotis myotis (Mouse-ear
bat); (iii) Hyla arborea (Tree frog); (iv) Lutra lutra (Eurasian river otter);
* Durres (Rrushkull lagoon): The area has been identified as Important Bird Area (IBA) for
over 10,000 wintering waterbirds;
* Saranda Bay and Butrinti lake: Butrint is a Ramsar site for Albania. Its inclusion in the list
of Ramsar sites (wetlands of intemational importance) is based on its outstanding biodiver-
sity values. 33 Globally Threatened species of animals do occur in the area. Among them is
worth mentioning the presence of Caretta caretta (Leatherback), Emys orbicularis (European
pond Terrapin), Haliaetus albicilla (White-tailed Eagle), Rhinolophus euryale (Mediterra-
nean Horseshoe Bat), Myotis capaccinii (Long-fingered Bat), Myotis emarginatus (Geof-
froy's Bat), Monachus monachus (Mediterranean Monk Seal) etc. The area is also identified
as an Important Bird Area for Albania registering up to 14,000 wintering waterbirds. The
southern part of the complex has been declared in 1992 a UNESCO World Heritage Site. In
1999 the World Heritage Site has been enlarged to incorporate an area of 2900 ha. This
enlargement was complimented by the establishment of the Butrint National Park (Year
2000).
Furthermore, these areas, already affected by pollution problems, represent the territories for fur-
ther residential settlement, agricultural activities and mainly potential touristy development.
These are factors to be taken into account in the project analysis and altematives set up and se-
lections, mainly concerning the impact on the environment.
In particular, Durres area is progressively affected by a noticeable urban settlement, which is
experienced by an uncontrolled expansion. Former use of the plain had a prevailing agricultural
destination and a regular network of surface natural canals was built in order to allow surface
run-off to drain into a central main channel. This channel finally discharges at sea by means of a
hydrovore, to keep the plain dried during and after important rainfalls, due to the presence of a
surface aquifer.
The central open channel is now the final receptor of all sewage waters of the Durres District,
whose discharge at sea can provoke pollution effects and damages to the marine environment in
the area of Porto Romano.
The plain is limited eastward by the Erzeni River, westward by the system of coastal hills and
northward by the rather complex system of coastal wetlands and dunes of the Lalzi bay. All natu-
ral district is threatened by the direct and indirect impacts provoked on all environmental com-
ponents by the advancing spreading of the uncontrolled urban settlement.
Environmental Assessment                                                        3
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
The western side of the plain is characterized by the older urban as well as industrial settlement,
now completely idle, but land and surface aquifer contamination represent major problems not
yet solved.
In the middle part of the plain embankments of an old fishing pond still remain, which represent
a physical constraint to the chaotic expansion of the urban settlement.
Being not the settlement advances suitably planned , the required infrastructures in terms of
roads, energy and water supply, sewage water collection, etc are completely lacking, which im-
plies a strong impact on soil, surface and underlying waters and a threat to the natural resources
of the marine as well as wetland ecosystems.
Saranda bay represents the most attractive coastal area of Albania, where eco-tourism potential
is higher and strategies of sustainable development can be profitably implemented in the short
and medium term, with an interesting return for the local economics.
Coastal Zone Integrated Management (CZIM) of Saranda District, extending to Butrinti Lake,
Bistrica Spring and hydrographic catchments and existing wetlands, can be put forward and im-
plemented only if sanitation problems and waste water treatment and protection of the natural
and marine environment are accomplished.
As a consequence an action plan combining main sewage water trunk line (covered by PHARE
Funds) with a wastewater treatment by naturalistic processes is highly envisaged, to preserve the
marine environment from existing pollution effects.
Lagoon of Kune-Vaini is an important Protected Area, of great naturalistic value. City of
Lezhe and Shengjin, the intensive agricultural activity developed in the alluvional area as well
as the progressive population increase and future settlements, represent potential threats to the
natural equilibrium and to the biodiversity preservation of the aquatic ecosystems.
Indeed, the sewage waters of Lezhe directly discharge into the surface waters of the Drini River,
whose spreading at sea can affect the environmental conditions of all the coastal zone surround-
ing the river mouth, and consequently the lagoon. Direct effects of contamination of the lagoon
waters can also occur by surface run-off of the agricultural fields and a hydrovore, installed to
keep the fields dried after rainfall events, can increase the contaminant's flow. As a consequence
the eutrophication process can arise sometime in the lagoon waters.
It is also necessary to mention the naturalistic site of Kanalla Lake, being a natural spring of
karstic waters existing at the toe of the hills, within the lagoon. This a typical transitional water
body, highly polluted for the direct discharge of sewage waters coming from the village of
Shengjin.
11.2. LOCATION OF PROJECT AREAS
The project area total present population is of 204,000 inhabitants, with an evolution to the hori-
zon year 2020 of 352,000 inhabitants.
Environmental Assessment                                                        4
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Tab. II. I -Project area-population forecast
Project area Population
Sites
Year 2002      Year 2022
Durres           150,000      250,000
Lehze            18,000        30,000
Shenglin          6,000        12,000
Saranda          30,000        60,000
Total           204,000       352,000
Durres District covers a surface of 433 km2 and the average altitude is 2 m. Durres city has be-
come the main gate connecting Albania to the world, due to its favourable geographical position,
as well as to the large circulation of people, goods, means, cultures and opinions. The project
area includes Durres city and the rural area in the northeast-and northwest of Durres. The rural
area as a part of the former marshland of Durres includes Bisht Kamez, Rrashbull, Arapaj, Shen
Vlash, Shkallnur villages. Thanks to favourable geographical position and natural resources (the
sea, the plains along the rivers Erzen and Ishmi, the surrounding hills from the north to the east,
the mild Mediterranean climate etc.), the District of Durres is inhabited all over its surface estab-
lishing in such a way a large populated center. The settlement population rate has been subject
to several factors like: social order, economic development, geographical and rural conditions,
and migratory movements etc., which are in interaction and mutual dependence among them.
In the 1991, Lezhe District counted almost 68.200 inhabitants, meaning about 3,8 times as big
of the population of the 1926. Lezhe town has had the superior increase of the population during
the last century. In the 1938 it had only 750 inhabitants. In the residential centers that are subject
of this project, has been noticed the following course of changes. The favorable geographical
position on the seaside plain, almost equidistant to Tirana (capital city) and Shkoder (administra-
tive center of North Albania), the presence of the fertile fields and of the sea, the suitable natural
conditions and the potential prospect for development of the agriculture, tourism, commerce,
building industry etc. have attracted the attention of many people wishing to reside in Lezhe Dis-
trict. Particularly interesting are the suburbs of Lezhe city, the coastline of Shengjin and the plain
area. During the last decade the population of the project area is increased 2.7 times
Saranda district is situated on the southern edge of Albania. On the southwest it is bordered
with Ionian Sea, on the southeast with Greece, on the north it shares border with Delvina and
Permet districts, and on the west with Vlora district. The mountains and hills occupy the main
territory, while the field of Vurgu (southern part of Delvina graben) is the main field relief. From
the point of view of the international tourism, Saranda District and in particular the city area can
take advantage from the vicinity and easy sea-connections with the Corfu Island. Tourism can be
attracted by extending the offer from the typical summer sea-sun tourism, to a more de-seasonal
eco-tourism, by involving the Butrinti lake, Bistrica springs and the archeological historical sites.
11.3. LEGISLATIVE AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
The legal provisions regulating matters related to the management and structure of the territory
are set out in the Constitution and laws of the Republic of Albania.
Environmental Assessment                                                        5
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
The Constitution of the Republic of Albania sets forth the general principles and obligation
related to the environmental protection and conservation; maintenance of the ecological balance
nature; and reasonable use of the country's natural resources.
Natural wetland
The overall responsibility for managing and monitoring the natural wetlands and coastal areas
lies with the Ministry of Environment (MoE), according the new "Protected Area Law" (n08906
dated 6/6/2002), and "Protection of Marine Environment from Pollution" (n°8905 dated
6/672002). The new "Environment Law" has been already approved by GoA Parliament and is
under the approval by GoA President.
Wastewater disposal and treatment
The Government of Albania is undertaking an ambitious program of economic reforms,
promoting a public-private partnership in key infrastructures, mainly in the water sector. The
reform will lead to the establishment of a pro-private sector participation (PSP) regulatory and
policy framework at the state and municipal level and the introduction of a PSP regime
beneficial for the poor through the use of a Management Contract (MC). The project also aims at
integrating wastewater management. Four major metropolitan areas, Durres, Saranda, Fier anf
Lezhe, are involved in the reform process.
The international tender for the awarding of the Management Contract has been held on last
April 2002 "Management Contract for the provision of water and wastewater services in Dur-
res, Fier, Lezhe, and Saranda ". The MC has been awarded on June 6, 2003, and the Firm has
commenced the assignment on August 4, 2003. The management capability of the CTW is as-
sured with:
*   The training component to be delivered for engineers and management of the water supply
companies;
*   The MWWP includes the use of management contracts, handing over operation responsibil-
ity of the water company, to a private operator. Maintenance and operation of the CTW
should be explicitly included in the contract with the private operator;
*   An CTW Environmental Management Plan (EMP) will be prepared under responsibility of
the MoE, including a comprehensive monitoring program for potential dangers to the eco-
system- A training program for engineers from the Ministry of Environment is foreseen in
the GEF Project budget
Institutional Water Quality Monitoring
The monitoring of effluent quality and compliance with Albanian Standards are the responsibil-
ity of MoE. At present, no detailed legislation on specific standards for domestic sewage dis-
charges into surface waters has been enacted yet in Albania, but a "Wastewater Quality Law" is
under discussion on Parliament. Therefore only international regulations and limits for the typi-
cal wastewater concentrations to be attained can be taken into account for comparisons..
1.4. EIA OVERVIEW
11.4.1. SUMMARY OF THE STEPS UNDERTAKEN FOR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
The project will finance the construction low cost ecologically based wastewater treatment tech-
nologies, with the major environmental objective to reduce the amount of nutrients flowing into
Enviromnental Assessment                                                      6
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
the Adriatic sea; making the project environmentally beneficial. The project will address global
benefits by reducing pollution at the beach and protecting the marine ecosystem from destruc-
tion.
Apart from earth embankments planned to realize open channel to store the untreated wastewater
and earth dykes planned to protect the CTW from the floods, no new physical structures of sig-
nificant size will be built and no major adverse environmental impacts are expected.
Nonetheless, potential negative environmental impact are expected to be localized or able to be
mitigated.
Given the nature of the CTW's work, the project has been classified as Environmental Category
"B".
For category B projects covered by IDA funding, a separate Environmental Impact Assessment
is required (EIA). Prior the CTW Final design preparation the EIA was carried out and handled
by Ministry of Territory Adjustment and Tourism, and then submitted for approval by the MoE.
A combination of quantitative and qualitative assessment techniques (ranging from desk-based
analysis, to water and social survey) have been use. The EIA reflects the environmential guide-
lines and standards of IDAThe Environmental Management Plan (EMP) identifies a number of
mitigation and monitoring activities which will address these potential impacts and therefore
provides an adequate safeguard for environment. The EIA concluded that, provided mitigation
measures described in the EMP are followed, the proposed activities are in compliance with the
environmental requirements of both the Government of Albania and the World Bank with the re-
spect to restoration developments of this nature.
The EIA describes existing environmental conditions at the four project sites (including climate,
hydrology, soil and water quality, groundwater and biodiversity) and assesses the potential im-
pacts on these conditions from implementation of the project, during the construction and opera-
tion phases.
Alternatives proposed by the Consultant: (i) No project, (ii) Alternative technologies, (iii)
WWTP locations
(i)-No Project: The zero alternative OF NO PROJECT will increase the risks of public health
degradation; decrease of high biodiversity values, and decline of local economy. The no-
construction alternative was found to be nonviable from the health risk and environmental point
of view.
ii)-Low cost Wastewater treatment technologies: A brief analysis was conducted of several tech-
nical alternative to realize the construction of a low cost ecologically based wastewater treatment
system. The following "natural" treatment solution has been evaluated and compared: Free Wa-
ter Surface type (FWS), Subsurface Flow type (SFS).
According the results of the environmental multicriteria analysis, including the results of the
stakeholder consultation, the Free Water Surface type (FWS), has been selected for all the
coastal cities included in the project.
(iii)- WWTP Locations: A multicriterial analysis was conducted of several alternatives to the pro-
posed WWTP locations for the four project areas.
Two alternatives for WWTP's locations were assessed for Durres area, both located in the
Durres former marshland:
* #1, Located in the former large fish ponds plant;
Enviromnental Assessment                                                        7
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
* #2, Located in the Porta Romana area close to the sea shore of Lalzit bay, at 8 km from the
new urbanization area of Durres.
The EIA supports the idea to locate the WWTP for the Durres area in the former fish ponds , as
provided in Alternative 1. The selected land is State Property and not in use.
The main critical factor influencing the alternative identification for Lezhe and Shengjn areas
were the lack of available land. In particular the implementation of the WWTP in Shengjin area
appears very contradictory taking into consideration the lack of availability of suitable land.
For this reason the Shengjin wastewater will be treated in the WWTP of Lezhe.
Four alternatives for WWTP's locations were assessed for Lezhe/Shengjin area.
*  #1, Located in "Ishulli I Sengjinit" near the Merxhani Lagoon. The area is free from civil set-
tlements and moreover the agriculture activity is not exploited, due to the high salinity con-
tent of the soil;
*  #2, Located in "Ishulli I Sengjinit" on the right left of the active channel of Drinit river, be-
tween the new Tirana/Lezhe road under construction and Drinit out-let in the sea;
*  #3, Located in "Ishulli I Lezhes" downstream of the Lezhe town on the left of the active
channel of Drinit river;
* #4, Located in "Ishulli I Sengjinit" near the Merxhani Lagoon. The area is free from civil
settlements and moreover the agriculture activity is not exploited, due to the periodic flood-
ing.
The EIA supports the idea to locate the Lezhe/Shengjin CTW , as is provided for in Alternative
4. The selected land is State Property and not in use.
Four main alternatives for Saranda CTW's locations have been identified:
*  #1, Located on the right bank of Cuka Channel, between the river bed and Cuka town;
*  #2, Located on the left bank of the Cuka Channel, between the river and the existing protec-
tion dike;
*  #3, Located on the left bank of the Cuka beyond the existing river protection dike.;
*  #4, Located on the left bank of the Cuka beyond the existing river protection dike, half way
between Cuka Canal and Butrinti Lake.
The EIA support the idea to locate the CTW in the Saranda area, as provided in Alternative 4,
taking into account the relevance of the health and environmental context (in the Ionian sea, be-
tween Corfu and Saranda cost, lives a small population of monk seal, an endangered species).
The selected land is State Property and not in use.
The EIA indentified the following potential negative impacts of the project: (i) there is a health
risk associated with the potential increase in mosquito population, (ii) there is a a social risk as-
sociated to odors emanating from wetlands when water begin to stagnate, (iii) inappropriate dis-
posal of excavated materials, construction debris and small quantities of hazardous wastes; and
(iv) impacts on biodiversity, habitats and rare species caused by contractors during the construc-
tion activities. Since the WWTP work will be done in properties owned by public o municipal
Environmental Assessment                                                        8
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
land, the project will not entail any resettlement and will cause no impacts to structures of cul-
tural importance.
As part of the Technical Assessment process, public consultation were held during the
preparation of the Technical Assessment Report and EIA with several stakeholders at central and
local levels. Two separate consultations were held under the auspices of the three municipalities
of Lezhe, Durres and Saranda. The consultations for each municipality were organized in two
phases:
1. Single consultations with group of stakeholders (Local authorities, local NGOs, local
communities) sharing common interest and concerns.
2. Broad consultation with representatives of stakeholders and top level decision-makers from
local and central governement.
The main goal of the consultation process was to inform all the stakeholders on the results of the
Technical Assessment report and to collect their suggestions in order to improve the project
design. The Consultation Process final report is attached on Annex 4.
II.4.2. EMP MAIN FEATURES
The detailed Environmental Management Plan (EMP), included as an annex in the Project Im-
plementation Plan, includes monitoring and mitigation activities for the three sites (i.e. Durress,
Lezhe and Saranda) at the different stages, during Final Design preparation and implementation.
The EMP includes:
Mitigation activities to be included in the WWTP Final Design stage
(i)-the elaboration of a manual for sustainable WWTP management including control of the wa-
ter regime in the artificial wetlands, and emergency procedure in the event of accidental pollu-
tion of the water body, and consideration of the breeding requirements of birds;
(ii)-removal of top soil before starting civil works, and substitute it with an impervious clay lin-
ers to avoid negative impact on the ground water;
iii)-elaboration of mosquito and odor control and management plan;
iv)-creation all around the WWTP sites a buffer zone wide not less than 40 m, with 30/20 m of
bare strips and close to the WWTP fence a tree belts 5/10 m wide with autochthonous tree
species plantation;
v)-elaboration of environmental management guidelines for the construction stage.
Mitigation activities to be included in the WWTP Implementation stage
(i)-During project implementation, procedures will be introduced to ensure that potential nega-
tive impacts as a result of the project are mitigated: the bidding and contract documents for con-
struction will describe that the WWTP construction will be minimized though good construction
practices to prevent, minimize or mitigate environmental damage. These requirements will be
enforced by the Supervision of Works during construction. Also, to avoid extraction silt clay or
clayey sand material for WWTP embankments (or sand and gravel for the concrete construction)
from river beds, Contract Documents will require prior approval of the Engineer for extraction of
any construction material. Contractor's requests fof approval will identify the location of author-
Environmental Assessment                                                      9
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
ized silt clay or clayey sand borrow areas, or sand gravel quarries areas, and the quantities of ma-
terial to be extracted;
(ii)-Environmental indicators, including quality effluents, will be monitored annually by the
MoE in accordance with the Environmental Management Plan and the new Law on
Environmental Protection under GoA approval.
Environmental Assessment                                                       10
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
III. ANALYSIS OF CURRENT SITUATION. FORECAST AND ASSESSMENT OF
EXPECTED IMPACT OF THE PROJECT ON ENVIRONMENTAL COMPO-
NENTS
111.1. INFRASTRUCTURE
111.1.1.EXISTING SANITATION INFRASTRUCTURES
The coastal cities of Durres, Lezhe, Saranda and Shengjin don't have any wastewater treatment
facilities and existing raw sewage outfalls are located either directly on the seacoast, on the bank
of coastal rivers or on drainage ditches that after a short distance discharge directly into globally
significant. tidal marshlands and/or the sea. The effect of these discharges on the marine
environmental and on bathing waters is described in the following chapt. III.3.
Durres city and rural areas sewage system
The Durress sewage system is a combined system, which collect surface storm water and
wastewater. The wastewater are collected and discharged by gravity or by pumping stations in a
surface drainage canals system that outfall to the sea by a hydrovore station at Porto Roma, about
six kilometres north of Durres City. The waste water is discharged without any treatment or
monitoring on the sea. The area of service of the Sewerage Enterprise is restricted to the mu-
nicipal area of Duress City. The land drainage system and Porto Romano hydrovore station is
maintained and operated by the Ministry of Agriculture. Many properties in the service area are
not connected to the public sewage system and they either discharge directly to the surface
drainage canals or septic tanks.
Lezhe city sewage system
The Lezhe sewage system i,s a combined system which collects surface storm water and waste
water. The wastewater is collected and discharged by gravity and one pumping station, without
any treatment or monitoring, in the Drint River. Many properties in the service area are not con-
nected to the public sewage system and they either discharge directly to the Drinit or in local
septic tanks. The waste water of Lezhe gravitate towards five outlets locates on left bank of
Drinit River. The main part of the town area is served by a system of concrete collector which
end at a pumping station from the waste water are delivered in the Drinit River. The north area of
the town is served by a system of pipes flow by gravity by three outlet in Drinit. The waste water
of the south zone of Lezhe flow by gravity in Drinit by the River Manati.
Shengjin city sewage system
As Lezhe sewage system also Shengjin has a combined system which collect surface storm water
and waste water. The wastewater are collected and discharged without any treatment in the Ke-
nalla Lake by a pumping station. The drainage system is composed by a main concrete collector
following the alignment of the coastal road. The waste waters falls in a pumping station and then
lifted by a ND 400 rising main to the Kenalla Lake. The sewerage system is equipped of storm
water overflow into the sea. The overflow ND) 600 mm is located on the lower part of the coastal
road.
Saranda city sewage system
The Saranda sewage system is a unitary system which collect only the wastewater. The wastewa-
ter are collected and discharged without any treatment at sea. The Saranda sewage system is go-
ing to be rehabilitate under the EU Phare program-Water PMU "Emergency Measures-Saranda
Water Supply and Sanitation", whose main items are: Rehabilitation of the main collector, Sew-
age system and pumping station; Sewer cleaning Program; Sewer and manholes rehabilitation.
Environmental Assessment
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
The main Saranda collector begins in Koder and runs eastward, located in the promenade close
to the sea shore. The collector terminates at the sewage pumping station which is located near the
former Butrinti Hotel. The pumping station lifts the flow from collector through a rising main to
an out-let to convey the sewage flow in the Cuka Channel, where it would then flow into the sea.
At the present the collector discharges flows to the sea near to the small Saranda harbour.
111.1.2. WATER DEMAND AND WASTEWATER RETURN IN THE PROJECT AREAS
The wastewater production are based on the water demand. The demand for water is rising rap-
idly due to expanding residential and commerce development in the urban areas. Water con-
sumption is presently constrained by intermittent supply. The evolution of the population and fu-
ture wastewater production is made up to the horizon year 2022 (twenty years). The present per
capita water use is assumed 80 litres per day. The water consumption will steadily increase with
improved service and rising living standard, and it is assumed 150 litres per day on 2020 year.
Tab. III. 1-Coastal cities wastewater production
Coastal Reference  Estimate  Wastewater   Average    Peak flow
cities   Year    population  production   flow
(m3/day)     (71s)       (7s)
Durres    2002     150,000     9,590        111        165
2022     250,000     30,240      350         525
Lezhe     2002     18,000      1,150      13.3        19.95
2022     30,000      3,460       41.6        62.5
Shengiin   2002      6,000      380         4.4         6.6
2022      12,000     1,730       16.6        25.0
Saranda    2002     30,000      1,920      22.2        33.3
2022     60,000      7,200       83.3       125.0
III.1.3.WASTEWATER TREATMENT PROPOSED FACILITIES
The project proposed sanitation facilities for the coastal cities of Durrres, Lezhe/Shengjin and
Saranda, con be summarized as follow:
* Construction of a Low cost wastewater treatment system;
* Construction of the new sewage main collectors to deliver the wastewater from the exist-
ing cities out-let to the wastewater treatment plants.
Low cost water treatment systems relies on natural kinetics developing in the wetlands, reducing
at the minimum the mechanical devices and energy supply. Among these technologies are in-
cluded the Constructed Treatment Wetlands (CTW).
The natural wastewater treatment plant proposed by Consultant, is composed by pre-treatment
unit, a primary treatment system interconnected with a constructed wetland.
Environmental Assessment                                                         12
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
The typical lay-out of the proposed natural wastewater treatment plant is composed by:
*   Pre-treatment units: including bar rack units and an aerated grit chamber;
*   Primary treatment system: Aerated Oxidation pond;
*   Constructed Wetland according the Free Water Surface type (FWS);
*   Sludge treatment and disposal system: sludge dry beds.
The FWS will be composed by 3 zones characterized by different vegetation:
o zone 1:fully vegetated with floating and emergent plants, with sedimentation and
flocculation, as determined by transect measurements of dissolved oxygen and pol-
lutant concentrations;
o zone 2:open-water surface with submerged growth plants. The natural aeration proc-
esses are supplemented by submerged macrophytes during daylight periods to ele-
vate dissolved oxygen in order to oxidize carbonaceous compounds (BOD) to suffi-
ciently low levels to facilitate the nitrification;
o zone 3.fully vegetated with floating and emergent plants, with a final denitrification
action.
The WWTP will be equipped with sludge drying beds to the sludge dewatering. For the
treatment of the dewatered sludge two options will be defined during the Final Desing stage: (i)
disposal in controlled dumpsites (sludge earthening), and (ii) agricultural land sludge application.
III.1.3.1.   Durres area
According the Consultant evaluation, in the area of Durres, the constructed wetlands system has
to be considered as a preliminary intervention, mainly due to the expected increase of demo-
graphic development and population settlement (present population of 150,000 inhabit.), as well
as the prevailing industrial sector of productive activities.
In the case of Durres the Consultant proposed a combined Conventional and Natural wastewater
treatment system including:
* A high rate activated sludge process comprising of two aerated sludge tanks and two secon-
dary settlement tanks where the simple dry weather flow is treated;
* In case of any storm water events a division unit separates all exceeding wastewater loads
after the aerated grit chamber and is running via a bypass to the CTW (40.0 ha extension).
111.1.3.2.  Lezhe/Shengjin areas
According the preliminary design carried-out the CTW surface areas required for
Lezhe/Shengjin at the 20 years horizon are:
*   Aerated Oxidation pond: 0.6 ha;
*   FWS:                 7.5 ha.
H1.1.3.3.    Saranda area
For Saranda city the CTW surface areas required for at the years 2022 (20 year horizon) are:
Environmental Assessment                                                       13
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
*   Aerated Oxidation pond: 0.8 ha;
*   FWS:                 9.6 ha.
III.1.4. FORECAST OF EXPECTED IMPACT
The construction of the WWTP may increase the filtration of untreated water into the soil, re-
spectively the level of underground water. Thus will be necessary the removal of top soil before
starting civil works, and substitute it with an impervious clay liners to avoid negative impact on
the ground water.
Another risk could be related to the of sludge disposal contamination
The construction work will result in large quantities of building and vegetation refuse. There will
be large-scale excavation and filling activities related to the construction of temporary and per-
manent waste grounds and quarries will be searched for to provide soil necessary for the CTW
embankments and protection dykes. The landfill sites will identified by the Consultant during the
Final Design stage, based on a detailed Geological survey. During project implementation, pro-
cedures will be introduced to ensure that potential negative impacts as a result of the project are
mitigated: the bidding and contract documents for construction will describe that the CTW con-
struction will be minimized though good construction practices to prevent, minimize or mitigate
environmental damage. These requirements will be enforced by the Supervision of Works during
construction. Also, to avoid extraction silt clay or clayey sand material for CTW embankments
(or sand and gravel for the concrete construction) from river beds, Contract Documents will re-
quire prior approval of the Engineer for extraction of any construction material.
111.2. CLIMATE
HII.2.1.AIR TEMPERATURE
The Albanian coastal area, as far as the climate is concerned, is included in the areas of the sub-
tropical belt climate. The vegetation period (> 100 C) varies from 330-340 days in Saranda
(Ionian sea), up to 240-260 days in Velipoja (Adriatic). The quantity of the active temperatures >
100 C varies from 4400 up to 6000 hours. The coastal area has about 300 sunny days per year.
The average amount of the global sunny radiation is 130 k.kal /CMA a year. The potential bio-
logical indicator in this area takes the value 3-4 times higher than the other parts of the country.
The annual average temperature in the Ionian coast is about 16-17°C while in the Adriatic is
around 14,8-16,5 'C. Winter is relatively short, mild and very wet while summer is long, hot and
very dry. The coldest month is January while the hottest month is July.
In the coastal area the temperature of the surface waters varies from 19.20 C in Saranda (Ionian)
up to 17.7° C in Shengjini (Adriatic). The highest temperature of water during perennial period
has been 29.8°C, while the lowest drops to 7.7° C. The Albanian coastal waters are generally
about 2-3 'C warmer than the Italian coastal ones.
Average monthly temperatures for the project area sites are indicated in Tab.III.2 below.
Environmental Assessment                                                       14
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Tab. 111.2 - Average monthly temperature in project areas
Coastal   Jan   Feb   Mar Apr May       Jun   Jul  Aug   Sep   Oct Nov     Dec   Year
cities
Durres     6.4  7.5   10.0  13.8  17.6  21.7  24.0  24.0  21.2  16.4  12.2  8.4   16.0
Lezhe     6.6   8.0  10.9  14.4  18.0  21.7  24.5  24.6  21.5  17.3  12.9  8.8   15.5
Saranda    9.1   9.7  11.4  14.2  18.3  22.0  24.5  24.7  22.0  18.0  13.9  10.7  16.5
Source: Institute of Hydrometeorology, years 1951-1980-value in 'C.
H11.2.2. RAINFALL
Rainfall is an important climatic element, affecting the purity of the atmospheric air, the quantity
and quality of waters. The specific geographical features, the transfer of air masses and their
transformation is reflected in the type of rainfall, the quantity of rainfall and its distribution.
Albania is located at the boundary of two climatic regions: the Mediterranean zone, and Central
Europe. In addition, the country combine a coastal plain in the West with fairly high mountains.
The rain come mainly with south-west winds and falls according the obstacles encountered. This
gives a variety of climates and rainfall patterns in the different regions of the country. The aver-
age annual rainfall is around 1484 mm; the seasonal patterns is very consistent, with July, some-
times August, as the driest month and November, sometimes December, as the wettest one.
Average monthly rainfall for the project area sistes are indicated in Tab.III.3 below.
Tab. I11.3- Average monthly rainfall in Project areas
Coastal   Jan   Feb   Mar Abr May       Jun   Jul  Aug   Sep   Oct Nov     Dec   Year
cities
Durre     135   113   102   90    68    52    29    45    68   114   160   132   1222
Leghe    174.4 148.4 138.2 121.4  98.0  78.0  38.7  54.4  94.4  152.0 190.3 175.1  1463
Saranda   188.3 151.0 117.9  80.9  57.4  25.0  10.7  22.9  97.4  164.4 232.1 203.6  1158
Source: Institute of Hydrometeorology, years 1951-1980-value in mm
1.2.3. SOURCES OF ATMOSPHERIC POLLUTION AND THEIR POTENTIAL IMPACT ON THE PROJECT
AREA.
Sources of air pollution in the project area are related with the urban/industrial areas of the
Durres, Lezfie and Saranda cities. The other major pollution source are the Durres hot spots. The
Durres hotspot sites are former industrial facilities where hazardous waste is causing
Environmental Assessment                                                                       15
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
unacceptable human exposure requiring urgent risk reduction measures. One hotspot is the
chemical waste storage located approximately 10 km north to the center of Durres City at the
southeast foot of the Bishti Palles Cape. In this hotspot there are three storage buildings
overloaded with chemicals like carbon disulfide, methanol, dimethyl amine, HCH residue etc.
The second hotspot is the chromate plant, the chromate dumpsite and the lindane at the former
Durres chemical plant located about 6.5 north to the center of the city of Durres and less then 1
km south of Porto Romano. The site is located on the Durres Plain, at the foot of Durres Hills.
The chromate waste was dumped between the former chemical plant and the drainage channels
in a layer approximately 1.5-2 m high. Two highly polluted areas represent the Industrial area of
Durres located about 3 km east to the city center, and the Han-house located about 5 km
northeast to the city center. While most of the former industrial establishments currently are not
functioning the Hen-hose is normally working. No specific studies of the transport of pollutants
by the atmosphere and rainfalls into the water have been made in Albania. Thus the amount of
chemical pollution, falling out into the surface waters through atmospheric settling is unknown.
I1I.2.4. POSSIBLE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION RESULTS
We believe the construction of CTW in the three project area will lead to a very insignificant
microclimatic change, with a little reducing heat in summer and some increase of air humidity.
In addition this insignificant chance will be manifest in a very very narrow area in the immediate
vicinity of the CTW's.
During the construction period certain amounts of dust and waste gases from the machines will
be generated. At the present stage of the study no exact estimation of the emissions can be made.
However, these would not represent a serious risk for the local population, biodiversity and in-
frastructure.
Environmental Assessment                                                       16
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
111.3. SURFACE WATER AND GROUND WATER
111.3.1. THE ALBANtAN MARINE ECOSYSTEM
The Albanian coastal region contains two geographic entities: the Adriatic and the Ionian Sea
coastal areas. The total length of coastline is about 429 km and the national waters confined to
territorial waters of 12 miles width. The continental shelf lies entirely within the exclusive zone.
The shelf is wider in the north (Adriatic sea), up to 25 miles across, and narrower in the south
(Ionian sea), 2-3 miles width. Beyond 25 miles, sea depth exceeds 1000 m in the international
channel.
There is no particular wind that prevails in the coastal plain. In winter, the most frequent one
blows from the Southeast and in the summer season, the prevailing wind blows from the north-
western direction.
There are three types of rather low currents in the Adriatic sea: continuous currents, tidal cur-
rents, and wind-driven currents. Strong winds persisting for a couple of days may create tempo-
rary currents running in the opposite direction with respect to steady and tidal currents.
The Adriatic coastal area (the northern part of the Albanian coast) is generally characterised by
coastal lowlands (alluvial plains) intersected by rivers, and flanked by hills along its upland
boundary. The coast is made of long sandy beaches, deltaic river mouths and lagoons. The
coastal waters are shallow, receiving water from the rivers and several drainage canals. At sea,
the water depth increases slowly, with first a sandy bottom with the associated biocenosis which
becomes muddy with increasing depth.
On the sandy or muddy bottoms, the marine flora is scarce or occupies specific areas where cur-
rents or waves have less action.
The extensive sea grass beds of Posidonia oceanica are an important part of the Albanian marine
ecosystem, often occupying a considerable part of the littoral zone. Posidonia oceanica and very
well developed marine communities are found along Porto Romano bay and Shengjini bay.
The underwater rocky bottoms at Rodoni and Lagji Capes (Durres), and the eastern side of Vlora
bay host patches of Posidonia oceanica.
111.3.1.1.  Porto Romano and Rrushkull-Erzeni River outlet (Durres area)
The area of Porto Romano and Lalzi bay is a narrow, reclaimed part of the coastal plain. There
are some natural habitats left along the coastline, such as a belt of pine trees, temporary marshes,
roadbeds and salt marshes. In addition to the loss of large wetland parts by land reclamation, the
quality of natural environment of that area continues to deteriorate due to the input of the pol-
luted Erzeni river (contaminated mainly by sewage disposed upstream), direct discharge of un-
treated urban and industrial wastewater in the Porto Romano bay, excessive felling of trees for
fuel, excessive erosion phenomenons, uncontrolled hunting, uncontrolled fishing and human dis-
turbance.
The Lalzi bay with the Erzeni river mouth is an environmentally sensitive area. The coastline of
the Rodoni-Bishti i Palles Capes, of which 35 % are cliffs exposed to mild erosion stretching
along both capes. The remaining parts of this unit are alluvial beaches (actually, the Lalzi bay) of
which 18 % is exposed to erosion and 47 % to deposition. Any intervention altering the quantity
Environmental Assessment                                                       1 7
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
of the material carried by the Erzeni river will affect the littoral, generating new erosion proc-
esses. The Porto Romano bay also is a section attacked by erosion.
The underwater rocky bottoms at Rodoni and Lagji Capes host patches of Posidonia oceanica.
H1.3.1.2.   Drini outlet (Lezhe-Shengjin area)
This unit has about 15 km of the coastline, from Shengjini harbour to the southern part of Vaini
lagoon (including the Drini river), oriented in N-S direction. The shore are sandy and sediment is
coming both from the Buna and Drini rivers transported by the longshore currents. The marine
slope is gentle reaching the 20 m isobath at average of 2.0 km offshore. Kenalla, Kune and Vaini
lagoons are separated from the shallow coastal waters by the narrow sandbars, low and mobile
dunes, and the planted pine tree belt (Pinus halepensis, Pinus pinea).
Posidonia oceanica meadows and Penaeus kerathurus populations are reduced due to the pol-
luted industrial and urban discharges into this area(l). The breeding grounds of Posidonia oce-
anica have also deteriorated because of changes in the structure of the fishing fleet(2). Fishing ac-
tivities occur in the coastal waters including the trawlers from Shengjini and small local fishing
boats. As in other places, the local population is collecting Bivalves along the shores.
The coastal wetlands of Drini river (Kenalla-Kune-Vaini lagoons) are a part of an environmen-
tally sensitive area. Inland of the Shengjini beach lies the Kenalla lake surrounded by a dike with
the open lake and a dried-up part with salinity tolerant vegetation. Through a pipeline, the urban
sewage of Shengjini is directly drained into the lake. Further south lies the Kune lagoon extend-
ing up to Drini river mouth.
The coastal reach in the northem part of Shengjini has presented an coastal erosion phenomena.
After that, until some 2.5 km south of Shengjini, the coast is relatively stable or slightly reced-
ing.
H1.3.1.3.    Saranda bay and Ksamili bay (Saranda area)
The coastal line is very refracted. It is divided in two main types from the morph graphic point of
view: (i) high abrasive coast and (ii) low accumulating coast. The abrasive process is intensive
and many falezas are created. The accumulation process is low and mainly developed in lowland
areas. Sedimentation in Pavllo outlet is in the origin of sandy beach formation.
The coastline of Saranda bay to Ksamili bay can be divided into several sections: the area includ-
ing the town of Saranda shows a recent development on the northern bluff near the entrance to
the harbour; the area south of Saranda where the cliffs are steep and cut with caves and intermit-
tent sandy beaches; the abandoned citrus plantations and deforested areas in the vicinity of
Ksamili; the Ksamili islands, with small sandy beaches, Mediterranean maquis, and extensive
Posedonia oceanica meadows covering the shallow areas of the bay of Ksamili. The whole area
from Ksamili Islands to Stillo bay could be integrated in a protected and managed area with in-
terconnected areas. In Ksamili bay and inlets, a marina and environmentally sound resort place
could be settled.
(1) Albania Coastal Zone Management Plan: Final Report - Phase One, 1995.
(2) Albanian Convention on Biological Diversity -1999.
Environmental Assessment                                                       18
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Based on its biodiversity values Saranda bay to Ksamili has been included in the propopsed net-
work of Protected Areas under the category of Protected landscape and Seascape Area.
111.3.1.4.  Kune-Vain wetland and Kenalla Lake
The Kune-Vain wetland and Kenalla Lake or complex Kune-Vain lagoon represent one of the
important coastal Albanian wetland. Area of Kune-Vaini wetland and Kenalla lake represents a
wetland area of multiple ecological and economic values and uses, as provide fish and wildlife
habitats, support complex food web, absorb water to reduce flooding and damage from storms,
provide erosion control, improve the quality of water ed in particularly provide open space &
aesthetic value.
The Drini River is the longest river of Albania, and the Kune-Vain lagoon complex has been
built by the accumulation of the river sediments. This area is comprised in the network of Alba-
nian Protected Areas, as described in the document "Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan
(BSAP)", approved by Government of Albania in the year 2000. The delta of Drini is recognized
internationally as an Important Bird Area (IBA) and a Specially Protected Area (SPA) and repre-
sent the area of Kune-Western part of Kune lagoon, defined in the network of Albanian Pro-
tected areas as Scientific Reserve, according to the 1st category of rUCN. The site of delta of
Drini is an important area for wintering water birds. In previous years the delta was the most im-
portant site for the nesting of herons (Ardeidae) and Cormorants including the Globally Threat-
ened species of Pygmy Cormorant (Phalacrocorax pygmeus).
The other two parts of this lagoon complex, Kenalla-Eastern part of Merxhani lagoon and Drini
River Outlet with Ceka (part of Vain wetlands) and Vaini wetlands are defined as Managed
Nature Reserve, in according to the 4th category of IUCN.
111.3.1.5.   Butrinti lake and related Wetland environment
Butrint is a wetland complex in the southern part of Albania, famous for its archaeological
monuments, historical significance and natural richness. The core area is composed by a tectonic
lagoon of 1600 ha, known as Lake Butrint, that is surrounded by forested hills and mountains
and complimented by saltwater and freshwater marshlands. The main activities are fishing, mus-
sel farming, stock raising, vineyards and cultural tourism, focused on the southern part of Lake
Butrint (Greek, Roman, Byzantine, Venetian and Ottoman sites associated with Buthrotum), des-
ignated also as an UNESCO World Heritage Site in December 1999.
The area of Butrint is expanded from Cape Qefali to the Greek border. This area belongs to the
District of Saranda and covers 35 km of coastline. The relief is not very important with an alti-
tude of 363 m at about 4.5 km of the coast east to Butrinti lake.
Butrint is also included in the proposed network of Albanian Protected Areas under the category
of Multiple Use Area. The zone is declared recently as Ramsar Site (2002) and it is recognized
internationally as an Important Bird Area (IBA) and a Specially Protected Area (SPA). Butrint is
an important area for wintering waterbirds.
H11.3.2. WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION LOADS
Degradation of the quality of trans-boundary water resources, caused mainly by pollution from
land-based activities is an important problem. The coastal cities of Durres, Lezhe, Saranda and
Shengjin do not have any wastewater treatment facilities. All the existing data from the recent
years have shown certain trends toward decrease of the quality of water in the Adriatic sea.
Environmental Assessment                                                        19
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
H11.3.3. WATER ANALYSIS AND DATA EVALUATION
Physical and chemical parameters. During the Technical assessment study carried-out by the
Consultant, a water/wastewater and seawater quality examinations was performed, in order to
confirm or adjust available water quality data.
The examination mainly concerned raw sewage and receptor water-bodies quality. The sea water
quality have been investigated in terms of indices on water, sediments and biota.
The analysed sewage samples taken at project's sites wastewater facilities can be characterized
as strong-moderate with typical domestic composition.
The analyses and assessment of existing studies, as well as the analyses performed during the
study, conferm the degradation of the quality of water resources by pollution from land-based
activities (nutrients, pathogens and oxygen demanding wastes), in the all coastal cities of Durres,
Lezhe and Saranda.
In the Tab.III.4 a summary of analyses as analyses from the sampling performed, is given. Fur-
thermore, for comparison, typical values for sewage in European Countries are shown.
The last column give the value which form the basis for calculation of CTW performed by Con-
sultant.
Relevant World Bank general environmental guidelines for wastewater allowed limits for
domestic sewage for discharge to surface water after treatment are summarized in Tab.III.5.
Tab.III.4-Water quality analysis
Typical EC values Overall values for sewages out-  Assumed
Parameter        for sewage               fall               values
(mg/I)              (mg/l)
Strong Moderate Thin Durres Lezhe Shengjin Saranda Durres Other
cites
BOD5 (mg/l)     350   250  150   136    118    67      107   250   200
Total N (mg/1)-  80   50    30    44     34     29     33     60    50
Total P (mg/I)  23    16    10   27 1    22     14     20     27    20
SS (mg/I)     450   300   190  335-   346    102     217    400   400
COD (mg/I)     740   530   320   280    240    164    220    350   350
Wastewater quantity                                             80%of 800/oof
lcd                                                     150 lcd 150 lcd
The main reason for the apparently thin sewage composition in term of BOD5 are assumed to be
related with a infiltration of water from the water table and consequent dilution of the wastewa-
ter. For this reason an higher value of BOD5 ranging between 250-200 mg/l has been assumed in
the calculations (see last column of Tab.III.4).
Analyses of toxic components, heavy metals etc., indicate very low values compared with guide-
lines for allowed limits. PH values are in range from 7.5 to 8.32, which is normal.
Environmental Assessment                                                         20
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Tab.III.5-World Bank general Environmental Guidelines-Domestic sewage limits
Limit
Polluant Parameter
(mg/i)
Biochemical oxygen demand
BOD5 (mg/I)              50
Chemical oxygen demand
COD (mg/A)              250
Phosphorous (mg/I)         2.0
Total suspended solids
TSS (mg/l)              50
Oil and grease           10
Heavy metals, total        10
Ammonia                10
PH                   6-9
< 400
MPN/1 00ml
Coli forms
(MPN-Most
Probable number)
1I.3.4. POLLUTION EFFECTS
HI.3.4.1.    Rivers (Drint River and Cuka cannel)
The concentration of polluting substances changes as a result of hydrodynamic, physical and
chemical, biological and biochemical processes taking place in the receiving river/natural wet-
land. An important part is played by the oxidizing and restoring processes, absorption and de-
sorption, and the formation of insoluble compounds. The transformation processes of organic
compounds are an important factor influencing the state of water ecosystems. As a result of self-
purification processes, organic substances undergo qualitative changes, which are mostly harm-
less. Biochemical oxidation of organic substances takes place in two phases: carbon -dioxide and
nitric. During the first phase, organic compounds of carbon dioxide are decomposed and during
the second one processes of decomposition of organic nitrogen - ammonification and nitrifica-
tion take place as a result of the functioning of heterotrophic bacteria. Nitrification is a process of
biochemical ammonia ions being oxidized to nitrites and nitrates by autotrophic microorganisms.
In the absence or presence of a minimum content of oxygen in the water, denitrification proc-
esses may develop. Intermediate products are nitrites and nitrogen oxides, of which N20 is
mostly emitted in the air. Nitrates are usually reduced to molecular nitrogen.
The non-transparency of water has a considerable impact on the primary occurrence of denitrifi-
cation processes.
Environmental Assessment                                                         21
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
The dynamics of nutrients depends on both the seasonal alterations and their content in the river
waters. Nitrogen reduction in wetland zones can be assessed after the processing of a sufficient
amount of information which will be collected from own monitoring data during operation in
wetland zones.
Phosphorus is found in water areas mostly in the form of inorganic phosphorus compounds.
Organically bound phosphorus occurs in dissolved state as phosphate in the organisms or
sediments. Bacteria and plant organisms as a phosphorus source use dissolved inorganic
phosphate compounds in the form of dissociated ions. Dissolved and organically bound
phosphate is turned in orthophosphate during the process of phosphatization. In many instances
the absorption of organic carbon compounds in the river ecosystems can be realized only in the
presence of nitrogen and phosphorus.
The expected reduction of nutrient pollutants (nitrogen and phosphorus) in the waters of project
area rivers (i.e. Drint river, Porto Romano surface drainage canals and Cuka cannel) resulting
from the CTW construction in Lezhe, Durres and Saranda will be significant as stated on the fol-
lowing chapter 111.3.4.3.
III.3.4.2.  Marine area
Environment is an end user of water resources which poses therefore sometimes severe restric-
tions particularly on the emission of wastewater from other water use sectors. High BOD loads
and suspended materials may influence biochemical and light conditions in the marine environ-
ment; industrial micro pollutants may be directly toxic for aquatic life and fish; and pollution
from excess agrochemicals may have similar effects.
The marine ecosystem, though almost certainly damaged by uncontrolled wastewater emission
of coastal urban concentrations, industry and polluted rivers, is still generally in a reasonable
condition and its ecological and economic value may be considerable. Unfortunately, studies
about the value and eventual degradation of the marine ecosystem are rare and an overall inven-
tory has never been executed. The Biodiversity Action Plan has as a priority the mapping of the
sea meadows with Posidonia oceanica and the study of animal groups and plants, because of
lows scale of knowledge of a considerable part of these plants.
Little is known in Albania about marine environment along the Adriatic Coast and the effects of
the considerable pollution of the last 30 years, both by discharge into the sea of polluted river
water and by direct discharge of untreated urban and industrial wastewater. Except for smaller
areas along the coast in the vicinity of cities and industrial concentrations, inspection shows in
general visually clear and unaffected waters. However, systematic research on marine ecosys-
tems and the effect of pollution has never been performed.
The problem of pollution in the marine environment becomes ever more serious. Adriatic Sea is
easily exposed to pollution because of restricted water exchange and long shore lines. Areas with
stagnant or partly stagnant conditions are especially sensitive to pollution due to slow water ex-
change. Organic wastes from communities and industries will cause an oxygen reduction process
in the water. Oxygen is utilised for oxidation of the organic matter and nutrients bound in the
matter will be released. This process will cause an increase of the primary plankton production in
the area. This again will increase the oxygen utilisation. A secondary oxygen reduction process
will begin, where the new organic matter is oxidised. This secondary oxygen reduction may re-
quire two to five times more oxygen than the primary process. This secondary process is not ac-
counted for in the conventional BOD techniques.
The enrichment of natural waters by nutrients (eutrophication), primarily nitrogen in marine wa-
ters but also phosphorus, has been associated with increased primary productivity and nui-
Environmental Assessment                                                       22
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
sance algal growth in coastal zones and semi-enclosed and enclosed areas of seas. Increased
loads of nutrients to coastal waters have caused increasing eutrophication and the major sources
of nutrients to coastal waters are from sewage disposal. The primary production increases until
the light penetration limits it. The consequences of eutrophication can be increased frequency of
algal blooms (sometimes toxic), increased water turbidity, slime production, oxygen depletion in
deep waters and mass fish and benthic fauna kills. Signs of such eutrophication can be observed
in the Saranda bay, Shengjini and Kenalla.
The relatively low concentrations of dissolved oxygen in Saranda bay (approx. 7.63 mg/I), in
Shengjini bay, Kenalla Lake (approx.8.46 mg/I) and Drinit river (9.70 mg/I), are to be related to
pollution by organic matter. Also the results of the chemical analysis into the sea near the points
of sewage discharge demonstrate the presence of nitrites. Particularly in Saranda bay, Shengjini
bay and Porto Romano bay, it was observed(3) the development of some nitrofile algae popula-
tions (Ulva rigida and Enteromorpha spp.), and this is an other demonstration of eutrophication
in this waters. Ammonia can be converted to organic nitrogen by these resident algae (Ulva, En-
teromorpha). Ulva blooms can become so luxuriant that the algal decay products are more un-
pleasent than the sewage itself.
Sewage pollution is directly responsible for the closure of many molluscan shellfish growing ar-
eas in Europe. Sellfish can accumulate and retain pathogenic organisms and toxic organic and
inorganic substances present in the growing areas. During the last years mussel breeding was
practically stopped, both for internal organisational reasons, but above all because of the block
on exports imposed by the EC for sanitary reasons, in October 1994 for all living products of the
fishery sector. The main requirement for the export of live mussels to the EU is the setting up of
a shellfish monitoring system to guarantee the safety of bivalves harvested from water bodies.
Currently Albania faces a ban due to a previous outbreak of cholera in live molluscs. This issue
is now being addressed through the development of a monitoring system to certify the areas on
the Albanian coastline and the marine waters that can harvest and export mussels. This is cov-
ered by EC/91/492 on placing live bivalves on the EU market.
Posidonia oceanica meadows populations are reduced due to the polluted industrial and urban
discharges into this area, particularly in the Shengjini- Lezha and Saranda-Ksamili area, but also
in the Porto Romano and Lalzi bay. This has been associated with an increase in water turbidity
(Secchi disc. 1.25-1.50 m) reducing the amount of light exposure on the sea bed and this caused
reduction in the Posidonia oceanica beds over the last decades (Kashta L., 1998). In sea areas
with a low nutrient content a release of organic wastes may cause eutrophication of the surface
water in the whole area. The increased biological production may be beneficial to the surface
water by increasing the fish yield, but it can have serious effects on conditions in the deep water.
Increased decaying organic matter there may lead to oxygen deficiency and can destroyed bot-
tom fauna. It seems to be very difficult for nature to restore oxidising conditions when such a
fertilisation cycle has started.
In Albania, the major types of endangered ecosystems and habitats are not only coastal (sand
dunes, river deltas, alluvial forests, lagoons, and coastal lakes), but also marine ecosystems at
medium and infralitoral level (l). The Posidonia meadows represents an important ecosystem in
the Adriatic Sea. The fundamental role played by the marine phanerogam meadows and in par-
ticular by Posidonia, can be summarised in the following points: stabilisation of the sea-bed
through the development of an effective radical and stoloniferous apparatus; reduction of the in-
tensity of movements of water with consequent maintenance of coastal balance, thanks to the
(3) Kashta L. and Mio A., 1 992-Tirana University.
(1) Albania Coastal Zone Management Plan: Final Report - Phase One, 1995.
Environmental Assessment                                                       23
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
softening effect of the "matte" and the layer of vegetation; high production of oxygen and or-
ganic material by means of photosynthesis; direct and indirect source for numerous organisms
and starting point for a complete food web; habitat of choice for numerous commercially impor-
tant species, such as fish, cephalopods and crustaceans.
Information from all three project areas gives quite a clear picture of the organic load of the re-
spective coastal zones. In all the project areas the urban centres discharge sewage directly into
the sea (Saranda, Porto Romano-Durres and Shengjini bay) or into the wetlands (Kenalla ) or
into the river (Drini-Lezhe) at short distances from the sea and discharged sewage is not treated.
The situation is particularly severe in Saranda, Shengjini and Kenalla. In the city of Saranda, ur-
ban and industrial waste is discharged directly in the central part of Saranda bay, and through the
Cuka channel (2) into the sea. The waste plume spreads across the bay of Saranda, in a northern
direction, polluting waters in front of Saranda.
These discharges of untreated domestic sewage can significantly add to the total loads of con-
taminants. Due to the breakdown of organic matter, such discharges can cause immediate prob-
lems to marine life from high oxygen demands in the water column and sediments and through
toxic effects of ammonia. Of immediate concern to humans is the presence of large numbers of
pathogens that can cause illness and disease. Also associated with the presence of pathogens is
the potential contamination of seafood, particularly shellfish, which in Saranda bay and Butrinti
lagoon (mussel Mytilus galloprovincialis) and in areas like Porto Romano, Lalzi and Shengjini
(clams Chamelea gallina, Ruditapes decussatus etc) are commercially very important for Alba-
nian fishery.
Pollutants may affect reproduction in many different ways. Teratological development of em-
bryos may result in deformed or malfunctioning larvae which do not survive hatching. Repro-
duction may be influenced by behavioural changes of the adults during the mating season. Their
behaviour, the production of eggs and sperm, the secretion of egg membranes, eggshells and
production of egg nutrients, may be all affected by changes of hormone function and enzyme ac-
tivity. Changes in the ecosystem may influence reproductive success when vitellogenesis is di-
rectly influenced by the availability of food. In the coastal area of Shengjini bay (particularly
northern part-Rana e hedhun), in Porto Romano and Lalzi bay and near the Saranda and Ksamili
bay there are very important areas for reproduction of some fish species, first of all for sea bass
(Dicentrarchus labrax).
According the available data and observations, the pollution effects by uncontrolled and in-
creased urban wastewater discharges into the marine environment can provide negative conse-
quences both at the environmental level and to the institutional and economic ones.
H1.3.4.3. Forecast expected impact on rivers and marine ecosystems
The implementation of the proposed treatment system will provide a noticeable reduction of the
pollution loads into the receiving water bodies, which represents the major contribution to the
protection and restoring actions in the endangered coastal zone and marine habitats.
At the global level, benefits will be obtained through the reduction of transboundary pollution
into the Adriatic Sea which is currently endangering numerous species hosted in the coastal and
marine environment. Based on the Technical Assessment of the nutrient trapping capacity of the
proposed treatment system to be financed under this project, about 147 tons of Nitrogen and
(2) According EU Phare Program-"Emergency Measures-Saranda Water Supply and Sanitation"-see Annex 9
Environmental Assessment                                                       24
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Phosphorous and 768 tons of BOD5 could be reduced annually. Significant global biodiversity
benefits are expected. Specifically the wastewater treatment system will have a positive impact
on:
* Endangered marine ecosystems and habitats, in medium and infralittoral level (particu-
larly Shengjini-Lezha area, Porto Romano bay and Saranda bay);
*  Endangered coastal ecosystems: sand dunes, delta rivers (particularly Drini-Lezha), allu-
vial and wet forests, lagoons (Kune and Vaini) and coastal lakes (Kenalla);
* Protection of the Posidonia Oceanica meadows, particularly in the Shengjini- Lezha and
Saranda-Ksamili area, but also in the Porto Romano and Lalzi bay.
* Protection from eutrophication in the Saranda bay, Shengjini area and Kenalla lake;
This in tum will have a positive impact in protecting beaches from erosion as well as providing
hatchery and nutrients for endangered species. Development of some algae populations (Ulva
and Enteromorpha), particularly in Saranda bay, Shengjini bay and Porto Romano bay;
HII.4. WASTES
Household, building, industrial and hazardous wastes are generated on the territory of the
considered areas:
* Household waste generated by cities human settlements, workers during the construction
and development of the wetland zones, etc.
In the studied territory there is no organizez waste landfill. Unofficial dumping sites exist close
to the city of Durress in land drainage area close to Porto Romano.
* Construction waste
The CTW construction envisages a large amount of digging and excavation work. This will
result in large quantities of construction waste and vegetation residues waste. The landfills for
this waste will be decided following the Final Design stage. During project implementation, pro-
cedures will be introducede to ensure that potential negative impacts as a result of the project are
mitigated: the bidding and contract documents for construction will describe that the CTW con-
struction will be minimized though good construction practices to prevent, minimize or mitigate
environmental damage. These requirements will be enforced by the Supervision of Works during
construction. Also, to avoid extraction silt clay or clayey sand material for CTW embankments
(or sand and gravel for the concrete construction) from river beds, Contract Documents will re-
quire prior approval of the Engineer for extraction of any construction material. Contractor's re-
quests for approval will identify the location of authorized silt clay or clayey sand borrow areas,
or sand gravel quarries areas, and the quantities of material to be extracted;
* Hazardous waste
Small amount of hazardous waste will be generated in the course of construction work by
building machines and transport vehicles.
o Used lubricants and oil products-the change of oil will be done in a mechanical
workshop and given to a licensed company for regeneration.
Environmental Assessment                                                     25
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
o Exhausted batteries will be sent to a licensed company for regeneration. The quantity
of hazardous waste is minimal.
111.5. LANDS, SOILS AND HYDROGEOLOGY
111.5.1.     LEZHA AND SHENGJIN AREAS
H1.5.1.1.    Geology
Lezha is situated in the northern corner of Lezha Plain, open at the west to the Adriatic Sea and
surrounded by mountains at the north and at the east. This Plain constitutes the northemmost part
of the big Tirana-Ishmi Depression. During the Quaternary period while this depression has un-
dergone continuous sinking, the adjacent mountain areas are intensively raised. Particularly ac-
tive this movement has been around the ancient Mati River delta area, which includes the Lezha
Plain, also. Thick Quaternary, mainly alluvial deposits fill the Lezha Plain while high mountains
consisting of Mesozoic and Paleogene formations border it to the north and to the east.
Quaternary deposits. It is believed that thick deposits filling the Lezha Plain known as undif-
ferentiated are mostly alluvial deposits. In the upper part of the Quaternary deposits some marine
and marsh deposits are developed.
Undifferentiated Quaternary Deposits - Q4 are deposits of Mati River and less of Drini River.
The deposits of Mati River consist of layers of more or less clean gravel, sandy gravel, sand and
clay altemating in different sequences. The thickness of the Quaternary deposits all over the
plain is more then 150 m, and reaching in maximum about 280 m, as can be seen in the geologi-
cal cross-sections. Based on numerous existing wells, it appears that gravely deposits are widely
distributed, at depth, in whole Lezha Plain.
Marsh deposits - Q4kt, are developed mainly in the western, near Adriatic Sea area around the
Kune-Vain lagoons, and less in central-eastern area of the Lezha Plain. They are represented of
clays, clayey looms, clayey sands and fine sand. No special investigations are conducted on these
deposits, but some preliminary data conform their maximal thickness to be about 3-4 m. At wide
areas round the lagoons the marsh deposits at the surface are covered by a layer of salted soil
thickness about 8-25 cm and maximal concentration up to 5 %.
Marine deposits - Q4dt, are represented mainly of sand developed along the Adriatic Sea beach
and are widely developed under the marsh deposits, also. As results by the wells record, maxi-
mal thickness of the sand deposits is about 25 m
Mesozoic and Paleogene Formations outcrop in the mountain area bordering Lezha Plain. They
are represented of Jurassic and Cretaceous deposits represented mainly of limestone, and of Cre-
taceous - Paleogene deposits represented of rhythmic alternations of thin rock layers like shales,
sandstone and limestone known with the local name Krasta Flysch.
111.5.1.2.  Hydrogeology
On hydro geological point of view Lezha Plain represents the northern most sector of the big Ti-
rana-Ishmi Artesian basin. In Figure 2 is shown the hydro geological Map of Lezha Plain and in
Figure 3 are shown two hydro geological cross-sections.
The most permeable layers of the alluvial deposits of this plain, like gravel and sandy gravel, are
saturated with fresh water and form a multi-layered artesian aquifer system. The cumulative
thickness of the gravel layers, which form the most productive aquifer of the area, varies from
about 50 to about 150 m for different sectors of Lezha Plain. There are four or five gravel aquifer
Environmental Assessment                                                       26
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
layers. The recharge of the aquifer system occur mainly by the infiltration of the surface water of
Mati River in the southem part of the plain, and less by groundwater seepage from lateral out-
crops of limestone rocks bordering the plain. Natural discharge of the aquifer system occurs to-
ward the Adriatic Sea.
The gravely layers have in general distinctly high filtration properties; the transmissibility of the
first gravely layer is usually varying from about 2000 m 2/day to more then 8000 m2 /day. Accord-
ing to the high transmissibility values of the aquifer, the specific capacities of the wells are high
also. Most of the big diameter wells have specific capacity values from about 20 V/s/m to more
then about 40 I/s/m and the maximal total capacity is about 150 I/s.
In the Hydrogeological Map (Fig. 2) are shown the most recent piezometric contours of Lezha
Plain referred to the first and most important gravel aquifer layer. The groundwater in Lezha
Palin is in confined conditions in practically over all the plain, with the only exception of the
outlet areas of the Mati River. The original piezometric water level of the first gravely layer be-
fore any extraction (1962-1963) was around 4-5 m above ground level (g.l.). Today, after many
years of continuous extraction for Lezha water supply system and uncontrolled free flowing of
the about 80 wells, regional piezometric levels have stabilized around 1.5-2.5 m above g.l. show-
ing a piezometric decline of 2.0-3.0 m.
As can be seen in cross-sections (Fig. 3), the gravely aquifer system is overlaid by a low perme-
able layer of clay, clayey sand and sand, about 30-40 m thick. This layer impede the hydraulic
connection between the aquifer and the surface water and keep the pressure of the gravely aqui-
fer's groundwater.
Many groundwater wells have been drilled in Lezha Plain, which mostly have result free flowing
artesian wells. Some important big diameter wells are limited to the first aquifer layer only.
Three big diameter wells located in Barbulloja well field (3.5-km south to Lezha) are used for
Lezha city water supply. Ten big diameter wells have been drilled for irrigation of the Rila Plain,
which occupies the central part of Lezha Plain. In the periphery of Merxhani and Vain lagoons
some other free flowing wells have been drilled for "the local decrease of the salinity of the la-
goons" as a measure to increase the fishing capacity of the lagoons.
Many chemical and bacteriological analyses have been performed, in the past, in a large number
of wells. Summarizing the results of these analyses the following important considerations can
be identified:
* In most of the Lezha Plain the groundwater quality is very good, it is in 'general low mineral-
ised and low hard, excluding the north most sector of the plain (north to Lezha). The electri-
cal conductivity values are varying usually about 250 to 500 IS/cm.
*  The groundwater hardness in the central part of Lezha Plain is about 2-3 German degrees,
which is distinctly lower then the hardness of recharge source water, that of Mati River with
10-12 German degrees. This is an indication of the intensive natural groundwater softening.
The total ground water resources of the Lezha Plain are very big; the calculated natural ground-
water flow is about 2500 Vs. Present groundwater extractions from the existing wells, both
pumped and free flowing, is about 800 Vs. The remaining quantity of the natural groundwater re-
sources of about 1700 I/s is drained to the Adriatic Sea.
Environmental Assessment                                                       27
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
111.5.1.3.  Topsoil description
The topsoil description is based on the field observation only and on scarce literature data. No
special investigations (lithology logs and soil geotechnical analyses) were performed for the pur-
pose. Soil surveys should be carried during the Final Design stage.The most wide spread types
of topsoil of Lezha Plain are related to the genesis of the deposits as explained above in the para-
graph of the geology. Some average representative data of main soil mechanical properties given
below for every discussed soil types should be considered as a preliminary information. Their
exact determination will be the object of future special filed and laboratory soil mechanical in-
vestigations.
*  The topsoil types related to undifferentiated Quatemary deposits are more widespread. They
are developed in most of the Lezha plain and even partially are developed also below the
marsh deposits. They are represented mainly of clayey deposits like clay, silt clay and
clayey sand. These deposits are characterized usually of a relatively low permeability, but
have very different soil mechanic properties;
*  The topsoil types related to Marsh deposits are developed around the existing lagoons. Their
thickness is small, usually less then 1 m in the periphery of the lagoons and up to 4 m inside
the lagoon areas. Litho logically the topsoil related to the lagoons is represented of fine-
grained material like clay, clayey loom and clayey sand. The high salt content is a character-
istic for these deposits, which has a negative influence on the geotechnical soil properties;
* The topsoil types related to the marine deposits are represented mainly of different size
sands and are developed along the Adriatic Sea shoreline. In wide areas they are developed
below the marsh deposits, also.
As a conclusion it is worth to mention two important issues related to the future Lezha/Shengjin
wastewater treatment plant (CWT) and the groundwater:
The first issue concems the depth of the first gravely aquifer from the ground surface. As de-
scribed above in most of the Lazha Plain first gravely aquifer is tapped at depths from 25 m to
more then 40 m. Such a thickness of the cover layer with it's already mentioned low permeabil-
ity value is a good argument conceming the protection of the aquifer from the eventual surface
pollution infiltration.
The second important issueto consider, is the soil water (or phreatic groundwater) level. On most
of Lezha Plain the soil water level usually is at depths I to 2 m below ground surface, depending
from the distance to the drainage channels widespread over all of the plain. A big pumping sta-
tion located near the shoreline and pumping the water from the main drainage channel to the Sea
maintains the low water level in the drainage channels. In case of non-proper function of the
pumping station the water level in the drainage channel rises up and the water partially could in-
undate Lezha Plain.
H11.5.2. DURRES
Durres is one of Albania's largest cities, located in the central part of the country's coastal zone.
It has a current population of about 150,000.
A huge open drainage system has been constructed for the reclamation of the former marsh in
the Durres Plain. The drainage system of the Durres Plain ends at a pumping station located at
the northernmost edge of Durres Hills, in Porto Romano (see Figure 4). The pumping station dis-
Environmental Assessment                                                       28
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
charges, the drained water into the Adriatic Sea. Should the pump station fail to operate, parts of
the Durres plain would be flooded.
In Durres Plain there are two hotspots sites and two highly-polluted sites, which are shown in
Fig. 4. The hotspot sites are former industrial facilities where hazardous waste is causing unac-
ceptable human exposure requiring urgent risk reduction measures.
One hotspot is the chemical waste storage located approximately 10 km north to the centre of
Durres City at the southeast foot of the Bishti Palles Cape (Figure 4). In this hotspot there are
three storage buildings overloaded with chemicals like carbon disulfide, methanol, dimethyl
amine, HCH residue etc.
The second hotspot is the chromate plant, the chromate dumpsite and the lindane at the former
Durres chemical plant located about 6.5 north to the centre of the city of Durres and less then I
km south of Porto Romano. The site is located on the Durres Plain, at the foot of Durres Hills
(figure 4). The chromate waste was dumped between the former chemical plant and the drainage
channels in a layer approximately 1.5-2 m high.
Two highly polluted areas represent the Industrial area of Durres located about 3 km east to the
city centre, and the Han-house located about 5 km northeast to the city center. While most of the
former industrial establishments currently are not functioning the Hen-hose is normally working.
111.5.2.1.   Geology
Two geological structures, the Durres anticline and Spitalla syncline characterize the Durres
area. The structures are separated by an active tectonic fault, making it the area with the highest
seismological activity in Albania (see Figures 5, 6 and 7).
Durres anticline represents the hilly area from Durres at the south, to Porto Romano and Bishti
Pales Cape at the north. Durres anticline is constructed of Neogene formations (Tortonian and
Mesinian deposits) and of Pliocene deposits. Spitalla syncline is developed in the plain area of
former Durres Marsh. The upper part of the syncline is filled up of Pliocene and Quaternary de-
posits.
Tortonian deposits - N12t have only a small outcrop in Bishti Palles Cape and are represented of
clay and sandstone.
Mesinian deposits - N,3 outcrop in the western part of Durres Hills, along the Adriatic Sea
coast. They are represented of thick sandstone and conglomerate layers intercalated with clayey
layers and gypsum.
Pliocene deposits are represented of two formations with the local names Helmesi and Rrogoz-
hina. Helmesi Formation - N2h, is represented mainly of clayey layers that outcrop in most of
central part and of eastern slopes of Durres Hills. Rrogozhina Formation - N2r is composed
mainly of conglomerate and less of sandstone layers intercalated with clay layers. This formation
outcrop only in the eastern hilly areas, in Rroshbulli Hills, but many hydro geological wells in
the area of former Dunres marsh area have tapped this formation below the Quaternary deposits.
As can be seen in the cross-section (Figure 7), the uppermost conglomerate layer is tapped at the
depth about 130 m, while the deepest one is taped at depth 240 m, below ground surface. The
thickness of conglomerate layers vary from some meters up to 3040 m. Clayey layers of varying
thickness divide the conglomerate layers.
Environmental Assessment                                                       29
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Quaternary deposits, are developed mainly in the plain area of Durres Plain, where they are
placed above the Pliocene deposits of Rrogozhina Formation. These deposits are of different
genesis; some of them are not differentiated, but marsh and marine deposits are developed, also.
Undifferentiated Quaternary Deposits - Q4 mostly are fluvial deposits. They fill the eastern part
of the plain area, while in the western part of plain (former Durres marsh) they are overlaid by
marsh and marine deposits. The lower section of the Quatemary deposits is represented of inter-
calation of gravely and clayey layers. The upper section of the Quaternary deposits is represented
of clayey loam, fine sand sandy clay deposits of fluvial and marsh origin. The total thickness of
Quaternary deposits is about 100-130 m.
Marsh deposits - Q4kt, are developed over all the surface of the former Durres Marsh area. Their
maximal thickness in the centre of the former marsh is about 10-12 m, but on most of the
remaining surface of this marsh it is less then 2.0 m. Litho logically this deposits are represented
of clay and clayey loam.
Marine deposits - Q4dt, are developed along the Porto Roman Beach and Lalzy Bay. They are
represented of sandy deposits which maximal thickness is about 15-20 m.
111.5.2.2.   Hydrogeology
Durres area in general, and Porto Romano - Bishti Pales Cape area particularly, have scarce wa-
ter resource, both surface and groundwater resource. There is not any perennially flowing river
in the studied area. The only surface water of the area is temporary flow of the drainage channels
of Durres plain. As the elevation of this plain is low, its natural slope is not enough to create the
flow to the Adriatic Sea. This caused the marshland before the construction of the drainage sys-
tem the Duffes plain. All the Durres Plain is drained by a deep central drainage channel located
in the lower, middle part of this plain.
Considering the results of many drilled wells, the conglomerate layers of Rrogozhina Formation
are identified as the most important aquifer layers of Durres area (Figure 7).
Most of the deep wells are artesian (free flowing), discharge about 0.5 to 2.0 I/s. The mean val-
ues of aquifer hydraulic properties and of wells are as follow: coefficient of permeability - 2.5
m/d, coefficient of transmissibility - 110 m2/d, specific capacity of the wells - 0.6-0.8 I/s/m and
the maximal capacity of the wells is about 10 1/s.
The water quality of Rrogozhina formation aquifer is not satisfactory. The water quality of most
of artesian wells is in the limits of drinking water standards. The water is usually hard, the con-
centration of chloride and sodium are in the limit of acceptance and the concentration of iron
usually is more then the limit of drinking water standard of 0.2 mg/l.
As can be seen in the cross-section (Figure 7), in the lower section of the Quaternary deposits of
Durres plain there are encountered some gravely aquifer layers. As their water quality is poor the
groundwater of Quaternary aquifer layers is not used for the water supply purposes.
Some thin delluvium deposits at hill slope contain small groundwater resources, they have a par-
ticular implication in the life of local population of new illegal houses constructed round the
former Durres chemical factory. Innumerable dug wells were constructed for the exploitation of
the small water resources of these deposits.
Due to the poor water quality the water resources of the Rrogozhina Formation aquifer are not
used intensively. The local population is using only the free flowing wells for their water supply.
Recently some attempts are made to use the Rrogozhina Formation groundwater for centralized
water supply of the local population.
Environmental Assessment                                                       30
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
111.5.2.3.   Topsoil description
As in the case of Lezha Plain the topsoil description of Durres area is based on the field observa-
tion only and on scarce literature data.
The most wide spread topsoil types of Durres Plain are the following:
* Marsh clayey loam's deposits;
* Marsh fine sand deposits;
* Marine sandy deposits.
Below are given some preliminary average data of the main mechanical properties for the differ-
ent above mentioned soil type.
* Marsh clayey loam deposits are developed mostly in the central and in the southern part of
the Durres Plain. Some important data about these deposits are collected by the geotechnical
investigation wells drilled in the eastern periphery of Durres city. The registered maximal
thickness of the marsh clayey loam deposits is about 12 m. The loamy deposits contain also
sandy layers or lenses which thickness is usually not more then 2-3 m. These deposits are
characterized of a very low permeability, low geotechnical properties;
*  Marsh fine sand deposits are widely developed in the area of the former Durresi Marsh area.
Usually they underlay the clayey loam deposits and their thickness usually is from about 2 to
8 m. They have high salt content and low geotechnical soil properties;
*  The sandy marine deposits are developed along the Adriatic Sea shoreline and partially are
developed below the marsh deposits. Their main soil mechanical properties are evaluated as
below:
The relation of the future Durres CTW and the groundwater are favourable. The depth of the first
gravely aquifer from the ground surface is more then 50 m and it is covered by very low perme-
able layers. At such conditions the aquifer layers are protected from the eventual surface pollu-
tion infiltration.
H11.5.3. SARANDA
111.5.3.1.   Geology
Saranda is the southernmost city of Albania and it is situated on mountain slope at the Ionian
Sea. This low height mountain strip is prolonged from Saranda at the North to Ksamili coastal
area at south. The width of this mountain strip varies from less of I km to 4 km, while it's highest
peak is 232 m above sea level. East to Saranda Mountain strip is located Vurgu Plain bordering
to the south the Butrinti Lagoon.
The climate of the area is typical Mediterranean, with dry and hot summers, and wet and mild
winters. The mean annual temperature is 17.6°C. The average rainfall in Saranda Town meteoro-
logical station is 1509 mm/year, with an important precipitation period in winter (about 70%).
The main hydrological element of Saranda area is Bistrica River. Bistrica after joining the Kalasa
River in the northern sector of Vurgu Plain, flows to the south and near Cuka village, about 3 km
south to Saranda, through a man made channel, crosses the limestone mountain strip and dis-
charges into the Ionian Sea. The mean annual discharge of Bistrica River is about 20 m3/s.
Environmental Assessment                                                       31
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Geologically the Saranda mountain strip represents an anticline, which is mainly constructed of
Cretaceous limestone formation. The Vurgu Plain and Butrinti Lagoon geologically represent a
depression filled with the Paleogene, Neogene and Quaternary formations.
H1.5.3.2.   Hydrogeology
On the hydrogeological point of view, in Saranda area can be distinguished two main aquifers:
limestone karst aquifer and gravelly porous aquifer.
The Saranda limestone mountain strip represents a karst aquifer, which due to the intensive fis-
suring and karstification has a distinctly high permeability. The intensive infiltrated precipitation
in the limestone formations is short way discharged into the Ionian Sea without forming impor-
tant springs.
Mainly Quatemary fluvial deposits, which maximal thickness is about 250 m) in the southern
sector of the plain), fill up the Vurgu Plain. These deposits consist of alternated gravely and
clayey layers. The transmissibility of the gravely layers is generally high to very high, particu-
larly in the northern sector of the Vurgu Plain where it is about 8000 m2/d. The yield of the wells
varies from 10-20 I/s up to more then 100 I/s. Two wells total capacity 150 I/s located about 4-
km northeast to Saranda, near Vrioni village, are used for the city water supply.
I1I.5.4. RISK FACTORS ON SOIL AND HYDROGEOLOGY
The following hydro-geological risk of water contamination on wastewater treatment system im-
plementation have been identified:
*  Water body contamination from untreated water. The CTW in Durres, Lezhe/Shengjin
and Saranda are located in reclamation areas, with surface open drainage system and final
pumping stations (hydrovore) discharges the drained water into the Adriatic sea. In case
of non-proper function of the pumping stations the water level in the drainage channels
rises up and the water could inundate the reclamation areas, where the WWTP's are lo-
cated;
* Aquifer contamination. There is the risk of the aquifer pollution from untreated water sur-
face infiltration.
The following Impact mitigation measures have to be included in the EMP:
* The WWTP's have to be protected against any flood events by a proper floods protection
dykes;
*  In order to avoid negative impact from the CTW on the ground water it is necessary to
remove the top soil before starting civil works, and substitute it with an impervious clay
liners. Monitoring of groundwater have to be included in the EMP.
1I.6. FLORA AND FAUNA
H11.6.1.    DESCRIPTION OF HABITATS AND SPECIES
111.6.1.1.  Kune-Vaini Natural Managed Reserve
Area of Kune-Vaini (including Kune, Merxhani, Kenalla, Vaini and Ceka) represents a wetland
area of multiple ecological and economic values and uses, but faces several environmental and
management problems.
Environmental Assessment                                                       32
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
For these reasons, Kune-Vain lagoon complex is included in the Biodiversity Strategy and Ac-
tion Plan (BSAP) on the Representative Network of Protected Areas for Albania, with the identi-
fication of three zones, which reflect the naturalistic features of these areas and where specific
management procedures can be set up.
However, the lack of a reliable and consistent management policy able to combine the recovery
and conservation strategies of the existing natural resources with their exploitation in the frame
of a sustainable development of all Lezhe district, is a major problem not conveniently tackled
yet.
Ecolozical description of the Kune lazoon and Kenalla lake
The lagoon of Kune presents a very rich floristic and faunistic area. The vegetation is typical to
coastal wetland areas. The main types of the vegetation are (i) aquatic, (ii) hydro-hygrophylic,
(iii) halophyl (iv) psamophyl or sandy-dune vegetation and (v) forest vegetation.
* Aquatic vegetation is dominated by Zoostera noltii and Ruppia cirrhosa. Z. noltii is distrib-
uted more widely and gives tha main physionomy to the "Aquatic bed". R. cirrhosa is more
developed in calm and shallow waters.
*   Hydro-hygrophylic vegetation is dominated by plant comminities with the predominance of
Phragmites australis, Typha angustifolia and Scirpus maritimus.
*   Halophyl vegetation involves palnt communities addapted to high salt concentrations. Sev-
eral communities with different dominance are identified : Arthrocnemum, Juncus, Scirpus
holoschoenus, Plantago crassifolia etc
* Psamophyl or sandy-dune vegetation is usually located in the northern part of the complex
and it is dominated by Amophyla areanaria.
*   Forest vegatation covers nearly 10% of the total surface of the area. The more frequent
communities are those typical riverine forests such as Alnus glutinosa, Fraxinus angustifo-
lia, Ulmus minor, Quercus robur, Populus alba etc. Besides there are some other plant
communites that cover small patches of the forest area including Mediterranean Pine spe-
cies, scruby vegetation composed by Tamarix and Salix species.
In the different habitats (marine, estuarine, palustrine and riverine) are sheltered different verte-
brates and non-vertebrates including mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, fish, mollusks and
crustaceans.
The diversity of the species is higher compared with the other part of the ecosystem (Kune-Vain
lagoon and Kenalla lake). The micro algae biomass level indicates high quantity of phytoplank-
ton with a relatively great number of species). Some of the diatoms are determined Dinoflagel-
lates are presented in few species .
The macrobenthos of this lagoon is characterized mainly by an intense growth of Annelids, Tu-
buliferae, Hydroids and Carcinus aestuarii.
The observation of fishery catches and hypoeutectic salinity gradient divide Kune lagoon in three
main sub areas corresponding to fish species in these sub area (see Annex 10). The main fish
specie are the eurohaline species: (Sparus aurata) gilthead seabream, Dicentrarchus labrax,
Mugilidae spp., Anguilla anguilla etc.
The amphibian are represented mainly by Rana lessonae, Hyla arborea, Rana dalmatina, Triturus
cristatus, Triturus vulgaris, Rana balcanica etc.
Environmenial Assessment                                                       33
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Different kinds of reptiles, usually threatened, can be mentioned, like Sea turtle Caretta caretta
and Herman's tortoise Testudo hermanni, European Pond Terrapin Emys orbicularis, Elaphe
quatrolineata, Viper Viipera ammodytes etc.
Also this area is rich of the birds as Phalacrocorax carbo, Anas penelope, Fulica atra, Rallus
aquaticus, Gallinula chloropus, Nycticorax nycticora, Ardeola ralloids etc. Counts carried out
during the last five years have stressed the omithological importance of the area, especially on
wintering waterbirds. Based on those figures, the area has been included in the list of Important
Bird Areas for Albania.
Regarding the mammals the area registers as many as 40 species. The most common are Pipistrel-
lus pipistrellus, Mus musculus, Mustela nivalis, M putorius, Vulpes vulpes etc.
Ecological description of the Vain lagoon
The lagoon of Vain presents rich floristic and faunistic values. In the group of fauna are in-
cluded: vertebrates (mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibian, fish) and non-vertebrates (mollusks,
crustaceans).
The zooplankton was found on low quantity in general.
The lagoon of Vain has vegetation similar to the lagoon of Kune. More than half of the water
surface is covered by flooded Phragmites communis beds with Thypha latifolia, the banks are
composed of sedge communities, riparian woods of black alder galleries with Alnus glutinopsa,
Populus alba, Ulmus campestris, Fraxinus angustifolia, Salix alba and Quercus sp. which are
replaced over time by pine plantations. Maquis is composed mainly of: Tamarix parviflora,
Cornus mass, Juniperus macrocarpa, Rubus ulmifolium, Ruscus aculeatus; the herbaceous
vegetation of the marshland is characterized by Cynadon dactylon, Dactylis glomerata, Agrostis
sp., Phragmites communis, Juncus acutus, Salicorniafructicosa.
The animal community is very much similar to Kune, the norhtern part of Drin delta
111.6.1.2.   Rrushkulli-Erzeni River Outlet
The Rrushkulli-Erzeni River Outlet area is situated in Lalzi bay, the central part of the Adriatic
coast of Albania, between Rodoni cape in the north and Bishti Palles cape in the south. It is
boarded in the north and east by a hilly ridge (maximum height of 225 m), while in its south-east it
continues with the drained fields of Qerreti and Durresi, formerly saltmarshes.
The catchments area of the Lalzi bay is estimated at about 250 km 2. Some parts of the area, close
to the coast, are depressions reaching up to - 1.5 m.
They are kept dry by the actively pumping water through the pumping station near Hamalla vil-
lage. The most of the area is occupied by the agricultural land, while the once well developed hy-
grophilic flood plain forest has almost disappeared; some small spots of it are still present only
along the coastline north of Erzeni river mouth.
Sand dunes relatively well developed, halo-phyte and hygro-phyte vegetation, and a planted pine
forest can be found in this area. Waterbird and waterfowl censuses of the last years have identi-
fied this area as an important IBA (over 10000 waterbirds and wetlands birds have been counted
here). The Erzeni River Delta is important for migratory fish species breeding in freshwater.
Posidonia meadows, Posidonia oceanica, and very well developed marine communities are
found along the rocky littoral and Porto Romano Bay.
Environmental Assessment                                                         34
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Besides different natural formations in this area, the results of the human's interference in the
form of the embankment, the many draining canals and the artificial forests of the ones culti-
vated with pine alongside the coast and with poplars mainly along the flow of the Erzen river are
present.
A small part of the area is protected : Rushkulli Nature Managed Reserve. Taking into account
the complexity and ecological value of this area in the Biodiversity Strategy and action Plan
(BSAP), approved by Government of Albania on the year 2000, the whole area is proposed for
inclusion in the New Network of Contry's Protected Areas unde the category of Managed Nature
Reserve.
Ecological description of the area
The area of Rrushkull-Erzeni River outlet is originated from the alluvial sediments of the Erzeni
river, which meanders across the area.
The sub area Rrushkull-Hammalla lays in the Lalzi bay, from outlet (mouth) of Erzeni river in
the South t6 the overflow of the Tarini stream in North and in the East in some cases, it lays for
many kilometres, and it is limited from the agricultural land of the ex state agriculture farm
Sukth (Hamallaj, Rrushkull, Jube).
The terrestrial environment of this area presents these types of habitats: sand dunes, salt tolerant
vegetation, flood plain and pine forests, and wetlands/marshlands. Sand dunes occupy a belt from
1O to 50 m in width along the entire coastline.
There are two main types of the dune vegetation: Plant community dominated by Cakile maritima,
in the form of isolated spots, 4-5 m distant from each other, closer to the shoreline. Plant
community dominated by Elymus farctus, on the well developed dunes, in which apart from the
Dominant species, are present other species like; Eryngium maritimum. Echinophora spinosa,
Euphorbia paralias, etc..
Salt tolerant vegetation is mainly present in the left hand side of the Erzeni river mouth. This type
of vegetation is characterized by succulent plants like: Arthrocnemum fruticosum, A. perenne,
Salicornia europaea, Halimione portulacoides, Limonium vulgare, Inula crithmoides etc.
The dominant species are Pinus pinaster and P. halepensis. This formation is generally not so
dense and rather young.
The area contains also some rare and endangered plant species as: Quercus robur, Fraxinus
excelsior, Juniperus oxycedrus, Matthiola tricuspidata, Pancriatium maritimum, Quercus ilex,
Adiantium capillus-veneris, Butomus umbellatus, Salix triandra.
The coastal area presents the important fishing site for Mugil sp., Liza sp., Dicentrachus labrax,
Umbrina. cirrosa, Lichia amia, Sparus sp., Alosa phalax, Anguila anguila and for crustaceans
Paeneus ceraturus and for bivalves Venus galina and Donax trunculus.
The area is especially important for wintering waders and dabbling ducks. Among them is worth
mentioning the presence of Golden Plover Pluvialis squatarola, European Curlew Numenius
arquata, Little Stint Calidris alpina, Wigeon Anas penelope, Teal Anas crecca etc.
111.6.1.3.   Butrinti lake and related Wetland environment
Butrinti lake and related costal area is one of the most important coastal wetland complexes of
Albania. The main conservation value of Butrinti basin lies in the complex of habitats, which are
Environmental Assessment                                                       35
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
represented, and the degree to which these have remained undamaged by social development or
habitat degradation. The basin supports species and communities of animal and plant that are
globally rare or vulnerable. From the studies done results that Butrinti basin supports:
*   40 species of Mammals (57% of Albania), 15 of which are considered as Globally
Threatened;
*   246 species of Birds (75% of Albania) with 13 Globally Threatened species;
*   35 species of Reptiles and Amphibians (69% of Albania) with 5 Globally Threatened
species;
*   1500-2000 species of Insects (26% of Albania) with 2 species of Global Conservation
Concern;
*   300 species of Fish (85 % of Albania);
*   800-900 species of Plants (26% of Albania) with 10 species of National Conservation
Concern.
The phytoplankton population of the lagoon is abundant and mainly composed of diatoms Chea-
toceros sp., Cyclotella sp. and Peridinates Prorocentrum sp. and Peridinium sp.. The accumula-
tion of phanerogam Zostera noltii foliage is an indication of its extensive presence within the la-
goon. Balanidae are very common among Crustacea and Mytilus galloprovincialis among Mol-
luscs.
The birds seen in the area are: Larus cachinnans, L. argentatus, sparrows Passer hispaniolensis,
P. montanus on the lake. While in marshland and the mudflats at the estuary are reported marsh
harriers Circus aeruginosus, Acrocephalus scirpaceus, etc (see Annex 11).
Great concentrations of migratory birds occur in fall and winter, waders on the mudflats, saltern
and in the estuary of the channel while Anatids assemble in large colonies on the lake during the
coldest months. This area is also the richest of Albania for amphibians and reptiles. Otters have
been recorded in the lagoon.
The vegetation of the area is rich and very diverse with 800-900 plant species. The different
habitats identified include: woodland, Mediterranean maquis, dry pastures and freshwater and
saltwater marshes.
Woodland. There is only a small area of dense woodland remaining at Butrint, located on the
southern and eastern slopes of Sotires mountain and within the main archaeological site of
Buthrotum. The woodland is characterised by a vertical structure composed of 3 vegetation lev-
els were the main association is Elm Ulmus minor - Ash Fraxinus angustifolia. The dominant
species are the Elm Ulmus minor, Ash Fraxinus angustifolia, Valonian Oak Quercus robur and
White Poplar Populus alba. In specific cases, Laurel Tree Laurus nobilis and Holm Quercus ilex
prevail over the other plants. The understorey varies from dense shrubby tree heath to an open
herb.
Mile Mountain and the peninsula of Stillo are covered by sparse formations of Holm oak Quer-
cus ilex, although the damages induced by successive burnings.
Mediterranean maguis. Mediterranean maquis is located mainly on the Ksamili peninsula (in-
cluding the Ksamili islands) and in the hills to the southeast of Lake Butrint. It is dominated by
the association of Quercetea ilicis. The most common species is Quercus coccifera, that covers
50 -60% of the total area. Other species present include Q. ilex (well preserved on Ksamili is-
Environmental Assessment                                                       36
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
lands), Fraxinus ornus, Pistacia lentiscus, Phlomis fruticosa, Colutea arborescens, Phillyrea
media etc.
Dry pastures. Such areas occur mainly on the southern part of the complex, especially on the
Vrina plain. The vegetation is adapted to high concentrations of salt, the continuous presence of
water in winter, summer drought etc. The Arthrocnemum sp. followed by Juncus sp. and
Tamarix sp. dominates the halophytic vegetation.
Freshwater marshes.Typical marsh vegetation is found in the northem part of Lake Butrint
(northern reed beds) and in the western part of Lake Bufi. The dominant species are Phragnzites
australis followed by Typha angustifolia. Other species adapted to water are Scirpus lacustris
and S. maritimus.
Saltmarshes.Saltmarshes occur as a narrow fringe along the south shore of lake butrint, at the
mouth of vivari channel and river pavllo. the vegetation is dominated by glassworts with patches
of tamarisk and sea aster.
The actual high species richness is explained by the high diversity of natural and artificial
habitats such as seawaters, seashore, rocky islands, river, coastal wetlands, reed beds, forest,
rocky areas and agriculture land. All those natural values make Butrinti an area of high
ecotouristic possibilities and the development of ecotourism is the best way for a sustainable use
of those resources. Despite its current natural (biological and landscape) richness, the area has
been and still is seriously threatened by the drainage of large parts of its wetlands (1100 ha were
already lost in the 1960s) and the continuous presence of overgrazing, logging illegal hunting
and fishing, over development of aquaculture, uncontrolled tourism and human disturbance.
The Butrinti Lake area is defined on the Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (BSAP) on the
Representative Network of Protected Areas for Albania with two zones. In according to the
BSAP the proposed protected area Cuka Channel - Ksamili Bay and Islands would be man-
aged mainly for landscape/seascape protection and recreation, the aim would be to maintain the
natural conditions of the landscapes, to protect the biological diversity and to sustain the harmo-
nious interaction of the men with this environment. This area includes terrestrial and marine ar-
eas, which are public or private property where varies activities, such agriculture, fishing and
forestry are undertaken and also the next constructed wetland will respect this environment, be-
ing as integral part of this area. Regarding proposed protected area Butrinti Lake and its Sur-
roundings would be managed mainly for the sustainable use of the natural resources of this area.
At last but not the least Butrint has been declared recenty a Ramsar Site for Albania. Its inclusion
was based on several characteristics such as the high biodiveristy values, the very high number
of Globally Threatened Species, the unique coexistance between natuyre and histroy etc.
General situation
In addition to the loss of large wetlands part by land reclamation in the past, the quality of envi-
ronment of the three areas continues to deteriorate and the main problems consist:
*  The lack of an integrated, sustainable management strategy based in multiple use and con-
servation of the natural resources of the area,
*  illegal excessive cutting of trees for fuel or forest degradation,
*  the input of the polluted river (contaminated mainly by sewage disposed upstream) espe-
cially for Erzeni,
*   the uncontrolling (ill,gal) hunting, and illegal fishing (fishing with dynamite)
Environmental Assessment                                                        37
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
* very high levels of human disturbance.
H11.6.2. CHARACTERISTICS OF THE SITUATION OF THREATENED SPECIES
The presence of endangered species in the project area has been considered as indicator of the
richness of the ecosystems in terms of biodiversity and an objective criteria to evaluate the
significance of an ecosystem at global level. UICN, the World Conservation Unit has prepared
lists of the endangered species (with particular reference to the vertebrates), providing an
opportune ranking, considering the rarity and the threats -Source Red Data Book IUCN, 1996).
Table 111.6-List of the categories prepared by IUCN for the threatened species
Category and acronym                        Notes
Extinct - EX                    Not utilised in this work
Extinct in the wild - EW             Not utilised in this work
Critically Endangered - CR    A species is considered CR when the risk of
extinction is very high in the immediate future
Endangered - EN           A species is considered CR when the risk of
extinction is very high in the next future
Vulnerable - VU          A species is considered VU when the risk of
extinction is high at medium term
Lower risk - LR         A species is considered LR when its conserva-
tion status presents some risk
Data deficient - DD                Not utilised in this work
Not evaluated - NE                 Not utilised in this work
A project addressed to the improvement of water quality will provide a positive impact at global
level in case of presence of an endangered species (categories CR, EN, VU) taking into account
that water quality represents one of the key factors on the survival of the endangered species in
the water habitats.
This evaluation process has been implemented utilising birds, reptiles and mammalians as
indicator species, considering the lack of data availability for other vertebrates and their
significance as indicators (key species). Appendix A provides the list of endangered species for
each ecosystem, Appendix B the evaluation of each considered ecosystem.
Table III.7-List of endangered species observed in the project areas
Insects
1.    Cerambyx cerdo - VU (vulnerable)
2.     Lycaena dispar - LRnt (Lesser Risk nearly threatened)
Amphibians
I.     Triturus cristatus - LRcd (Lesser Risk conservation dependent)
2.    Hyla arborea - LRnt
Environmental Assessment                                                            38
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Reptiles
1.     Caretta caretta - EN (Endangered)
2.     Dermochelys coriacea - EN
3.     Testudo marginata - LRlc (Lesser Risk less concern)
4.     Testudo hermani - LRnt
5.     Emys orbicularis - LRnt
6.    Elaphe situla - DD (Data Deficient)
Birds
1.    Phalacrocorax pygmeus - LRnt
2.    Pelecanus crispus - VU
3.    Aythya nyroca - VU
4.     Oxyura leucocephala - VU
5.    Haliaeetus albicilla - VU
6.    Aquila clanga - VU
7.    Falco naumanni - VU
8.     Circus macrourus - LRnt
8.     Gallinago media - LRnt
9.     Numenius tenuirostris - CR (Critically Endangered)
Mammals
1.    Rhinolophus blasii - LRnt
2.     Rhinolophus euryale - VU
3.    Rhinolophusferrumequinum - LRcd
4.     Miniopterus schreibersi - LRnt
5.    Myotis capaccinii - VU
6.    Myotis emarginatus - VU
7.    Myotis myotis - LRnt
8.     Sciurus vulgaris - LRnt
9.     Glis glis - LRnt
10.   Microtus (Pitymys)felteni - LRnt
11.   Microtus thomasi - LRnt
12.   Mus spicilegus (abbotti) - LRnt
13.   Canis lupus-VU
14.   Lutra lutra - VU
14.   Monachus monachus - CR
15.   Stenella coeruleoalba - LRcd
16.
H1.6.3.      RISK FACTORS ON FLORA AND FAUNA
The constructed wetlands represent a new natural habitat for flora and fauna and therefore
increase the biodiversity of the area, with a potential increasing of the protection for endangered
species and animals. Also, they represent a buffer zone for the natural wetlands in their
proximity.
The CTW construction phase have a potential negative impacts on biodiversity, habitats and rare
species. It is possible for the construction work to affect certain rare species particularly by dis-
turbance during the breeding period.
The Environmental Management Plan will include a comprehensive monitoring program for po-
tential dangers to the ecosystem, and environmental management guidelines for contractors with
good construction practices to prevent, minimize or mitigate environmental damage.
Environmental Assessment                                                            39
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
11H.7. CULTURAL PROPERTY
No impact on any cultural property is expected in the sites selected for the project implementa-
tion.
The Environmental Management Plan and the Construction contract(s) will include appropriate
instructions regarding cultural properties and their preservation measures. Before the construc-
tion government's attention have to be drawn specifically to that aspects and appropriate agen-
cies, NGO's or university departments have to be consulted. During construction activities the
Supervision of works will verify that these measures are being implemented.
111.8. HEALTH RISK
1H1.8.1. MOSQUITOES AND THEIR CONSEQUENCES
The mosquitoes from the Anopheles genus transmit the four types of plasmodia, which are the
causative agents of human malaria. They are Plasmodium vivax, P. malariae, P. ovale, and P.
falciparum and cause the tertian, the quartan, the atypical tertian, and the tropical malaria respec-
tively. Eight types of malaria transmitting mosquitoes were registered in Albania.
The species composition of mosquitoes will not change following the construction of the
CTW's. Mosquitoes (included which could be potential transmitters of malaria plasmodia) are
encountered within the project area in great numbers even now.
Neither of the situations aforesaid does depend on the surface area of the recovered marshlands,
nor will be facilitated by the activities related to the construction of the CTW. The recovery of
the CTWs will not increase the risk of malaria under any circumstances.
A mosquito control methodology have to be identified by the Consultant during the Final Design
stage and included in the EMP. The actions for mosquitoes control, should be coordinated with
the Ministry of Health authorities.
The following mitigation measures have been included in the EMP and will be considered dur-
ing the Final Design stage.
Depth of water. The mosquito larvae do not like deep water. As a general rule, larvae are rarely
found in open water deeper than 30-40 cm. Than the CTW water level have to be > 50-60 cm;
Vegetation around Margin. Mosquitos larvae will use vegetaion growing out of or into water for
shelter from predators. The ideal to minimise mosquito colonisation is to have bare margin all
oround the CTW not less than 20/30 m;
Slope of Bank. In keeping with the aim of having as much deep water possible, the slope of the
bank under the water margins sholud be steep, preferably grater than 30° or 3/1 (horzontal to ver-
tical).
Presence of Mosquito predators. Mosquito larvae are good source of food for fish and a variety
of insects such as dragonfly, damselfy and mayfly mymphs and water beetle adults and larvae;
Mosquito control agents. There are products for mosquito control which are environmentally
sound. These products include: Bti, which is a fermentation product of the bacteria Bacillus
thuringiensis var israelensis; s-Methoprene. Bti, a growth regulator.
The above actions for mosquitoes control (i.e. Introduction of mosquito predators, or use Mosquito con-
trol agents) , have should be coordinated with the Ministry of Health authorities.
Environmental Assessment                                                       40
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
1H1.8.2. ODOURS RISK
Odours emanating from wetlands are likely to occur when waters begin to stagnate.Two types of
odour can be generated:
* Chemical odour from the formation of gases as a result of organic decomposition;
* Decomposition of certain cyanobacteria.
A constructed wetland that is well designed, operated and maintained should not pose a signifi-
cant oudors risk; The cyanobacteria have a strong odour upon decomposition and this can be
avoided by maintaining the wetland in operational condition.
A oudors control methodology have to be identified by the Consultant during the Final Design
stage and included in the EMP.
The following mitigation measures have been included in the EMP and will be considered dur-
ing the Final Design stage:
* Buffer zone all around the CTW plant of not less than 40 m wide;
* Sustain constant operational condition of the CTW to reduce the impact of cyanobacteria decom-
position.
In order to ensure the proper operation of the facility and minimize odor risk the Operation &
Maintenace outline of the CTWs are included in Annex 6. The above mentioned outline will
further detailed during the final design stage.
111.8.3. HEALTH RISK FOR THE LIVESTOCK
The health risk for the livestock from the construction of the CTW's is practically zero.
111.8.4. HEALTH RISK FACTORS DURING THE BUILDING PROCESS
During the realization of the building projects:
*  Atmospheric air and working environmental pollution with increased concentrations, dust
and other building materials with a marked effect upon the upper respiratory system, the
eyes, and the skin;
*  Exhaust-pipe gases and end-products from the destruction of motor lubricating oils of the
building machines;
* Additional noise loading;
*  Risk of accidents and damages;
*  Inappropriate stocking of building materials.
It is necessary to abide to the instructions for safety of work and to keep strictly the technological
and labor discipline in order to avoid the risk for human health.
Environmental Assessment                                                       41
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
IV. ANALYSIS OF THE ALTERNATIVES WITH REGARD TO THEIR EFFECT ON
THE ENVIRONMENT, ANALYSIS OF THE "NO PROJECT" ALTERNATIVE IN-
CLUDED.
IV.1. ZERO ALTERNATIVE
The zero alternative of no project will increase the risks of public health degradation; decrease of
high biodiversity values, and decline of local economy.
(i)   Health risks
Up to now, Albania has no waste water treatment and all the waste waters usually are poured in
channels and from there they go to rivers or directly to the sea. As described above, the waste
waters of Lezh go through channels to river Drin and from there to the sea. In Durres the waste-
waters go directly to the sea at the location of Porto Romano as well as in other points near to the
tourist resorts. In Saranda the waste waters use to pour in the sea just in front of Saranda. A new
project under progress aims to send the waters in Cuka channel, the channel that is also the outlet
of River Bistrica.
All the three areas are intensively used by tourist activities and it is obvious that the nearby pres-
ence of waste waters might cause several health problems. Unfortunately there is no persistent
monitoring of water quality in the three sites. Nevertheless, specialists believe that the waters
have a very high microbial content.
(ii) Degradation of biodiversity values
Untreated wastewaters are rich in organic compounds that would increase the eutrophication of
water levels. Eutrophication is the process by which waters gradually age and become more pro-
ductive. Humans, through their various cultural activities, have greatly accelerated this process.
Cultural or anthropogenic "eutrophication" is water pollution caused by excessive plant nutri-
ents (primarily phosphorus, nitrogen, and carbon). Runoff from agricultural fields, field lots, ur-
ban lawns, and golf courses is one source of these nutrients. Untreated domestic sewage is an-
other major source. Sewage is a particular source of phosphorus to waters when detergents con-
tained large amounts of phosphates. The phosphates acted as water softeners to improve the
cleaning action, but they also proved to be powerful stimulants to algal growth when they were
washed or flushed into lakes. The excessive growth, or"blooms", of algae promoted by these
phosphates changes the water quality. These algae cloud the water making it difficult for larger
submerged aquatic vegetation (SAV) to get enough light. The SAV may dieback reducing avail-
able habitat of aquatic animals. When the algae themselves eventually die they decompose. Dur-
ing decomposition dissolved oxygen is removed from the water. Lowered oxygen levels make it
difficult for other aquatic organisms to survive. Usually the algal blooms lead to oxygen deple-
tion and resultant fish and other animals kills. Beaches and shorelines are in such cases fouled by
masses of rotting, stinking blue green "algae" (Cyanophytes or Cyanobacteria).
(iii) Degradation of local economy
When eutrophication becomes a problem beaches and shorelines are in such cases fouled by
masses of rotting, stinking blue green "algae" (Cyanophytes or Cyanobacteria). It is obvious that
tourist, the basis of the local economy, will try to avoid such places
Furthermore there is no serious plans for the economic use of lands occupied by the proposed
treatment system. The CTW lands wetlands cannot be used for sustainable agricultural practices
due to the soil salinity. Only limited grazing is possible (extensive livestock breeding) and ex-
Environmental Assessment                                                       42
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
traction of reed and wood, which would not have a significant socio-economic effect for the lo-
cal population. At present these areas are not being used for these purpose.
In conclusion, the zero alternative would cause restriction of any large investment in the areas
(i.e. tourism, base infrastructure), with the related high indirect economic impacts. Such CTW
project would lead to rejuvenation of the area, creation of new jobs, supporting of and initialisa-
tion of sustainable economic practices.
IV.2. CTW ALTERNATIVES TECHNOLOGIES
A analysis was conducted by the Consultant of several technical alternative to realize the con-
struction of a low cost ecologically based wastewater treatment system. The following "natural"
treatment solution has been evaluated and compared: Free Water Surface type (FWS), Subsur-
face Flow type (SFS), and VFS (Vegetated filter strips)
Tab.IV. I summarizes the different types and characteristics of constructed vegetated natural pol-
lution defence means, considered to achieve both the water treatment and biodiversity goals in
the project locations.
Tab.IV. I -"Natural "wastewater treatment systems multicriteria analysis"
Wetland-FWS type        Wetland-SFS type               VFS
(Free water surface)     (Subsurface flow)    (Vegetatedfilter strips)
Application     Municipal sewage:      Municipal sewage:      Agricultural area: Nutrients
Secondary and/or AWT   Secondary or AWT       and pesticide NPS pollution
Performances     TSS good, BOD good, FC  TSS very good, BOD good,  Partial protection, reducing eu-
very good, N fairly good, P  FC very good, N good, P  trophication risk
limited               limited
%  removal     TSS 80%                TSS 80-90%              Not quantifiable, only for
BOD 80%                BOD 70-80%             NPSP
FC >95%                FC >95%
N 65-70%               N 70%
P50%                   P50%
Increment of     Strong contribution to habi- Insignificant    Little significance, but riparian
Biodiversity    tat and biological diversity                  and shoreline protection
Need of Area     High                   High                   Fixed amount of surface
Specific area   2-3 m2/lnhab.Eq        3-5 m2/ Inhab.Eq.
Impacts       Mosquitoes and rodents, po- None              None
tential health risk
Cost        Medium                 High (3040% more than  Low
FWS)
According the results of the multicriteria analysis, by comparing pollution abatement and habitat
diversity effects against land surface occupation and potential impacts, the Free Water Surface
type (FWS), has been selected for all the coastal cities included in the project. The FWS method
has been selected for the following considerations:
* Less cost of construction and management than SFS;
* Require less area extension, and this aspect is fundamental for project coastal cities of Dur-
res, Lezhe and Saranda, where the availability of undeveloped land is limited;
Environmental Assessment                                                                       43
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
* More increasing of biodiversity than SFS (SFS not increase at all the biodiversity);
* Less problem of management due to the suspended solid concentration: the SFS type need of
a continuous control due to the risk of blocked.
IV.3. CTW ALTERNATIVES LOCATIONS
The wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) alternatives location have been studied according the
following considerations:
* adequacy of the site to accommodate present and future needs and absence of physical con-
straints;
* proximity to available sites for discharging treated wastewater and/or effluent re-use system;
* optimisation of pumping requirements;
*   unused and public state owned lands for the proposed sites (according cadaster maps all the
WWTP alternative have been located in Public State property);
* not proximity to town and people.
As stated in the previous chapters the coastal cities of Durres, Lezhe, Saranda and Shengjin do
not have any wastewater treatment facilities. This causes a major public health risk and pollution
of aquatic environment. The implementation of WWTP's has therefore high priority in all the
above mentioned municipalities. The WWTP's description of the altemative locations for each
coastal cities are fully described in the following Tab.IV.2.
Tab.IV.2-CTW's Alternative locations
Coastal  Alt.                            Alternative description
cities  No
Durres       Two main alternatives for CTW's locations have been identified both in the Durres for-
mer marshland:
1    *  Located in the former large fish ponds plant close to the new urbanization area;
2    *   Located in the Porta Romana area close to the sea shore of Lalzit bay, at 8 km from
the new urbanization area of Durres
Lezhe        The main critical factor influencing the alternatives identification is the lack of available
area for the CTW. Three main alternatives for CTW's locations have been identified:
I    *  Located in "Ishulli I Sengjinit" near the Merxhani Lagoon. The area is free from
civil settlements and moreover the agriculture activity is not exploited, due to the
high salinity content of the soil;
2    *  Located in Ishulli I Sengjinit on the right left of the active channel of Drinit river,
between the new Tirana/Lezhe road under construction and Drinit out-let in the sea;
3    *  Located in "Ishulli I Lezhes" downstream of the Lehze town on the left of the active
channel of Drinit river;
4    *   Located in "Ishulli I Sengjinit" near the Merxhani Lagoon. The area is free from
civil settlements and moreover there is no agriculture activity.
Saranda       Three main alternatives for CTW's locations have been identified:
I    *  Located on the right bank of Cuka Channel, between the river bed and Cuka town;
2    *  Located on the left bank of the Cuka Channel, between the river and the existing
protection dike;
3    *     Located on the left bank of the Cuka beyond the existing river protection dike.
4         Located on the left bank of the Cuka beyond the existing river protection dike
closer to the Butrinti Lake border.
Environmental Assessment                                                                     44
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
A multicriterial analysis was conducted of several alternative to the proposed WWTP locations
for the three project areas, including the no-WWTP construction alternative. The no-construction
alternative was found to be nonviable from the health risk and environmental point of view.
The multicriterial analysis was conducted taking into account the following issues: environ-
mental impacts, project costs, local conditions, institutional, training and monitoring require-
ments, hydro geological and health risks.
In particular the environmental impacts have been considered in terrns of:
* improvement/decrease of water quality;
* pollution of waterbed;
* soil contamination associated with the production of constructed wetland sludge's;
* lost of natural habitats, of endangered and migrant species.
The project costs include the capital costs (associated with the constructed wetland building)
and the operating costs (associated with the constructed wetland management).
For the Local conditions, particular attention has been paid both to the availability of Public
land where to realise the constructed wetlands and a preliminary opinion of the local stake-
holders. For the availability Public State land property two conditions have been identified by the
Consultant: (i) completed State Property, (ii) State Property rented by a private operator.
Subsequently, a Public Consultation Process, including workshops sessions, were held under the
auspices of Municipality interested on the project. Institutional authorities local stakeholders, so-
cial groups, representatives, NGO's and other associations were included in the consultation
process. The Public Consultation Process results are summarized in following chap.VIII.
Covering the Institutional requirements, we have examined the availability of local authorities
to release the authorisation for the wetland works.
The Training requirements concern the needs of the Albanian personnel (managers and work-
ers) to be trained in order to optimise the management of the constructed wetlands. The Moni-
toring requirements focus on the suitability to implement monitoring systems in order to evalu-
ate continuously the performance of the constructed wetlands to improve the water quality.
Finally the consultant has evaluated the risks in terms of human health (associated with the
presence of not treated wastewater close human settlements) and of hydro-geological threats
associated with floods.
IV.4. PROJECT ALTERNATIVES SELECTION
The "Environmental and Socio-Economic Quality Index (QI)" for each proposed altemative lo-
cation have been evaluated according the multi-criteria issues (see Annex 3). In order to optimise
the allocation of resources particular attention should be paid to the very high value of the qual-
ity index (IQ) for Alternative 2 and 1 in Durres, which reflect the relevance of the project inter-
vention in terms of public health and environment (see Annex 3 Tab.3.7). The Alternative I
seems to be the more opportune to realize taking into consideration the fully land State owner-
ship and lack of use. The Quality Index presents also very high values Alternative 3 and 4 in
Saranda, taking into account the relevance of the health and environmental context (in the Ionian
sea, between Corfu and Saranda cost, lives a small population of monk seal, an endangered spe-
Environmental Assessment                                                      45
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
cies): the Alternative 4 seems to be the more opportune to realize taking into consideration the
fully land State ownership and lack of use. Alternatives 2 and 4 in Lezhe/Shengiin should be im-
plemented, but the relevance of intervention in terms of public health and environment is not
comparable with the Durres and Saranda projects. The Alternative 4 seems to be the more oppor-
tune to realise taking into consideration the fully land State ownership and lack of use.
Table IV.3 highlights the best alternatives for each intervention area and reports also the practi-
cable/not practicable alternatives taking into account the Environmental and Socio-Economic
Quality Index (QI) " values (see Annex 3 table 3.7).
Table IV.3-Selection of the best altematives
Area       Alternative I  Alternative 2  Alternative 3  Alternative 4  Alternative 0
Durres      To be selected  Praticable   N/A                      No practicable
Lezhe/Shengjin   Praticable   Praticable  No practicable  To be selected  No practicable
Saranda     No practicable  Practicable  Praticable  To be selected  No practicable
According the results of the EIA the followings alternative has been selected.
Durres:              the EIA support the idea to locate the WWTP in the former fish ponds
area, as provided in Alternative 1.
Lezhe/Shnegjin:      the EIA support the idea to locate the WWTP, as is provided for in Al-
ternative 4.
Saranda:             The EIA support the idea to locate the WWTP in the Saranda area, as
provided in Alternative 4.
IV.5. MEASURES FOR WWTP CONSTRUCTION
The engineering Final Design and the execution plants of the different construction works must
be well considered in relation to the already existing engineering infrastructure-canals, dykes,
pumping stations, roads, existing buildings, drained areas and their farming, as well as the inter-
ests of the local population and different organizations.
The Lezhe WWTP areas is interested by the Drint flood. The WWTP have to be protected by a
protection, to avoid the plant embankment overtopping and Drint water contamination by un-
treated water.
Areas allotted for the WWTP construction need to be cleaned and purified from household and
construction waste - sections polluted with pesticides, fertilizers, petroleum products, vegetation
material, etc.
Cleaning of the canals remaining in operation during the new developments from precipitation
and dead organic material.
It is also necessary that before launching of construction works and flooding, the humus layer of
the vegetation areas be removed, and preserved for later farming needs.
Environmental Assessment                                                          46
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
V.    MONITORING PROPOSAL
The Ministry of Environment (MoE) is a competent authority in the management and monitoring
of the actions aimed at environment protection-legislation, strategies, policy, international pro-
jects and programs, monitoring and supervision, regulation of the activity in the private and state
sector.
Regional Inspections of Environment gather information and perform supervisory functions in
relation to the requirements of ecological legislation/laws for the different environment compo-
nents.
A monitoring program is already included in the Project Budget. In Annex 5 MoE Strengthening
monitoring and enforcement capacity programme is attached.
An CTW Operation & Maintenance and Monitoring plan will be detailed by Consultant during
the Final Design stage. The O&M plan will describes the procedures for operation and ongoing
maintenance and monitoring actions to ensure the wetland and the associated facilities perform
to an acceptable standard, and the design objectives are met. To ensure the satisfactory function-
ing and the sustainability of the wetland system some basic monitoring actions have to be in-
cluded by the Consultant in the O&M and Monitoring plan. The principles of the CTW O&M
and Monitoring plan are suggested in Annex 6.
V.1. AIR
Harmful emissions over the emission limit values are not expected for said area. It is important
that after realization of the sites the possibility for monitoring concerning the air component be
considered more precisely and profoundly, although no negative impact of the sites on this com-
ponent is expected.
V.2. WATER
The wetlands will be flooded to a certain quota. This entails measuring and supervision of:
* quotas of the water level at certain locations within the wetlands;
* inflow quantity of water to the WWTP;
* outflow from the WWTP.
Measurement locations will be determined according to the alternative chosen.
Introduction of auto-monitoring in relation to the quality of the waters when entering and exiting
the wetlands. A water analysis program connected to the biogenetic elements, and registering of
the degree of reduction and catchments in the wetlands.
At a permanent inflow a short-term monitoring should be performed of the indices: water quan-
tity, temperature, electric conductivity, pH, BPK5, HPK, HB, total nitrogen, including ammo-
nium, nitrate, and organic; total phosphorus, including soluble phosphates.
In rare case of pollution signals monitoring of the specific indices: metal ions, petroleum prod-
ucts, etc.
In case of still water, a monthly registering of the indices for organic pollution and biogenic ele-
ments and sulphides content (hydrogen sulphide).
Annual examination of the river bed alluvia/mantles.
Environmental Assessment                                                     47
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Introduction of a hydro biological monitoring.
Use of the data from the national monitoring stations.
V.3. EFFLUENT WATER QUALITY
The monitoring of effluent quality and compliance with Albanian Standards are the responsibil-
ity of MoE. At present, no detailed legislation on specific standards for domestic sewage dis-
charges into surface waters has been enacted yet in Albania, but a "Wastewater Quality Law" is
under discussion on Parliament. Therefore only international regulations and limits for the typi-
cal wastewater concentrations to be attained, will be taken into account for comparisons. In the
Tab. V.1 and V.2 a summary of international best practices (directives) related to urban domestic
discharges in surface waters are shown. The adoption of international best practices sewage lim-
its are recommended.
Tab.V.1- International Best Practices Environmental Guidelines-Domestic sewage limits (sum-
mary)
Pollutant Parameter     Limit
Biochemical oxygen de-
mand                50
BOD5 (mg/I)
Chemical oxygen demand
COD (mg/A)            20
Phosphorous (mg/I)       2.0
Total suspended solids     so
TSS (mg/l)
Oil and grease         10
Heavy metals, total      10
Ammonia              10
PH                6-9
Less than 400
Coliforms    ~NPN/100mI
Coli forms       (NPN-Most Prob-
able number) _
V.2-EC Reguirements for urban discharges in surface waters (summary)
Limit     Sensitive
Pollutant Parameter     (mi        wate
(mg/,)     waters
Biochemical oxygen de-                < 25
mand               < 25
BOD5 (mg/l)
Total suspended solids    <3<5
TSS (mg/I)           <35
<2 mg/l
No gnera re- for I10-1I0,000 pe
Total Phosphorous (mg/1)  No general re-  <r mg/l for
>100,000 pe
<15 mg/l
for 10-000p
Total N          No general re-  -0,000 pe
quirement  <10 mg/l for
I >100,000 pe
Environmental Assessment                                                         48
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
The compliance monitoring should characterise the quality of the effluent well enough to evalu-
ate its likely impact on the receiving water. Situations will vary but compliance monitoring
should at least determine seasonal variations in the concentration of: BOD, suspended solids, dis-
solved oxygen, temperature, electrical conductivity, pH, total nitrogen, total phosphorus, and
same indicator measure of pathogens(Ecoli), Flow, ammonium, filterable reactive phosphorus
and nitrate monitoring may also be required.
V.4. FLORA AND FAUNA
It is important to choose such species whose population status has been followed for the last 10-
15 years at the least. Such species are:
* Aquatic Mollusks
* Birds-Chlidonias hybridus, Tachybaptus ruficollis, Fulica atra, Ixobrichus minutus, Botau-
rus stellaris and Aythya nyroca.
* Mammals-Lutra (Lutra lutra),
* Amphibians-Several species of Green Frogs
*   medical leech, some species dragonfly, zooplankton;
*   Plants-White Water Lily Nymphaea alba and Yellow Water Lily Trapa natans, Common
reed Phragmites communis.
The species are selected in such a way as to cover the largest possible number of biotopes in the
WWTP sites.
We suggest that monitoring should comprise of two phases: an initial stage of inventory, before
beginning of activity for construction and monitoring of changes in the ichthyofauna state during
activity performance.
Here monitoring is flexible and performed within short terms, and is closely connected with the
activities carried out. In case of activity, which could cause fast changes in the environment, the
impact of which is unknown, monitoring is carried out parallel to them, and the moment any
negative impact is registered, they are terminated, and new altematives must be looked for. In
case of activity with negligible impact, monitoring is performed three times a month during the
active season and once a month during winter.
V.5. MONITORING RESPONSIBILITIES
Monitoring       Ministry of Environment                Water Company
Items
Air           MoA Regional Inspector
Water (in/out-  Included in the WWTP Operation &  Included in the WWTP Operation & Maintenance
flow)       Maintenance Manual (Annex 6).            Manual (Annex 6).
Effluent quality Included in the WWTP Operation & Maintenance Manual (Annex 6).Carried out by the
Water Company and reviewed by-the Ministry of Environment
Flora & Fauna      MoA Regional Inspector
Environmental Assessment                                                         49
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
VI. CONCLUSIONS REGARDING THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESS-
MENT
1.    Hydro-geological risk. (i) water body contamination for potential flooding caused by
lack of proper functioning of existing surface drainage system; (ii) risk of the aquifer pollution
from untreated water surface infiltration, (iii) risk of sludge disposal contamination.
Impact mitigation measures: (i) the CTW have to be protected by a flood protection dyke; (ii)
removal of top soil before starting civil works, and substitute it with an impervious clay liners to
avoid negative impact on the ground water;(iii) procedures for sludge removal and disposal will
be included in the Environmental Management Plan (EMP).
2. Impacts of the construction phase on biodiversity, habitats and rare species. It is possi-
ble for the construction work to affect certain rare species particularly by disturbance during the
breeding period.
Impact mitigation measures: (i) An Environmental Management Plan (EMP), including moni-
toring program for potential dangers to the ecosystem, and environmental management guide-
lines for contractors with good construction practices to prevent, minimize or mitigate environ-
mental damage is attached in Table VI.2
3. Health risk-increased population of mosquitoes. Although no significant increase in
mosquitoes in the three areas is expected. There is a very low risk of malaria.
Impact mitigation measures: (i) Elaboration of a mosquito management plans for the three areas
using a combination of biological and chemical control measures as described in chapter III 8.1;
(ii)-creation all around the WWTP sites a buffer zone wide not less than 40 m, with 30/20 m of
bare strips and close to the WWTP fence a tree belts 5/10 m wide with autochthonous tree spe-
cies plantation. (iii) Sustain constant operational condition of the CTW according the O&M CTW plan
and monitoring attached in Annex 6.
4. Social risk associated to odours emanating from wetlands when water begin to stag-
nate.
Impact mitigation measures: (i) Elaboration of a odours plans for the three areas using a proper
water control measures to avoid the purification process as described in chapter III 8.2. (ii)-
creation all around the WWTP sites a buffer zone wide not less than 40 m; (iii) Sustain constant
operational condition of the CTW according the O&M CTW plan and monitoring attached in Annex 6.
5. Impact of the silt clay or clayey sand material extraction for CTW embankments or
deposition of excavation spoils.
Impact mitigation measures: (i) An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) will be prepared
prior to appraisal, including a comprehensive guidelines for contractors with good construction
practices to prevent, minimize or mitigate environmental damage. These requirements will be
enforced by the Supervision of Works during construction.
Environmental Assessment                                                       50
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Table VI. 1 :Significant (or Potentially Significant) Issues for CTW construction
Issue                  Location                              Impact Description                      Mitigation Measure
1. Hydro-geological risk      Durres, Lezhe,      It is possible the water body contamination from untreated water or    I
Saranda             from the WWTP sludge removal and disposal.
2. Impacts of the construction  Durres, Lezhe,    It is possible for the construction work to affect certain rare species par-  2
phase on biodiversity, habitats  Saranda          ticularly by disturbance during the breeding period.
and rare species
3. Health risk                Durres, Lezhe,      No significant increase of the number of mosquitoes is expected after  3
Saranda             the WWTP construction. The risk of malaria is practically non-existent.
4. Risk of odours             Durres, Lezhe,      We consider the risk of negative impact of the odours emanating stag-  4
Saranda             nate waters.
5. Impact of the deposition of  Durres, Lezhe,    In all cases there will be excess soil, organic matter, construction waste  5
excavation spoils             Saranda             etc., requiring removal from the wetlands and disposal.
Environmental Assessment                                                                                                        5
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Table VI.2 Environnemental Management Plan
#Mitigation Measure                  Phase         Institutional Responsibility       Cost (USD)
1.1 Elaboration of a manual for sustainable management of the Operation  Management bodies of protected areas  130,000.00 $
water regimes in the wetlands, such as procedures in the event  together with MoE.                To be included as in the
of accidental pollution, flood, sharp changes in water levels,                                   ToR for the preparation of
floods, consideration of the breeding requirements of birds,                                     the protected areas man-
provision of optimal treatment capacity etc.                                                      agement plans (i.e. Kune
Vaini Management Plant).
1.2 Elaboration of a proper engineering Final Design to avoid the Detail design Consultant companies in charge of de-
WWTP untreated water contamination including: flood pro-       tailed design and bidding documents of
tection dyke; removal of top soil before starting civil works,  WWTP construction
and substitute it with an impervious clay liners to avoid nega-
tive impact on the ground water
1.3 Elaboration of a proper engineering Final Design of the Detail design Consultant companies in charge of de-
WWTP sludge disposal, and elaboration of a proper sludge       tailed design and bidding documents of
removal O&M plan to avoid water contamination.                  WWTP construction
1.4 Establishment of a comprehensive monitoring program for Detail design MoA, and Consultant companies re-  100,000.00$
potential dangers to the wetland ecosystem, such as bioac-     sponsible for detailed design and bid-  Included in MoE
cumulation, avian botulism and other avian diseases, vector     ding documents of WWTP construction Strengthening monitoring
problems, invasion of non-native plants and animals, debris                                      and enforcement capacity
accumulation.                                                                                          programme
2.1 Elaboration of recommendation for biodiversity conservation Detail design MoA, and Consultant companies re- Included MoE Strengthen-
during the construction phase                                  sponsible for detailed design and bid-  ing monitoring and en-
ding documents of CTW construction  forcement capacity pro-
gramme (Item 1.4).
3.1 Elaboration of a mosquito and odours management plan  Detail design Environmental expert of the Consultant
and MoE
Environmnental Assessment                                                                                                52
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Mitigation Measure                    Phase          Institutional Responsibility        Cost (USD)
4.1 Elaboration of a odours management plan               Detail design Environmental expert of the Consultant
and MoE
5.1 Selection of suitable landfills for disposal of waste from the  Detail design MoA, and Consultant companies in
construction phase                                                charge of detailed design and bidding
documents of CTW construction
5.2 Above recommendations to be included in construction con-  Construction Supervision of work and Contractor
tract provisions/clauses
6   Drawing up of a Technical design of the three cities main  Detail design Consulting companies             To be define
sewer to collect-the wastewater to the CTW sites.
Environmental Assessment                                                                                                     53
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Table VI.3: Environnemental Management Plan
Monitoring Activities                      Institutional Responsibility            Cost (USD)
I   Local Integrated Environmental Monitoring (LIEM), includ-  Management bodies of protected areas to-  Included in component 1
ing water quality, sediment quality parameters and biological gether with MoE, consultant companies.
indicators with emphasis on fish monitoring; LIEM will com-
ply with International, National and Regional Monitoring
Programs.
2   Monitoring of ground water level (a part of local integrated  Management bodies of protected areas, MoE, Included MoE Strengthening moni-
monitoring)                                         consultant companies                   toring and enforcement capacity
programme (Item 1.4).
3   Mosquito population monitoring (a part of local integrated  Management bodies of protected areas, MoE,  Included in component 1
monitoring)                                         consultant companies
4   Biodiversity assessment program during construction phase  Management bodies of protected areas, MoE,  Included in component 1
consultant companies
Environmental Assessment                                                                                                 54
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
VII. EIA CONCLUSION
The in-depth analysis of possible environmental impacts allows for the conclusion that the
proposed project complies with the environmental requirements of Albania and of the World
Bank and the WWTP construction is entirely possible with minimal negative impacts on the
local population and on the environment.
VIII. PUBLIC STAKEHOLDERS CONSULTATION
Vm.i. ORGANIZATION OF THE PUBLIC CONSULTATION PROCESS
A Public Consultation process was organized by the Government of Albania and the World Bank
in order to arrive to a common understanding of the issues related with wastewater management
and environmental conservation. The process has discussed the findings of the technical study
developed under the GEF Project "Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management" by the
selected Consultant. The project has planned to build Constructed Treatment Wetlands (CTWs)
in the cities of Lezhe, Durres and Saranda in order to preserve the biological diversity of the
surrounding natural habitats including coastal wetlands, rivers and sea waters.
The consultation process was organized in two phases. The first phase of this consultation
process was attended by circa 120 persons while the second phase by 50 persons. Participants
considered the public consultation process a very good experience and expressed the necessity to
follow up with such of experience for other projects in Albania, especially for those regarding
the environmental projects.
The main goals of this consultation process have been:
*   Dissemination of information on the main findings of the Technical Assessment Report;
*   Collection of reactions to improve the future project activities;
*   Promotion of the dialog between public institutions;
*   Promotion of the use of man made wetlands for wastewater treatment;
*   Creation of the local consensus regarding the initiative.
The final report of the Public Stakeholder Consultation process are attached on Annex 4.
VIII.2. CONCLUSION
The conclusions of the public consultation process are based on a good and active participation
of all the stakeholders. Their appreciation towards the public consultation process was expressed
also in the interviews organized by the World Bank and the facilitator.
The respondents agreed with the consultation workshop in terms of fulfilling their expectations
and achieving its announced objectives. They considered the public consultation process a very
good experience for them and expressed the necessity to follow up with such an experience for
all the other projects in Albania, especially for the environmental projects. Almost all the
participants stressed the fact that the consultation process increased their knowledge on natural
wastewater treatments.
Environmental Assessment                                                       55
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Managem ent Project
The majority of the participants approved the technicalfindings of the GEF Project "Integrated
Water and Ecosystem Management". The CTWs are widely accepted as feasible. All the
participants agreed that CTWs are actually a good solution for the treatment of sewage waters
runningfrom the cities of Lezhe, Durres and Saranda.
The majority of the issues raised during the consultation process were considered as closed. i.e.
participants were convinced that:
*   The proposed CTWs alternatives represent a good approach for the treatment of sewage wa-
ters,
*   CTWs have no negative impact on tourist activities in the three cities and more particularly
in Saranda-Butrint and Porto-Romano,
* CTWs represent no nuisance in terms of Mosquitoes and Bad Odours;
*   CTWs represent no hydro-geological andflooding risks;
*   CTWs do not harm the environment of the Protected Area of Kune- Vaini (Lezhe). In addition
GEF is going to finance 0.7 million dollars for the conservation of this ecologically impor-
tant area;
*   CTWs longevity is sufficient enough to ensure the successful mid-term treatment of sewage
waters;
*   CTWs carrying capacity is sufficient enough for the successful treatment of the sewage wa-
ters of Durres and Saranda
*   The question offinancing additional accessories remains still open and needs the commit-
ment of other donors (Euopean Bankfor Investment, etc.).
At the end of this consultation process it is evident that the main issues that need to be verified
are:
*   the land availability (in the three cities) of the CTWs,
* the population of Lezhe project area.
Based on this information the consultants should elaborate the final design in order to fit the
following requirements:
*   The inclusion of Shengjin in the CTWs scheme;
* The coordination of CTWs project with other sewage projects in Lezha area (PHARE, IOM,
etc);
*   The selection of the most appropriate alternative for Durres (Porto-Romano or Shen Vlash);
*   The displacement (100-200 m) of the selected alternativefor Saranda.
VHI.3. DESIGN IMPROVEMENT
Following the main consultation process findings the following items will be included in the
Final Design stage:
*   Shengjin wastewater system will be connected with the Lezhe WWTP;
Environmental Assessment                                                         56
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
* The Lezhe population will be according the new data available;
*   The Saranda WWTP have been displaced of 800 m, as included in the Alternative 4 selected;
*   According cadaster maps and Certificate obtained all the WWTP alternative have been lo-
cated in Public State property.
Environmental Assessment                                                        57
Intezrated Water and Ecosvstem Manaeement Proiect



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Annex 1
LIST OF THE FAUNA IN THE PROJECT AREA
Environmental Assessment
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
1.0      Phylum molluscs
1.1-Malacofauna (phylum molluscs) of brackish water - coastal lagoons
Emri i moluskut              Kune        Vain      Butrint
Hydrobia (Peringia) ulvae      +           +
Cerithium vulgatum             +          +           +
Nassarius mutabilis                       +
Nassarius reticulatus                                 +
Cyclope neritea                +          +           +
Aplysia punctata               +
Cerastoderma glaucum           +          +           +
Solen marginatus               +                      +
Scrobicularia plana            +          +           +
Dosinia lupinus
Tapes decussatus               +          +
+ presence of specie
1.2-Malacofauna (phylum molluscs) of costal coast
Latin name                    Kune     Vain      Sarande
Patella caerulea                                    +
Monodonta turbinata                                 +
Gibbula ardens                                      +
Gibbula divaricata                                  +
Rissoa ventricosa                        +
Hydrobia ulvae                  +        +
Cerithium vulgatum              +        +         +
Cerithium rupestre                                  +
Turritella comunis              +
Janthinajanthina                         +
Ocinebrina edwardsii                               +
Pisania striata                                     +
Nassarius mutabilis                      +
Nassarius reticulatus                               +
Columbella rustica                                 +
Vexillum ebenus                                    +
Conus mediterraneus                                +
Mytilus galloprovincialis                           +
Lithophaga lithophaga                               +
Cerastoderma glaucum            +        +         +
Mactra corallina                +        +
Solen marginatus                +        +
Ensis ensis                     +
Ensis minor                     +
Tellina planata                 +        +
Tellina pulchella               +        +
Tellina exigua                  +        +
Donax trunculus                 +        +
Donax variegatus                +        +
Pharus legumen
Dossinia lupinus                +
Venus verrucosa                                    +
Chamelea gallina               +         +         +
+ presence of specie
Environmental Assessment
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
2.0      Classe amphibia
Latin name                  Kune     Vain     Sarande
I    Salamandra salamandra                            +
2    Triturus cristatus             +        +         +
3    Triturus vulgaris              +        +         +
4    Hyla arborea                   +        +         +
5    Bufob                          +        +         ±
6    Bufo viridis                   +        +         +
7    Rana balcanica                 +        +         +
8    Rana eperiotica                                   +
9    Rana lessonae                  +        +
10   Rana dalmatina                +         +        +
+ presence of specie
3.0      Classe reptilia
Latin name                Kune      Vain     Sarande
I     Caretta caretta              +         +        +
2     Emys orbicularis             +         +         +
3     Mauremys caspita             +         +         +
4     Testudo hermani              +         +         +
5     Testudo marginata                                +
6     Hemidactylus turcicus        +         +         +
7     Cyrtodactylus kotschyi       +         +
8     Pseudopus apodus             +         +         +
9    1Anguisfragilis               +         +         +
10    Algyroides nigropunctatus    +         +        +
11    Lacerta trilimeala           +         +        +
12    Lacerta viridis              +         +        +
13    Podarcis muralis             +         +        +
14    Podarcis taurica             +         +        +
15    Ablepharus kitaibelii        +         +        +
16    Typhlops vermicularis                           +
17    Eryx jaculus                                    +
18    Coluber caspius              +         +        +
19    Coluber gemronensis          +         +        +
20    Coluber najadum              +         +         +
21    Coronella austriaca                              +
22    Elaphe longisima             +         +         +
23    Elaphe situla                                    +
24    Elaphe quatuorlineata        +         +         +
25    Malpolon monspessulanus      +         +
26    Natrix natrix                +         +         +
27    Natrix tesellata             +         +         +
28    Telescopusfallax             +         +         +
29    Vipera ammodytes
+ presence of specie
Environmental Assessment
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
4.0      Ornitofauna (classe aves) (')
Latin name               Kune           Vain          Total
Tachybaptus ruficollis   1-2            3-5           4-7
Ixobrychus minutus       3-6            10-15         13-21
Egretta garzetta         5              -             5
Ardea cinerea            3              -             3
Anas platyrhynchos       -              1-2           1-2
Rallus aquaticus         4-8            12-18         16-26
Gallinula chloropus      5-10           10-20         15-30
Fulica atra              1-2            2-4           3-6
Tringa totanus           2-5            2-4           4-9
Actitis hypoleucos       1-2            -             1-2
Charadrius alexandrinus  2-4            1-2           3-6
Charadrius dubius        1-2            1-2           2-4
Total                    24-49          42-72         62-121
(1) in the marshlands observed in 2001
5.0      Mamalofauna (classe mammalia)
5.1. Mammalofauna e Kune-Vainit
5.1.1-Mammalians in the non wetland area ofKune-Vaini
No.             Scientific Name             Abundance'       Status2       Year
I      E:rinaceus concolor                       4              1          2001
2      Tapla caeca                               4              1           2001
3      Crocidura suaveolensis                     3             1           2001
4      Rhinolophus euryale                       4              1           2001
5      Rhinolophusferrumequinum                  3              1           2001
6      Rhinolophus blasii                         3             1           2001
7      Myotis myotis                             3              1           2001
8      Miniopterus schreibersi                   3              1           2001
9      Pipistrellus pipistrellus                 2              1           2001
10     Pipistrelus kuhli                         2              1          2001
11     Pipistrellus savi                         2              1          2001
12     Lepus europaeus                           4              1          2001
13     Apodemus sylvaticus                       3              1          2001
14     Apodemusflavicollis                       4              1          2001
15     Apodemus mystacinus                       4              1          2001
16     Mus musculus                              2              1          2001
17     Mus domesticus                            2              1          2001
18     Rattus rattus                             2              1          2001
19     Rattus norvegicus                         2              1          2001
20     Vulpes vulpes                             4              1           2001
21     Meles meles                               4              1           2001
22     Mustela nivalis                           3              1           2001
23     Mustela putorius                          4              1           2001
'Abundance:           1- Abundant; 2- normal; 3- non - normal; 4- rarely
2 Status:              1- Nesting; 2- Wintering; 3- Rezident; 4- Tranzit; 5- Aksidentale
Environmental Assessment
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
5.1.2-Mammalians in the wetland area of Kune-Vaini
No.             Scientific Name             Abundance3       Status4     Year
I      Rhinolophus euryale                       4              3         2001
2      Rhinolophusferrumequinum                  3              3         2001
3      Rhinilophus blasii                        3              3         2001
4      Miniopterus schreibersi                   4              3         2001
5      Myotis myotis                             3              3         2001
6      Pipistrellus pipistrellus                 2              3         2001
7      Pipistrellus kuhli                        2              3         2001
8      Pipistrellus savii                        2              3         2001
9      Rattus rattus                             4              3         2001
10     Rattus norvegicus                         3              3         2001
11     Vulpes vulpes                             4              3         2001
12     Mustela nivalis                           3              3         2001
13     Lutra lutra                               4              1         2001
14     Meles meles                               4              3         2001
5.1.3 Mammalians in the marine water of Kune-Vaini
No.            Scientific Name            Abundance        Status       Year
I      Dlephinus delphi                        4              5          1994
2      Tursiops truncatus                      4              5          2001
3      Monachus monachus                       4              5         1982(?)
3 Abundance:           1- Abundant; 2- normal; 3- non - normal; 4- rarely
4 Status:              1- Nesting; 2- Wintering; 3- Rezident; 4- Tranzit; 5- Aksidentale
Environmental Assessment
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
5.2 Mammalofauna of Butrinti
5.2.1-Mammalians in the non wetland area o Butrinti
No.             Scientific Name             Abundance5       Status6     Date/Viti
Erinaceus concolor                        4              i           2001
2      Tapla caeca                               4              1           2001
3      Crocidura suaveolensis                    3              1           2001
4      Crocidura leucodon                        4               1          2001
5      Rhinolophus euryale                       4              1           2001
6      Rhinolophusferrumequinum                  3              1           2001
7      Rhinolophus blasii                        3              1           2001
8      Myotis myotis                             3              1           2001
9      Myotis blythi                             3              1           2001
10     Miniopterus schreibersi                   3              1          2001
1 1    Pipistrellus pipistrellus                 2              1          2001
12     Pipistrelus kuhli                         2              1          2001
13     Pipistrellus savi                         2              1          2001
14     Tadarida tenniotis                        4              1          2001
15     Lepus europaeus                           4              1           2001
16     Microtus thomasi                          2              1          2001
17     Microtusfelteni                           3              1          2001
18     Microtus epiroticus                       4              1          2001
19     Apodemus sylvaticus                       3              1          2001
20     A podemus flavicollis                     4              1           2001
21     Apodemus mystacinus                       4              1           2001
22     Mus m. musculus                           2              1           2001
23     Mus m. domesticus                         2              1           2001
24     Mus abbotti spicilegus                    3              1           2001
25     Rattus rattus                             2              1           2001
26     Rattus norvegicus                         2              1           2001
27     Canis lupus                               4              5           2000
28     Canis aureus                              4              1           2001
29     Vulpes vulpes                             4              1           2001
30     Meles meles                               4              1           2001
31     Mustela nivalis                           3              1           2001
32     Martesfoina                               4              1           2001
33     Sus scrofa                                4              I           2001
5 Abundance:          1- Abundant; 2- normal 3- non normal; 4- rarely
6 Status:             1- Nesting; 2- wintering; 3- Rezident; 4- Tranzit; 5- Aksidentale
Environmental Assessment
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
5.2.2-Mammalians in the wetland area of Butrinti
No.             Scientific Name             Abundance        Status     Date/Viti
I      Rhinolophus euryale                       4              3          2001
2      Rhinolophusferrumequinum                  3              3          2001
3      Rhinilophus blasii                        3              3          2001
4      Miniopterus schreibersi                   4              3          2001
5      Myotis myotis                              3             3          2001
6      Myotis blythi                              3             3          2001
7      Pipistrellus pipistrellus                 2              3          2001
8      Pipistrellus kuhli                        2              3          2001
9      Pipistrellus savii                        2              3          2001
10     Rattus rattus                             4              3          2001
1 1    Rattus norvegicus                         3              3          2001
12     Vulpes vulpes                             4              3          2001
13     Canis aureus                              3              3          2001
14     Mustela nivalis                           3              3          2001
15     Lutra lutra                               4              1          2001
16     Meles meles                               4              3          2001
5.2.3 Mammalians in the marine water
No.             Scientific Name             Abundance7        Status8    Date/Viti
I      Dlephinus delphi                           4              5           1998
2      Tursiops truncatus                          4              5          2001
3      Monachus monachus                          4              5           2000
7 Abundance:           1- Abundant; 2- normal 3- non normal; 4- rarely
8 Status:              1- Nesting; 2- wintering; 3- Rezident; 4- Tranzit; 5- Aksidentale
Environmental Assessment
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Annex 2
LIST OF ENDANGERED SPECIES OBSER VED IN THE PROJECTAREAS
Environmental Assessment
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Table 2.1 - Kune Vaini marshland - List of endangered species
English name                     Scientific name                  Category of threat
Mouse ear bat                    Myotis myotis                    VU
Otter                            Lutra lutra                      EN
Ferruginous duck                 Aythya nyroca                    VU
Pigmy cormorant                  Phalacrocorax pygmeus            LR
Table 2.2 - Kanella lake - List of endangered species
English name                     Scientific name                  Category of threat
Otter                            Lutra lutra                      EN
Ferruginous duck                 Aythya nyroca                    VU
Pigmy cormorant                  Phalacrocorax pygmeus            LR
Table 2.3 - Durres Porta Romana marine environment - List of endangered species
English name                    | Scientific name                 Category of threat
Sea turale                      I Caretta caretta                 EN
Table 2.4 - Durres-Rrushkull-Erzeni River Managed Natural Reserve with connecting corridor- List of
endangered species
English name                     Scientific name                  Category of threat
Mouse ear bat                    Myotis myotis                    VU
Ferruginous duck                 Aythya nyroca                    VU
Pigmy cormorant                  Phalacrocorax pygmeus            LR
Pallid harrier                   Circus macrourus                 LR
Table 2.5 - Durres-Rrushkull-Erzeni River Managed Natural Reserve without connecting corridor- List of
endangered species
English name                     Scientific name                  Category of threat
Mouse ear bat                    Myotis myotis                    VU
Ferruginous duck                 Aythya nyroca                    VU
Pigmy cormorant                  Phalacrocorax pygmeus            LR
Table 2.6 - Butrinti lake area - List of endangered species
English name                     Scientific name                  Category of threat
Mouse ear bat                    Myotis myotis                    VU
Otter                            Lutra lutra                      EN
Aythya nyroca                    VU
Pigmy cormorant                  Phalacrocorax pygmeus            LR
Pallid harrier                   Circus macrourus                 LR
Table 2.7 - Saranda bay and Ksamili bay - List of endangered species
English name                     Scientific name                  Category of threat
Monk seal                        Monachus monachus                CR
Sea turtle                      j Caretta caretta                 EN
Table 2.8 - Kakome bay - List of endangered species
English name                     Scientific name                 [Category of threat
Monk seal                        Monachus monachus                CR
Sea turtle                       Caretta caretta                 |EN
Environmental Assessment
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Annex 3
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIO-ECONOMIC QUALITY INDEX FOR THE PROPOSED
ALTERNATIVES (QI)
Environmental Assessment
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



A lbania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
1.0     Methodology
The evaluation of the alternatives has been realised adopting a multi-criteria approach based on a
qualitative assessment of the interactions between the proposed project alternatives and the
environment (chemical/physical, natural and socio-economic aspects). A very simple abstract of
the methodology utilised is reported below.
Firstly, the consultant has identified the typologies of aspects involved in the evaluation of
alternatives and listed on Tab.3.1-6. Secondly, the chemical/physical, natural and socio-economic
aspects and their interactions with project interventions have been considered in order to determine
the impacts (and the risks of impact) of the alternatives.
Finally each impact has been described with qualitative indicators being (Tab.3.1): (i)
positive/negative, (ii) reversible/irreversible, (iii) temporary/permanent and (iv) magnitude (low,
strong and very strong).
These qualitative indicators have been defined as:
(i)  positive/negative-the  impacts  associated  with  the  improvement/deterioration  of
environmental or socio-economic conditions;
(ii)  reversible/irreversible-the impacts where corrective actions should/should not be able to
recover the conditions ex ante;..
(iii) temporary/permanent-the impacts whose duration is limited/endless.
(iv)  magnitudo-the dimension of impact on terms of environmental or socio-economic
conditions
The results have been reported in the paragraphs 3 and 4.
Tab. 3. 1- Qualitative indicators for the multi-criteria analysis
Type of impact              Categories                Simbol
Impact                      Positive                   +
Negative
Effects                    Irreversible                I
Reversible                 R
Duration                    Permanent                  P
Temporary                  T
Magnitude                   Low                        L
Strong                     S
Very strong                VS
This analysis has been finalised using a quality index (QI), which accommodates the results of the
alternative evaluation. These results, in a tentative ranking of project alternatives, enable a
preliminary evaluation of project interventions according with this figures:
QI positive values (>+300) mean a strong feasibility of the alternative proposed without particular
environmental or socio-economic constraints;
QI values (among <+300 and >0) provide a positive evaluation of the alternative proposed, but
highlights the needs of specific environmental or/and socio-economic measures; the alternative
should be realised but need of a cat. A evaluation of impact.
QI values <0 mean that the implementation of the alternative proposed presents strong
environmental and/or socio-economic impacts and it is not practicable. Other altemative should be
considered.
The project evaluation includes the alternative of no-construction identified as alternative 0 in
compliance with the TORs.
Environmental Assessment
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Basically, a distinction was made between relevant and not relevant impacts, implying that each
project intervention should be associated with impacts of category I (no relevant impacts =
reversible, temporary and low magnitude impacts) or category IV (3 relevant impacts eg
irreversible, permanent and strong magnitude impacts). In the first case the impact has been
evaluated using a value of 25 points (+ or - according with the positivity or negativity of the
impact), as compared to the second case where the value is of 100 point, as illustrated in table 3.2.
Table 3.2-Attribution of values to the different categories of impacts
Impacts                      Degree of    Category of   Value
relevance     impact
Reversible
Temporary
Low
(R T L)                                     0 relevant impact Cat.I     25
Irreversible  Reversible    Reversible
Temporary     Permanent     Temporary
Low           Low            Strong         n°l
(I T L)       (R P L)       (R T S)         relevant impacts  Cat.II    50
Irreversible  Irreversible  Reversible
Permanent     Temporary      Permanent
Low           Strong        Strong          n°2
(I P L)       (I T S)       (R P S)         relevant impacts  Cat.III   75
Irreversible  Reversible    Reversible
Permanent     Permanent     Permanent
Strong        Very Strong   Very Strong     n°3
(I P S)       (R P VS)      (R P VS)        relevant impacts  Cat. IV   100
Irreversible
Permanente                                  n°3
Very strong                                 relevant impacts
(I P VS)                                    + magnitude     Cat. V      125
Environmental Assessment
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
2.0     Analysis of alternatives
2.1 Durres area
The project aim is to realise about 100 hectares of constructed wetlands in the Durres plain in order
to treat the waste waters flowing from the city (150,000 inhabitants) to the sea (Porta Romana)
through an open channel.
Alternative 1-The constructed wetlands will be located in a former fish farm close the new
urbanisation area of Durres.
Alternative 2-The constructed wetlands will be realised in the neighbouring of a little brackish
wetland close the sea (1 Km from the pumping station of Porta Romana and 8 Km from the new
urbanisation area of Durres). The State Property is rented by a private operator
The project location as proposed in altemative 1 should enable to treat the urban wastewater close
in neighbouring of Durres, reducing the human health risk associated the presence of untreated
open sewage canal flowing from Durres to Porta Romana.
The selection of altemative 2 don't present the same advantages of altemative 1, but it is more
realistic taking into account the urbanisation process in Durres (NE part). The location close Porta
Romana will avoid to build new treatment plant in the next future. The future cover of the canal
should be proposed as mitigation measure in terms of public health. Particular attention should be
paid also in undertaking mitigation measures during the construction of the lagoon in order to avoid
the potential environmental damage to the brackish wetland located in the neighbouring of the
proposed intervention area of altemative 2.
Table 2.3 - Multi-criteria evaluation of Durres area of intervention
A. Water                      Alternative 1    Alternative 2      Alternative 0
Waterquality                  +RPVS            +RPVS              -RPVS
B. Soil
B.l Waterbed                  +IPVS            +IPVS              -IPVS
B.2 Sludges                   -RPL             -RPL               None
C. Biodiversity
C. l Natural habitats         +RPVS            +RPVS              -RPVS
C.2 Endangered species        +RPL             +RPL               -RPL
C.3 Migration species         +RPS             + R P S            - R P S
E. Costs
E.l Capital costs             - I T L          - I T S            None
E.1 Operational costs         - I P L          - I P S            None
F. Local condition suitability
F. I Availability of land     - I P L          - I P VS           None
F.2 Stakeholder opinion       + R P L          + R P VS           - R P VS
G. Institutional requirements
G. I Local authority permit   + I P L          + I P L            None
H. Training
H. 1 Manager training         + R T L          + R T L            None
H.2 Worker training           +RTL             +RTL               None
I. Monitoring
1. I Chemical-physical and    + R P S          + R P S            None
microbiological parameters
Risks                         Alternative 1    Alternative 2      Alternative 0
Humanhealth                   +RPVS            +RPS               -RPVS
Hydro-geological              - R P L          - R P L            None
Environmental Assessment
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
2.2 Lehze area
The project foresees the treatment of the waste water coming from Lezhe (18,000 inhabitants) to
the river Drinit in a costructed wetlands (about 19 ha). Three alternatives have been proposed.
Alternative 1 - Located in "Ishulli I Sengjinit" near the Merxhani Lagoon. The area is free from
civil settlements and moreover the agriculture activity is not exploited, due to the high salinity
content of the soil. The State Property is rented by a private operator;
Alternative 2 - Located in "Ishulli I Sengjinit" between the Merxhani Lagoon and Drint river. The
area is free from civil settlements and moreover the agriculture activity is not exploited. The State
Property is rented by a private operator;
Alternative 3 - The constructed wetlands will be located in "Ishulli I Lezhes" downstream of the
Lehze town on the left banks of the active channel of Drinit river.
Alternative 4 - Located in "Ishulli I Sengjinit" near the Merxhani Lagoon. The area is free from
civil settlements and moreover the agriculture activity is not exploited. The State Property is free of
any private operator.
The site selected in alternative 1 2 and 4 must be considered as a semi-natural habitat. The
grassland presents the typical ecological communities of Mediterranean alophyle grassland.
In the evaluation of alternative 3 particular attention should be paid to the high hydro-geological
risk in case of floods. The intervention is located in a flooding area of Drinit river.
Alternatives I and 4 are more practicable than altematived 3 taking into consideration the lack of
hydro-geological risks. Alternatives I and 4 need of mitigation measures considering the proximity
with Merxhani lagoon in order to reduce noise pollution, to avoid exhausted oil spilling and related
ground and water contamination, to minimise waste production. Particular attention should be also
paid during the construction works to the reduction of the disturbance during the nesting season of
birds. Further details in table 3.4.
Table 3.4 - Multicriteria evaluation of the alternative in Lezhe/Shengiin area
A Water              Alternative 1  Alternative 2  Alternative 3  Alternative 4  Alternative 0
Waterquality         +RPVS        +RPVS        +RPVS        +RPVS        -RPVS
B. Soil__                _  _ _ _
B.l Waterbed         +IPVS        +IPVS        +IPVS        +IPVS        -IPVS
B.2Sludges           -RPL         -RPL         -RPL         -RPL         None
C. Biodiversity
C.1Naturalhabitats   -RPL         +RPL         +RPL         -RPL         -RPL
C.2Endangeredspecies  +RPL        +RPL         +RPL         +RPL         -RPL
C.3Migrantspecies    +RPL         +RPL         +RPL         +RPL         -RPL
E.Costs
E.l Capital costs    -ITL         -ITL         -ITL         -ITL         None
E.1 Operational costs  - I P L    - I P L      - I P L      - I P L      None
F.Local condition
suitability
F. I Availability of land  - I P VS  -IPVS     - I P L      - I P L      None
F.2 Stakeholder opinion  + R PV S  +RPVS       +RPL         + R PV S     - R P VS
G. Institutional
requirements
G.1 Localauthority   +IPL         +IPL         +IPL         +IPL         None
permit
H Training
H. I Manager training  +RTL       ++RTL        ++RTL        ++RTL        None
H.2 Worker training  +RTL         ++RTL        ++RTL        ++RTL        None
Environmental Assessment
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
1. Monitoring
1.1 Chemical-physical  + R P S   + R P S     + R P S                  None
and microbiological
parameters          I
Risks               Alternatives I Alternative 2 Alternative 3  Alternatives 4 Alternative 0
Humanhealth         +RPL         +RPL        +RPL       +IRPL          -RPL
Hydro-geological    -RPL         - R P L     -IPVS        -RPL         None
2.3 Shengjin Area
The realisation of the constructed wetlands in Shengijini area appears very contradictory taking
into consideration the lack of availability of suitable land. The location of the constructed wetland
in the marshland bordering the Kanella lake (altematives 1) presents a very strong negative impact
in tenms of lost of natural habitats and of destruction of nesting habitat of an endangered species,
Black winged stilt (Himantopus himantopus), which also should be considered as a flag species,
witness of the richness in terms of biodiversity of the marshland. The consultant has proposed to
connect the Shengjin wastewater to the Lezhe CTW.
2.4     Saranda area
The objective of the project is to treat the wastewater coming from the city of Saranda (30.000
inhabitants). Currently the untreated wastewater is pumped to the Cuka Channel close to the river
outlet in Saranda bay.
Alternative 1- Realise a constructed wetland (20ha) on the right bank of Cuka Channel in order to
treat the wastewater and to pump it in the outlet of Cuka Channel. The State Property is free of any
pnvate operator.
Alternative 2 - Constructed wetland, will be located on the left bank of the Cuka Channel, between
the river and the embankment, at the proximity of the estuary of the river itself. The State Property
is free of any private operator.
Alternative 3 - Constructed wetland, will be located on the left bank of the Cuka Channel beyond
the river protection embankment and in the neighbouring of Butrinti lake. After the wastewater
treatment system, the waste-residual-water will be discharged in Cuka Channel. The State Property
is rented by a private operator
Alternative 4 - Constructed wetland, will be located on the left bank of the Cuka Channel beyond
the river protection embankment and in the neighbouring of Butrinti lake. After the wastewater
treatment system, the waste-residual-water will be discharged by gravity into the Butrinti lake, and
then to the sea. The State Property is free of any private operator.
Alternative I will not be approved by the Cuka population, taking into account the proximity of the
intervention with the town. A small wetland (a pond plus a reed habitat) is located close the
proposed intervention area and construction works could produce negative environmental impacts.
Alternative 2 is located in a potential flooding area and dikes need to be built in case of selection of
the alternative. Alternative 3 and 4 are more practicable.
Environmental Assessment
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Table 2.6 - Multi-criterial evaluation of Saranda area intervention
A Water             Alternative I Alternative 2 Alternative 3 Alternative 4 Alternative 0
Waterquality        +RPS        +RPS         +RPS         -RPL          -RPS
B. Soil
B.l Waterbed        + IPVS      + IPVS       + IPVS       + IPVS        - IPVS
B.2Sludges          -RPL         -RPL        -RPL         -RPL          None
C. Biodiversity
C. I Natural habitats  -RPL     +RPS         +RPVS        - R PV S      - R PV S
C.2Endangered       +RPS        +RPS         +RPS         -RPL          -RPVS
species
C.3 Migrant species  None       None         + R P S      - R P L       None
E.Costs
E.l Capitalcosts    -ITS         -ITS        -ITL         -ITL          None
E. I Operational costs  - I P S  - I P S     - I P L      - I P L       None
F.Local    condition
suitability
F.1 Availability of  -IPVS       -IPVS       -IPVS        - I P L       None
land                                                    .
F.2 Stakeholder     -RPVS        -R P S      -R P S       +RPVS         - R P.VS
opinion
G.      Institutional
requirements
G.1 Localauthority  -IPL         +IPL        +IPL         +IPL          None
permit
H Training
H. I Manager training  +RTL      +RTL        +RTL         +RTL          None
H.2Workertraining    +RTL        +RTL        +RTL         +RTL          None
I. Monitoring
1.1 Chemical-physical +RPS       +RPS        + R P S      + R P S       None
and microbiological
parameters
Risks                Alternative I Alternative 2 Alternative 3 Alternative 4 Alternative 0
Humanhealth          +RPVS       +RPVS       +RPVS        +RPVS         -RPVS
Flood                - RPS       - R PS      None         None          None
3.0     The selection of alternatives
The qualitative data contained in the Tables 3.3-6 have been opportunely elaborated according to
the value stated in table 3.2 in order to calculate the environmental and socio-economic Quality
Index (QI) for each proposed alternative. The results are presented in Appendix A and summarised
in table 3.7. Roughly should be considered that all the alternatives which present a quality index
value > 300 are opportune from environmental and socio-economic point of view. Contrarily the
alternatives with environmental quality index values < 0 are not suitable (further consideration in
para 2.0) .
Environmental Assessment
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Table 3.7-Environmental and socio-economic quality index for the proposed alternatives (QI)
Area           Alternative 1 Alternative 2  Alternative 3  Alternative 4  Alternative 0
Durres             +500         +450            N/A          N/A          -650
Lezhe/Shengjin     +300         +275            +255        +350         -525
Saranda             -75         +250           +350         +450         -600
4.0     Discussions
Durres - Alternatives 1 and 2 present the same IQ values (QI = +500/+450), but these figures are
associated with different evaluation of the aspects. The Alternative 2 seems to be the more
opportune to realise taking into consideration the stakeholders opinion. Alternative 1 enables to
save a considerable amount of money in terms of capital and operational costs.
Lezhe - Alternatives 1 and 4 present the highest IQ values (QI = +300/350 ). The Alternative 4
seems to be the more opportune to realise taking into consideration the stakeholders opinion and
the availability of the land without any private operator. Alternative 3 is not practicable taking into
consideration the high hydro-geological risk.
Shengijni - .The realisation of the constructed wetland in Shengijni (Alternative 1) should be not
considered taking into account the strong environmental constraints in terms of lost of biodiversity
and the ecological fragility of Kanella lake. The city wastewater will be connected with the Lezhe
CTW facilities.
Saranda - Alternative 4 (QI = +450) seems to be the most indicated because is not associated
with socio-economic or ecological constraints. Alternative 3 (QI = +350) is practicable but is
associated with higher capital costs as well as a non enthusiastic stakeholder adhesion. Alternative
I (QI =-75) is not practicable taking into account the stakeholder negative opinion, the hydro-
geological risk and other ecological issues.
Table 3.8 highlights the best alternatives for each intervention area and reports also the
practicable/not practicable alternatives taking into account the QI values (see table 3.7).
Table 3.8 - Selection of the best alternatives
Area            Alternative 1 Alternative 2  Alternative 3  Alternative 4  Alternative 0
Durres         to be selected  to be selected  N/A        N/A            No practicable
Lezhe/Shengjin  Practicable  Practicable   No practicable  to be selected  No practicable
Saranda         No practicable Practicable  Practicable   to be selected  No practicable
In order to optimise the allocation of resources particular attention should be paid to the very high
value of the quality index for the alternatives I and 2 in Durres, which reflect the relevance of the
project intervention in terms of public health and environment. The Quality Index presents also
very high values alternative 4 in Saranda, taking into account the relevance of the health and
environmental context (in the Ionian sea, between Corfu and Saranda cost, lives a small population
of monk seal, and of sea turtles two endangered species).
Alternatives 4 in Lezhe should be implemented, but the relevance of intervention in terms of public
health and environment is not comparable with the Durres and Saranda projects.
Environmental Assessment
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Annex 3-Appendix A
3.1-Evaluation of CTW alternatives in
Durres
A. Water                  Alternative I     Alternative 2    Alternative 0
Water quality                         101              10C              -10(
B. Soil
B.1 Waterbed                          125              125              -125
B.2 Sludges                           -5(               -5C
C. Biodiversity
C.lNatural habitats                   10(              10C              -10
C.2 Endangered species                 5(               5C               -5(
C.3 Migration species                  75               75               -75
E.Costs
E. I Capital costs                    -5               -75
E. I Operational costs                -50                75
F.Local condition
suitability
F. I Availability of land             -75              -125
F.2 Stakeholder opinion                5(               10C             -10
G. Institutional
requirements
G. I Local authority permit
75                75
H Training
H.l Manager training                   25                25
H.2 Worker training                    25                25
1. Monitoring
1.1 Chemical-physical and             50                50
nicrobiological
arameters
Risks
rublic health          |               751               75              -100
pydro-geological                      -251              -25
IQ Index                              501               450              -650
Environmental Assessment
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



A Ibania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Annex 3-Appendix A
3.2-Evaluation of CTW alternatives in Lezhe
A. Water                     Alternative 1  Alternative 2  Alternative 3  Alternative 4  Alternative 0
Water quality                          10             10            100           100          -10
B. Soil
B.1 Waterbed                            125           125           125           125          -125
3.2 Sludges                            -5(           -5(            -50           -50
C Biodiversity
C.l Natural habitats                    25            5             50            25           -5(
C.2 Endangered species                  5(            5(            50            50            -50
.3 Migratory species                    5(            5             50            5             -5
E.Costs
E. 1 Capital costs                      -5(           -5            -50           -5l
E. 1 Operational costs                 -5(            -50           -50           -50
F.Local condition suitability
F.1 Availability of land               -125          -125           -75           -75
F.2 Stakeholder opinion                 10(            5             50           10           -10(
G. Institutional requirements
G.1 Local authority permit              75             75            75            75
H Training
H. 1 Manager training                   25            25             25            25
H.2 Worker training                     25            25             25            25
1. Monitoring
.1 Chemical-physical and                5(            5(            50            50
icrobiological parameters
Risks
Public health                           5C             50            5(            50           -50_
Hydro-geological           If           50j          -Sf           -125]          -s
QlIndex                   If3001                    274           2551          350           -5251
Environmental Assessment
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Annex 3-Appendix A
3.4-Evaluation of CTW alternative in Saranda area
A. Water                             Alternative I Alternative 2 Alternative 3 Alternative 4 Alternative 0
Water quality                                  75           75          75          -5C           -75
B. Soil
B.1 Waterbed                                  125          125          125         125          -125
3.2 Sludges                                   -5C          -5C         -50          -5C
C. Biodiversity
CI.Natural habitats                           -50           75          75           75           -75
C.2 Endangered species                         75          75           75           75           -75
.3 Migratory species                           75           75          75           75
E.Costs
E. 1 Capital costs                            -75          -75          -5C         -5C
E.1 Operational costs                         -75          -75          -50         -5C
F.Local condition suitability
F. Availability of land                      -125         -125         -125         -75
F.2 Stakeholder opinion                      -125          -75          -75        +10C          -10C
G. Institutional requirements
G.1 Local authority permit                    -75           75           75          75
H Training
H. I Manager training                          25           25           25          25
H.2 Worker training                            25           25           25          25
1. Monitoring
1.1 Chemical-physical and microbiological      50           5C           50          5C
parameters
Risks
Public health                                 100          10           101         10C          -10(
Hydro-geological                              -50          -51
Ql Index                                      -75         +250        +350         +450          -551
Environmental Assessment
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Annex 4
PUBLIC CONSULTATION PROCESS
Enviromnental Assessment
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



ANNEX 4
PUBLIC CONSULTATION PROCESS ON
"INTEGRATED WATER AND ECOSYSTEM
MANAGEMENT PROJECT"
GEF Component P075156
Prepared by Dr. Taulant Bino
(Facilitator of the Public Consultation Process)
Tirana, 5th of May 2003



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
This report is the review of the Public Consultation process organized by the Government of
Albania and the World Bank in order to arrive to a common understanding of the issues related
with wastewater management and environmental conservation. The process has discussed the
findings of the technical study developed under the GEF Project "Integrated Water and
Ecosystem Management" by two consultant companies, SWS and TEI. The project has planned
to build Constructed Treatment Wetlands (CTWs) in the cities of Lezhe, Durres and Saranda in
order to preserve the biological diversity of the surrounding natural habitats including coastal
wetlands, rivers and sea waters.
The consultation process was organized in two phases. The first phase of this consultation
process was attended by circa 120 persons while the second phase by 50 persons. Participants
considered the public consultation process a very good experience and expressed the necessity to
follow up with such of experience for other projects in Albania, especially for those regarding
the environmental projects.
Participants approved the technical findings of the GEF Project "Integrated Water and
Ecosystem Management". The CTW were thus widely accepted as feasible. Participants were
convinced that CTWs compose actually a good alternative for the treatment of sewage waters of
Lezhe, Durres and Saranda.
Some of the issues raised by the participants need the follow up of the Project Implementation
Unit of World Bank Water Project and the contribution of SWS and TEI consultants. Such issues
are:
Verification of landownership for the selected CTWs alternatives in the three cities;
* Inclusion of Shengjin sewage waters in the selected CTW alternative;
* Redesigning of CTWs for Lezhe and Shengjin taking into consideration the reel number
of the inhabitants in Lezha and Shengjin;
* Integration of CTWs project for Lezhe with other actual sewage water projects for Lezhe
area;
* The definition on the exact location of the CTW in Saranda
A clear response for those issues should be definitively included in the final design for the
Construction and Management of Constructed Treatment Wetlands.
I



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Introduction.3
1. Organization of the Public Consultation Process.5
2. The Main Findings of the Consultation Process.8
2.1. Public Consultation on CTWs of Lezhe/Shengjin.8
2.1.1. First Phase of Public Consultation on CTWs of Lezhe/Shengjin   .8
2.1.2. Second Phase of Public Consultation on CTWs of Lezhe/Shengjin .........  11
2.2. Public Consultation on CTWs of Durres ..............................................  13
2.2.1. First Phase of Public Consultation on CTWs of Durres ..........................  13
2.2.2. Second Phase of Public Consultation on CTWs of Durres ....................  16
2.3. Public Consultation on CTWs of Saranda .............................................  17
2.3.1. First Phase of Public Consultation on CTWs of Saranda .......................  17
2.3.2. Second Phase of Public Consultation on CTWs of Saranda ..................  19
3. Conclusions ...............................................................       21
Annex 1. Evaluation of the consultation process ................................................  24
Annex 2. List of public consultation participants .....................................  30
A. Participants of the first phase workshops .................................  30
B. Participants of the second phase workshops ........... .................  34
2



Acknowledgements
I would like to thank you all the persons that helped in the designing, organizing and
implementing the public consultation process. My special thanks go to the designers of the
consultation process, the World Bank team (Grazia Atanasio, Daniele Calabrese, Claudio
Purificato, Arben Bakllamaja and Andreas Rohde). Organizing the process was not a very easy
task, but the difficulties were resolved through a wonderful collaboration with representatives of
PIU of Water Project (Genc Gjeci & Ndricim Shani), Regional Environmental Agencies of
Saranda (Areti Papadhima), Lezhe (Jak Gjini) and Durres (Ilir Qesja), and the Albanian Ministry
of Environment (Lufter Xhuveli, Besnik Baraj and Zamir Dedej). At last but not the least, I do
appreciate the very good comments on the report. Many thanks to Ndricim Shani, Grazia Atanasio
and Daniele Calabrese.
Introduction
The Government of Albania and the World Bank have started and are now promoting a
participatory approach through a process of Public Consultation in order to arrive to a common
understanding of the issues related with wastewater management and environmental
conservation.
This process is based and discusses the findings of a technical study developed from a
Consultant company SWS & TEI (Italy) under a grant from the GEF entitled Albania GEF
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management. The grant and the project had the objective of
introducing basic wastewater treatment in areas of global environmental importance and
integrating the management of wastewater into the overall ecosystem management.
The project has planned to build Constructed Treatment Wetlands (CTW) in the cities of Lezhe,
Durres dhe Saranda. As well as in other Albanian urban areas, the wastewater from the three
cities mentioned above, are discharged, without any treatment, directly into rivers or drainage
channels, that in turn transport the untreated sewage into tidal marshland or marine coastal zone.
The absence of treatment causes a large pollution in marine waters and in the areas of special
biological importance located in their vicinity. Such a pollution has considerably deteriorated the
natural inland ecosystems and the biological productivity of the coastal areas. Pollution from
untreated sewage water represents thus a serious threat to the biological diversity of the natural
habitats of the coastal wetlands, rivers and sea waters, as well as a potential risk to public health.
In order to face this problem, the technical study proposes some alternatives for the location of
the CTW. Based in a multicriteria approach the project has selected for each city one alternative
as being the most appropriate for the CTW location.
3



The project findings were part of the public consultation process that had five objectives:
*  to provide information to different stakeholders about the GEF project and its
environmental and technical aspects;
* to listen to stakeholders' opinions, concerns and suggestions on the issues related to
wastewater treatment;
* to promote the dialogue between public institutions (Central and local Government)
and civil society (Local communities, NGOs and specialists in the field of
environment) on the issue of environmental protection and ecosystem management;
*  To promote the use of constructed wetlands for wastewater treatment;
*  To build consensus among stakeholders on the CTW locations.
This report is the result of ten workshops (seven in the first phase and three in the second phase
of the public consultation process) held in the three cities and in Tirana. It gives a general
overview on the main issues raised during the consultation process, suggestions to improve the
project and pays particular attention to issues that need further verification and elaboration.
Structure of the Report
The report is structured in three chapters. The first chapter describes the organization of the
consultation process stressing the overall representativeness of all the stakeholders. The second
chapter continues with the discussions held during the consultation process. It is built in three
subchapters describing the consultation process on the CTWs in the three cities. Each subchapter
is a self speaking document that could be separately used by stakeholders interested in only one
of the cities.
The third chapter gives a general overview of the main results of the consultation process. The
issues raised in this chapter deserve a very special attention by PIU, SWS and TEI consulting
entreprises as well as the World Bank.
4



1. Organisation of the Public Consultation Process
The consultation process was attended by the representatives of the three municipalities, the
World Bank, Water PIU and the Ministry of Environment. The consultation process was
organized in two phases:
A. First Phase of the Consultation Process
The first phase was organized in seven single consultations with groups of stakeholders in local
and central level (Tab. 1). The local stakeholders were represented by (i) Local Authorities; (ii)
Local communities involved in the project; (iii) NGOs and environmental specialists of the local
level and (iv) NGOs and environmental specialists of the central level (Tirana). That last meeting
was justified by the high concentration of NGOs and environmental specialists in Tirana. The
number of participants on the first phase consultation was about 120 persons.
Table 1. Information on the workshops held during the first phase
Date                    City        Participants                         Nr. Of participants
I 0th of January 2003   Saranda     Local authorities                           33
13th of January 2003    Lezhe       Local authorities                           17
14th of January 2003    Durres      Local authorities                           18
28th of January 2003    Lezhe       Local Communities, NGOs and specialists     25
of environment
29th of January 2003    Durres      Local Communities, NGOs and specialists     17
of environment
31st of January 2003    Saranda     Local Communities, NGOs and specialists     11
of environment
19th of February 2003   Tirana      NGOs and specialists of environment based   17
in Tirana
The municipalities hosted six out of seven meetings held on both phases of the consultation
process. In each municipality were held two separate meetings:
1. With Local Authorities and Local Institutions
The participants represented Municipalities, Prefectures, Districts, Water Directorates, Urban
Directorates, Primary Health Directorates, Regional Environmental Agencies and the Water
PIU. Some of the meetings were attended by representatives from the World Bank and
Ministry of Environment.
5



2. With Local Communities and Local NGOs
The participants were representatives of local communities of Lezhe (Shengjin Commune),
Durres and Saranda (Aliko Commune) as well as members of local NGOs, active in the field
of development and nature conservation.
The last workshop of the first phase was held in Tirana, under the auspices of the Albanian
Ministry of Environment. Participants were members of the community of environmental experts
and environmental NGOs.
In each workshop the participants were introduced with the technical report of the project
"Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management". This was made possible through the
distribution of a package containing a detailed overview of the project and technical details on
the CTW of each municipality. Each workshop was based on three presentations by the
Facilitator and the consultant:
*  Objectives and organisation of the public consultation process;
*  The biological and socio-economical importance of the coastal area in the three
municipalities and
*  Detailed description of the GEF project accompanied by sufficient information on the
main findings of the technical report.
At the end of each meeting the participants selected 2-3 spokespersons that were invited to
participate in the second phase workshop.
The first phase was concluded with the compilation of a conflict assessment document entitled
"Report of the First Phase of the Public Consultation Process on Integrated Water and Ecosystem
Management Project".
Copies of the report (in English and Albanian) are available nearby the Water PIU and the World
Bank. The main findings of this report are presented below (in 2. 1.) in order to understand the
framework of the discussions held during the second phase of the consultation process.
6



B. Second Phase
The second phase was organized in three broad consultations (Tab. 2) with elected
representatives of the stakeholders and top-level decision-makers from local (Municipalities,
Communes, Prefectures, Districts, selected spokespersons, Regional Environmental Agencies)
and central Government (Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism, Ministry of
Environment).
Table 2. Information on the workshops held during the first phase
Date                      City-           Nr. of participants
22"d of April 2003        Lezhe                  19
25"' of April 2003        Saranda                15
2Id of May 2003           Durres                 18
The second phase of the consultation process was attended by 50 participants (A complete list of
participants is presented in Annex 2.2.). The meetings were hosted by the respective
Municipalities of Lezhe, Durres and Saranda.
A package containing (i) the first phase report, (ii) the detailed overview of the project and
technical details on the CTW of each municipality; was distributed by mail to every participant.
The three workshops were based on three presentations by the Facilitator and the consultant:
* Objectives and organisation of the public consultation process;
* Technical details on the selected alternatives of CTWs;
* Detailed description of the main findings of the first phase of the consultation process.
The presentations were followed by free discussions on the issues identified during the first
phase of the consultation process.
At the end of the discussion phase, the consultants and the facilitator drafted the main
conclusions and asked for the consensus of all the participants.
7



2. The Main Findings of the Consultation Process
The issued raised during the first phase of the consultation process were classified in two groups:
(i)   Closed issues
Issues on which (after the explanations) the majority of the participants agreed with the
recommendations.
(ii)  Open issues
Issues still pending that needed more discussion and decision-making during the second
phase meetings.
As stressed above, the second phase meetings used the main findings of the first phase as a
basis for discussion.
2.1. Public Consultation on CTWs of Lezhe/Shengjin
2.1.1. First Phase of Public Consultation on CTWs of Lezhe/Shengjin
(i) Closed Issues
1. Nuisance from Mosquitoes and Bad Odours
Participants and more specifically local communities were in general sceptic about the impact of
CTWs in their quality of life. According to them, CTW will increase the number of mosquitoes
and the emission of bad odours. Such factors, they believed, will deteriorate the quality of their
life.
Such concerns were considered as resolvable by the consultants. They explained that that the
CTW will not significantly increase the number of mosquitoes considering that the CTW will be
built in an area already surrounded by numerous wetlands (serving as breeding sites for
mosquitoes). The consultant stressed the fact that if management provisions (described in the
technical report, executive summary and the "schede") are respected, it is not risk of increase of
mosquitoes number. This last statement is valuable also for the risk of bad odours increase.
2. Hydro-geological andflooding risks of the selected alternative
Some of the participants (more specifically the local authorities) were concerned on the potential
hydro-geological risks presented by the selected alternative. Those risks are more related with
8



pollution of ground waters from the wastewaters concentrated in the CTW. Participants asked if
the consultant had undertaken hydro-geological studies in order to deternine the best of
alternatives.
It was clarified that the selected alternative is based on technical and hydro-geological study,
which carefully considered the risks of pollution penetration from CWT to the underground
layers. The construction of CWT includes a layer of 10-1 5cm of clay which serve as waterproof
between the basin of CWT and the underground layers.
Another question was about the risk of flooding by the Drini River that would expand pollution
from CWT into the surrounding areas and more specifically to the Protected Area of Kune-Vaini
dikes. The selected alternative is the safest of all the three alternatives regarding the expected
floods by the Drini River. Anyway, some measurements such as cleaning the bed of the Drini
River on its down stream after of Lezha city might result extremely necessary. Another
improvement is expected also by the recent rehabilitation of the drainage pumping station in the
area (financed by the World Bank).
3. CTW longevity
The participants were very interested to know if the CTWs could be considered as a long-term
solution in the treatment of sewage waters. They asked about the expected longevity of the
CTWs and what will happen after its filling by the deposited sludge.
The consultants argued that sludge will be removed in a 5-year basis and it could be further used
as organic fertilizer for agricultural production. The calculated size and the treatment capacity of
the CTWs were based on the expected number of inhabitants in 20 years. Thus the CTW are
foreseen for a 20 year period. After this period the CTWs may serve either as tertiary system of
Conventional systems, or they could be expended in order to face the increase of the sewage
flow.
4. The transport of sewage waters from Lezhe to the selected CTWs alternative
Local authorities asked on the technical solution for bringing the wastewaters from Lezhe to
CWT proposed. According to them some other accessories (pipelines, pumping stations) are
needed for the full implementation of CTW project.
The consultants informed that the GEF would not finance those activities and that financial
support from other donors (European Bank for Investment, etc) has been envisaged for that
purpose.
Taking into consideration that the real needs for completion of the project require a very big
contribution from the donors, the audience expressed their concern regarding the donors
9



possibility to finance it. In this case, they suggested to GEF to reconsider its policy for financing
not only the CTWs but also some other parts of the project such as pipeline, pumping station etc.
That issue will be further discussed in the second phase meetings.
(ii) Open Issues
1. The inclusion of Shengjin sewage waters in the selected alternative
The Head of Shengjin Commune expressed its dislike for not including the Shengjin wastewater
in the proposed CWT. According to him, such an inclusion will not drastically increase the
demanded CTW budget since the commune is already working on the rehabilitation of sewage
system that is bringing Shengjin wastewaters in Kenalla Lake.
The consultant (SWS) accepted it as a good proposal that should be considered for the inclusion
in the final design.
2. Land availability for the CTWs
According to the participants and more specifically the local communities, the land proposed to
be used by the CTWs is already distributed to local landowners. Obtaining this land would ask
its prior purchase. The prices could be very high considering that the proposed alternatives are
located nearby tourist areas.
The findings of the technical report, based in a very detailed socio-economic study and data
provided by the Land Registration Office have resulted that the land is officially state property
(Ministry of Agriculture). In this case it needs only to make a transfer of the property from
Ministry of Agriculture to Lezha Local Government.
3. Treatment capacity of CTWs of Lezhe
Some participants were of the opinion that the number of inhabitants of the project area was
underestimated by the project.
The consultants clarified that the data regarding the actual number of inhabitants and the rate of
natural growth of the population were provided by the District Census Office, the institution
responsible for statistics relating with population census.
10



4. The conservation of the Protected Area of Kune- Vaini
The participants and more specifically the local NGOs asked if the project had foreseen
management actions towards the conservation of biological resources of Kune-Vaini Protected
Area.
The consultants expressed their positive reply towards this comment. According to them the
project recommends the creation of Kune-Vaini Management Area (KVMA). The objective of
KVMA is the conservation and sustainable management of the Kune-Vaini wetland and Kenalla
lake Protected Areas. The cost of this proposal is estimated in 1. 100,000 US Dollars.
That issue of KVMA will be further discussed in the future meetings (WB, MoE, GDFP)
although it was definitively not controversial during the consultations.
Nevertheless, the results of the discussion between the Albanian Government (MoE) and the
World Bank should be subject of further consultation with local stakeholders. This consultation
process will have the objective of (i) introducing people with the project on KVMA (ii) to listen
to stakeholders' opinions, concerns and suggestions on the issues related with the project (iii)
gain stakeholders support and (iii) increase the effeciency of the management measures foreseen
by the project.
2.1.2. Second Phase of Public Consultation on CTWs of Lezhe/Shengjin
The second phase meeting supported the treatment of sewage waters of Lezhe through the
CTWs. All the participants agreed that CTWs are a good solution for the treatment of
sewage waters running from the city of Lezhe to the surrounding areas of ecological
importance. Participants considered the selected alternative (1st Alternative - Located in
"Ishull Shenglin" near the Merxhani Lagoon) as the most appropriate alternative.
But before going to the final design they suggested that the consultants should verify a few
details related with.
1. Land availability of the CTWs
There was still no clear response on the landownership rights over the proposed territory of
CTWs. In difference form the technical assessment report, some of the participants (District of
11



Lezhe) said that the land might by under private ownership. Obtaining this land would ask its
prior purchase.
It is obvious that the status of ownership over the territory of the proposed CTW need further
verification. Local authorities expressed their commitment to verify this issue but they needed
first an official demand from the PIU of Water Project (Durres). For that reason the PIU has sent
a letter on 23rd April 2003 to the local authorities in order to obtain the official information on
the matter.
2. The evaluation of the population of the project area
According to the mayor of Lezhe the number of inhabitants of the project area is larger that the
figures offered by the technical assessment report. The actual number of inhabitants is 28,000
instead of 18,000 reported by the consultants of SWS and TEI.
The mayor stressed the importance of this fact relating it with the treatment capacity of the
proposed CTW. A different number of inhabitants would certainly bring to the re-evaluation of
the expected number of inhabitants for 2020. If different from the technical assessment report,
than the final design of CTW should change in order to cope with the higher number of
inhabitants and the higher amounts of sewage waters.
Still official information is needed by the municipality of Lezhe. Such information is expected
by the Municipality of Lezhe after the letter sent on 23rd April 2003 from the Water PIU on the
subject.
3. The coordination of CTW project with other sewage projects in Lezha area (PHARE, IOM,
etc)
According to the participants, the decision-making CTW is strictly related to two other sewage
projects that are actually implemented or are going to be implemented in Lezhe area.
There is actually a project including some of the southern quarters of Lezhe that has planned to
poor the sewage waters in Tale, a marshy area south of Lezhe.
It is thus imperative for the CTWs project to be coordinated with the other sewage projects. If
coordination is missing than (i) the CTWs will not collect all the sewage waters of Lezhe but
only a part of them; (ii) a certain amount of sewage waters will still continue to run untreated and
will certainly harm the biodiversity and values of a natural marshy area.
In such a framework the coordination between the GEF project and the other sewage projects
(PHARE, IOM) is desperately needed. Information on the mentioned projects will be offered by
12



the municipality of Lezhe. The Water PIU on 23rd April 2003 sent a letter asking the official
information on the subject.
4. The inclusion of Shenglin in the CTW
All the participants expressed their firm opinion about the inclusion of Shengjin city in the CTW
scheme. The arguments for its inclusion are:
* Shengjin will continue to poor its sewage waters in Kenalla, and will continue to damage
the biodiversity values of Lezhe area
* Untreated sewage waters will harm the touristic values of the entire area of Lezhe, since
Shengjin is one of the most important tourism assets for the whole region of Lezhe.
The inclusion of Shengjin in the CTWs scheme might bring some changes to the final design of
the CTWs. The changes would need some information on:
*  the number of inhabitants in Shengjin area (the figures offered by the technical
assessment report are considered as not very correct by the head of Shengjin's
Commune);
*  The landownership status of the CTWs selected altemative (The new proposed CTWs
should be larger than the first one, in order to include and to coupe with a higher amount
of sewage waters).
As mentioned above Water PIU sent a letter on 23rd April 2003 for having the official
information on the matter.
2.2.   Public Consultation on CTWs of Durres
2.2.1. First Phase of Public Consultation on CTWs of Durres
(i) Closed Issues
1. CTWs or Conventional System
Some of the participants especially in the second meeting (with communities, NGOs,
environmental specialists) asked for the construction of a conventional system instead of the
CTW. According to them the CTW is not e very long-term solution for the city of Durres taking
in account the high number of inhabitant and the recent tendencies for further demographic
increase.
13



The consultants replied that for the moment being, the conventional system is not an option of
GEF financing. Furthermore the conventional system is very expensive and actually it is difficult
to find any donor that would finance it. Only for the city of Durres, the construction of a
conventional system would ask 25 Million US Dollars and some other 3.75 million/year for
ensuring its proper maintenance.
Actually the CWT is considered a good step for the improving the quality of the wastewater
pouring in the sea (Lalzi bay). Taking into consideration the requirements of the water quality in
the beach tourist area in Lalzi bay, in the future Durres needs a conventional system. The
proposed CTW will be integrated as a tertiary system of wastewater treatment.
2. Nuisance from Mosquitoes and Bad Odours
Participants and more specifically local communities were in general sceptic about the
performance of CTWs in terms of:
* Mosquitoes and
*  Bad odours
Participants were in general sceptic about the impact of CTWs in their quality of life. According
to them, CTW will increase the number of mosquitoes and the emission of bad odours. Such
factors, they believed, will deteriorate the quality of their life.
Such concerns were considered as resolvable by the consultants. They explained that that the
CTW will not significantly increase the number of mosquitoes considering that the CTW will be
built in an area already surrounded by numerous wetlands (serving as breeding sites for
mosquitoes). The consultant stressed the fact that if respected the management provisions
(described in the technical report, executive summary and the "schede"), will not allow an
increase of the number of present mosquitoes in the area. In the worst cases (high summer
temperatures, accidents etc.) the system will be helped by chemical agents for reducing them.
Bad odours are also a resolvable problem. The CTW are located far away from urban areas. As
for the mosquitoes the management provisions, potential bad odours will have no impact on the
surroundings.
3. Hydro-geological risks of the selected alternative
According to the participants (more specifically the local authorities) the selected alternative
might present some hydro-geological risks. Those risks are more related with pollution of ground
waters from the wastewaters concentrated in the CTW. Participants asked if the consultant had
undertaken hydro-geological studies in order to determine the best of alternatives.
14



It was clarified that the selected altemative is based on technical and hydro-geological study,
which carefully considered the risks of interchanging of the pollution from CWT and the
underground layers and vice versa. The construction of CWT includes a layer of 10-1 5cm of clay
which serve as waterproof between the basin of CWT and the underground layers.
4. The transport of sewage waters from Durres to the selected CTW alternative
As in Lezha, taking into consideration that the real needs for completion of the project requires a
very big contribution from the donors (more than 8 km pipeline, a second pumping station etc),
the audience expressed their concern regarding the donors' possibility to finance it. In this case
they suggested to GEF to reconsider its policy for financing even some other accessories
(pipelines, pumping station, etc) of the project and not only CWT.
The consultants informed that the GEF would not finance those activities and that financial
support from other donors (European Bank for Investment) has been envisaged for that purpose.
(ii) Open Issues
1. Landownership issues related with the selected alternative
According to some of the participants (representatives of the urbanism inspectorate - Prefecture
of Durres), the second alternative (Porto-Romano) might have landownership problems because
most parts of the land are already distributed to the private people. Obtaining it for the project
purposes would ask its prior purchase.
That picture is different from the findings of the technical assessment report. This report, based
in a very detailed soeio-economic study, have resulted that the land is officially state property.
Definitively this issue will be reconsidered again for clarification with the high level
rapresentants in the second phase of the workshops.
2. Discussion on the location of the C7TW
The participants had two proposals regarding the geographical location of the CTWs of Durres:
A. CTW located in the former fish farms (Shen V7ash) - First Alternative
The first meeting (local authorities) supported the first alternative i.e. the location of the CTW in
the former fish farms (Shen Vlash) of Durres.
According to them, (1) in difference from Porto-Romano (Second Alternative), Shen-Vlash
(First Alternative) is not an area of potential tourism development. As such, it is more feasible to
15



create the CTWs in Shen Vlash rather than in Porto-Romano, (2) The fish farms in Shen Vlash
(First Alternative) have no landownership problems while Porto-Romano (Second Alternative)
might have some, (3) The fish farms (first alternative) were large enough (210 ha.) to shelter the
CTW
This proposal had nevertheless its weak points
*  According to most of the stakeholders, Porto-Romano may not be considered as tourism
development area because recently the Albanian Government gave the permission to
build a complex of oil tankers very closed to this area. The presence of oil tankers
jeopardizes every possibility of tourism development.
* The First Alternative (fish farms in Shen Vlash), although cheaper than the second one
(Porto-Romano), was not supported by some stakeholders because this area has
potentials for the future urban development of Durres city. Thus the CTW would be
relatively close to the urban area.
B. CTW located in Porto-Romano - Second Alternative.
Taking into account the considerations mentioned above as well as the presence of some illegal
building in the area of Porto Romano, it was proposed to see the possibility to set up the CWT
more inside (in the east direction) of the ex-swampy area. In the other hand this will avoid all
the issues raised on tourist aspects, and the problems regarding the land ownership. This
proposal was considered as very useful by the consultants and it needs to be evaluated in the
second phase meetings.
2.2.2. Second Phase of Public Consultation on CTWs of Durres
The second phase meeting supported the treatment of sewage waters of Durres through the
CTWs. All the participants agreed that CTWs are actually a good solution for the
treatment of sewage waters running from the city of Durres to the surrounding areas of
ecological importance. Participants considered the selected alternative (II'd Alternative -
Located in Porto-Romano) as the most appropriate alternative.
But before going to the final design they suggested that the consultants should verify a few
details related with.
16



1. Porto-Romano was selected as the most appropriate alternative for the CTWs
The majority of the participants agreed that the second alternative (Porto-Romano) was better
than the first one (former fish farms of Shen Vlash). (i) Porto-Romano alternative had no
problems with the future urban development of the city of Durres; (ii) Porto-Romano alternative
was more supportive to the enhancement of biodiversity values of Durres area (iii) and obviously
Porto-Romano is not a priority area for the development of coastal tourism.
The first altemative is less appropriate because  (i) it is an area of potential enlargement for
new settlements of Durres; (ii) It is less supportive to the environment because it is far away
from the existing areas of environmental importance and faces thus problems related with
the fragmentation of natural habitats.
2. Landownership rights over the territory of Porto-Romano alternative
Participants were divided on the issue of landownership rights over the territory of the second
alternative in Porto-Romano. Some of the participants believed that the land was under state
ownership while the other group believed that the land has been already privatised. It is obvious
that this issue needs further verification nearby the responsible authorities i.e. the Prefecture of
Durres. The PIU of Durres has officially requested the needed information on 4th of May 2003.
3. Porto-Romano (Second Alternative) or Shen Vlash (First alternative)
Participants agreed that if the second alternative (Porto-Romano) is not feasible (due to
landownership problems), than the first alternative (former fish farms in Shen Vlash) could be
adopted for the CTWs. In difference from Porto-Romano alternative, Shen Vlash alternative
apparently represents no landownership problems. According to the mayor of Durres, the
majority of this land belongs to the municipality of Durres.
2.3. Public Consultation on CTWs of Saranda
2.3.1. First Phase of Public Consultation on CTWs of Saranda
(i) Closed Issues
1. Conventional systems instead of CTW
Some of the participants, especially in the first meeting (local authorities) asked for the
construction of a conventional system instead of the CTW. According to them the CTW is not e
17



very long-term solution for the city of Saranda taking into account the high number of inhabitant
and the recent tendencies for further demographic increase, and the relatively "low" efficiency of
the CWT (about 70%) for the beach tourist area.
The consultants replied that for the moment being, the conventional system is not an option of
GEF financing. Furthermore the conventional system is very expensive and actually it is difficult
to find any donors to finance it. Only for the city of Saranda, the construction of a conventional
system would ask some 6 Million US Dollars and some other 1.8 million/year for ensuring its
proper maintenance. Actually the CWT is considered a good step for the improving the quality
of the wastewater pouring in Saranda bay. Taking into consideration the requirements of the
water quality in the beach tourist area in Saranda bay, in the future Saranda needs a conventional
system. The proposed CTW will be integrated as a tertiary system of wastewater treatment.
Some other participants proposed to treat the wastewater by pouring them directly by a pipeline
in the depth of the sea.
This alternative was not accepted because
a. this is out of GEF policy financing;
b. Saranda waters are considered as transborder waters (Albania and Greece) and there is an
evident risk of claiming by the Greek authorities.
2. Advantages/disadvantages of the CTW
Participants and more specifically local communities were in general sceptic about the
performance of CTWs in terms of:
* Mosquitoes and
* Bad odours
Such concerns were considered as resolvable by the consultants. They explained that that the
CTW will not significantly increase the number of mosquitoes considering that the CTW will be
built in an area already surrounded by numerous wetlands (serving as breeding sites for
mosquitoes). The consultant stressed the fact that if will be respected the management provisions
(described in the technical report, executive summary and the "schede"), it is not expected an
increase of the number of present mosquitoes in the area.
In the worst cases (high summer temperatures) the system will be helped by chemical agents for
reducing them.
The same about the risk of increasing the bad odours.
18



3. CTWs' carrying capacity
According to one of the participants (local authorities) the number of inhabitants of the project
area during summer season was underestimated by the project leading to miscalculation of the
size and the treatment capacity of the CTW.
The consultants agreed with the question, but it is accepted that CTW will work overloaded
during the summer season lowing from 70% into 50% their efficiency.
4. Hydro-geological risks of the selected alternative
The selected alternative might present some hydro-geological risks for pollution of the calcaire
rocks in the area.
It was clarified that a lawyer of 10-15 cm is foreseen in the design serving as waterproof to the
rocky underground.
1. Open Issues
1.   CTWs location
The second meeting suggested that the CTW could have a potential impact on tourism. They
proposed for CTW to be located "further east" of the proposed location. Such a removal would
position the CTW far away from the coastal line (areas of potential tourism importance). Thus
the CTW would have a smaller direct impact in the tourist areas and/or indirect impact
(psychological effect over tourists) over economic activities related to tourism. That proposal
was supported also by the representatives of the commune because the CTW would thus fall
inside the territory of the former agricultural enterprise. This issue will be also discussed in the
second phase of the workshops.
2.   Landownership problems related with the selected alternative
According to some of the participants of the second meeting (local communities), the selected
alternative (3rd option) might have landownership problems because it has been already
distributed in use to 80-90 farmers. This issue will be clarified in the second phase of the public
consultation with the high level of participants. It is believed that the state is the owner of the
land (Ministry of Agriculture), which is distributed in use to the farmers for a certain period. The
state has the right to take back this land in case of public purposes.
19



2.3.2. Second Phase of Public Consultation on CTWs of Saranda
The second phase meeting supported the treatment of sewage waters of Saranda through
the CTWs. All the participants agreed that CTWs are actually a good solution for the
treatment of sewage waters running from the city of Saranda to the surrounding areas of
ecological importance. Participants considered the selected alternative (Ild Alternative -
Located south of Cuka channel, beyond the existing river protection dike) as the most
appropriate alternative.
There were nevertheless some discussions regarding the selected altemative in terms of
1. The location of the selected alternative (south of Cuka channel, beyond the existing river
protection dike)
The participants still want to displace the CTW in the eastem direction for about 100 or 200
meters. Their concem for the proposed altemative is that the CTW  is situated very close
Bradaneshi, a small group of houses very close to Saranda-Ksamili road. In the other hand, the
participants argued that this would reduce the psychological effect of the CTW over tourists
visiting Saranda area.
2. The landownership problems of the selected alternative.
Obviously there are not problems of the private ownership in the proposed area for developing
the CTW. Based on the workshop discussions, the land is still under the state ownership
represented by the Ministry of Agriculture. Nevertheless such information needs to be
reconfirmed nearby the local authorities (Prefecture of Vlora Region, Directorate of Agriculture
and Food, Registration Office and Cadastral Office). The Deputy Prefect of Vlora and Saranda,
present in the workshop, promised to provide the official confirmation regarding the status of
land ownership of the CTW area.
20



2. CONCLUSIONS
The conclusions of the public consultation process are based on a good and active participation
of all the stakeholders. Their appreciation towards the public consultation process was expressed
also in the interviews organized by the World Bank and the facilitator.
The respondents agreed with the consultation workshop in terms of fulfilling their expectations
and achieving its announced objectives. They considered the public consultation process a very
good experience for them and expressed the necessity to follow up with such an experience for
all the other projects in Albania, especially for the environmental projects. Almost all the
participants stressed the fact that the consultation process increased their knowledge on natural
wastewater treatments.
The majority of the participants approved the technical findings of the GEF Project
"Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management". The CTWs are widely accepted as
feasible. All the participants agreed that CTWs are actually a good solution for the
treatment of sewage waters running from the cities of Lezhe, Durres and Saranda.
The majority of the issues raised during the consultation process were considered as closed. i.e.
participants were convinced that:
> The proposed CTWs alternatives represent a good approach for the treatment of sewage
waters;
>  CTWs had no negative impact on tourist activities in the three cities and inmore
particularly in Saranda-Butrint and Porto-Romano;
> CTWs represent no nuisance in terms of Mosquitoes and Bad Odours;
>  CTWs represent no hydro-geological andflooding risks;
>  CTWs do not harm the environment of the Protected Area of Kune-Vaini (Lezhe). In
addition GEF is going to finance 1,1 million dollars for the conservation of this
ecologically important area;
>  CTWs longevity is sufficient enough to ensure the successful mid-term treatment of
sewage waters;
>  CTWs carrying capacity is sufficient enough for the successful treatment of the sewage
waters of Durres and Saranda
21



The question of financing additional accessories remains still open and needs the
commitment of other donors (Euopean Bankfor Investment, etc.).
As explained above, there are still some issues that would need further verification and
elaboration.
(i)   Land availability of the CTWs
Since there is still no clear situation on the landownership rights over the proposed territory of
CTWs. An official answer is expected by the Local Authorities after the letters sent from the
Water PIU on this matter.
(ii)   The inclusion of Shengjin in the CTWs scheme
All the participants expressed their firm opinion about the inclusion of Shengjin city in the CTW
scheme. The potential inclusion of Shengjin in the CTWs scheme might need to resize the design
of the CTWs for Lezha.
(iii) The re-evaluation of the population of Lezhe project area
Before going to the final design of CTWs, it is very crucial to verify the number of inhabitants
for the project area of Lezhe. According to the mayor of Lezhe the number of inhabitants of the
project area is larger that the figures offered by the technical assessment report. The actual
number of inhabitants is 28,000 instead of 18,000 reported by the consultants of SWS and TEI.
Still, official information is needed from Lezhe municipality. PIU of Waters Project in Durres
sent an official letter asking this kind of information.
(iv)  The coordination of CTWs project with other sewage projects in Lezha area (PHARE,
IOM, etc)
CTWs project in Lezhe needs coordination with the other sewage projects. If this coordination is
missing than (i) the CTWs will not collect all the sewage waters of Lezhe but only a part of
them; (ii) a certain amount of sewage waters will still continue to run untreated and will certainly
harm the biodiversity and values of a natural marshy area.
Information on the mentioned projects will be offered by the municipality of Lezhe. Water PIU
is waiting for the official information from Lezha Municipality on the matter.
22



(v)   Porto-Romano (Second Alternative) or Slien Vlash (First alternative)
Participants agreed that Porto Romano alternative is more appropriate approach. In case that this
alternative is not feasible (due to landownership problems), than the first alternative (former fish
farms in Shen Vlash) could be adopted for the CTWs. In difference from Porto-Romano
alternative, Shen Vlash alternative apparently represents no landownership problems. According
to the mayor of Durres, the majority of this land belongs to the municipality of Durres.
(vi)  The location of the selected alternative for Saranda
The participants still want to displace the CTW (south of Cuka channel, beyond the existing
river protection dike) in the eastern direction for about 100 or 200 meters. The displacement will
locate the CTWs far from Bradaneshi, a small group of legal houses very close to Saranda-
Ksamili road, and it would reduce the psychological effect of the CTWs over tourists visiting
Saranda area.
Besides the issues related with the construction of the CTWs in the three cities, there is still
a need for further consultation on the implementation of the KVMA project
As mentioned in 2.1. 1., the issue of KVMA is still subject of discussion between the WB, MoE,
and GDFP. Nevertheless, the results of this discussion should be subject of further consultation
with local stakeholders. This consultation process will have the objective of (i) introducing
people with the project on KVMA (ii) listening the stakeholders' opinions, concerns and
suggestions on the issues related with the project (iii) gaining stakeholders support and (iii)
increasing the effeciency of the management measures foreseen by the project.
At the end of this consultation process it is evident that the main issues that need to be
verified are:
* the land availability (in the three cities) of the CTWs;
* the population of Lezhe project area
Based on this information the consultants (SWS & TEI) should elaborate the final design in
order to fit the following requirements:
* The inclusion of Shengjin in the CTWs scheme
* The coordination of CTWs project with other sewage projects in Lezha area (PHARE,
IOM, etc)
23



* The selection of the most appropriate alternative for Durres (Porto-Romano or Shen
Vlash)
* The displacement (100-200 m) of the selected altemative for Saranda
24



Annex 1. Evaluation of the Public Consultation Process
Objectives
This evaluation was conducted to gauge the opinion and experiences of the participants at the
three first meetings of the first phase consultation process for the GEF Integrated Water and
Ecosystem Management Project held in Saranda, Lezha, and Durres in Albania.
1. Methodology
The evaluation questionnaire included a total of 13 questions including open- and close- ended
questions. The responses from the close-ended questions were measured on 1-5 scale.
Six quantitative questions were aimed at measuring the opinions of the respondents regarding the
expectations, objectives, role of the facilitator, presentations, usefulness, and overall level of
satisfaction.
One question was asked to measure participants' opinion about the usefulness of the information
they gathered during the consultation workshop.
A cluster of five quantitative questions was aimed at assessing how balanced the consultation
was. These questions included different aspects such as how much attention was paid to
individual opinion and technical issues, timings of presentations and participation, and pace of
the consultation.
2. MAIN FINDINGS
A total of eight 36 participants out of 44 responded to the evaluation questionnaire. Following
are some of the main results of the quantitative questions. I
RESPONDENTS' CURRENT POSITIONS AND REASON FOR PARTICIPATION IN THE CONSULTATION
Most of the respondents (55.6%) said they either were representing government in the
consultation workshop.
Majority of the respondents (41.7%) stated that they participated in the consultation to express
their views on the subject while about one third (33.3%) of them said they wanted to learn more
about the subject.
EXPECTATIONS AND OBJECTIVES
Data analysis shows that the respondents were very positive about the consultation workshop in
terms of fulfilling their expectations and achieving its announced objectives.
The mean score for the questions on expectations was 4.00 on a 1-5 scale2 while the score was
4.18 for fulfilling the announced objectives of the consultation.
FACILITATOR AND PRESENTATION
The high ratings for the questions on the facilitator (mean score of 4.48 on a 1-5 scale3) and the
presentations (4.47) show that respondents had a very good opinion about the facilitator's role in
managing the consultation and the presentations delivered during the consultation.
' Results for all quantitative questions of the evaluation are presented later in this report.
2 Questions on expectation and objectives were ranked on a 1-5 scale, I meaning "not at all" and 5 meaning "very
much."
25



USEFULNESS AND SATISFACTION
Mean scores show that the respondents had a very positive experience in terms of overall
usefulness and satisfaction with the consultation. The mean score for the question on usefulness
was 4.65 on a 1-54 scale and 4.35 for overall level of satisfaction.
INFORMATION SHARING
The mean score (4.43 on a 1-5 scale5) on the question related to information sharing show that
the respondents had a very positive view in terms of increasing their knowledge on natural
wastewater treatment. Respondents were asked to rate their level of agreement with the
statement that said: "My information on natural waste treatments increased as a result of this
consultation."
HOW BALANCED THE CONSULTATION WAS
Data analysis shows that the respondents had a fairly positive opinion about the question of how
balanced the consultation was. A set of five questions was asked to measure this issue. The
questions included aspects such as how much attention was paid to individual opinion and
technical  issues,  time   for  the  presentations  for  consultants/facilitator,  time  for
participation/intervention, and the pace of the consultation. All the five questions in this section
6
ranked between 3 and 4 on a 1-5 scale . The question on the time for the presentations of the
consultants/facilitator ranked the highest (mean score of 3.42) whiles the questions on the time
for participation/intervention ranked the lowest (mean score of 3.00).
2.7. Recommendations
Results of the evaluation show that there is a need to focus on better allocation of time for the
participants to take part in the discussion during the consultation process. Compared to the other
aspects of the consultation, it is apparent that more attention needs to be paid to individual
opinion and technical issues.
2.8. Qualitative questions
From the analysis of the open-ended questions it appears that participants valued the consultation
process especially for making available useful information about the project and its
environmental aspects as well as offering a venue for expressing opinions and discuss about
important issues. At the same time, they considered that the consultation process could be
improved by providing more information on the technical aspects. Most of the respondents are
rather optimistic about the impact of the consultation on future developments.
Questions on facilitator and presentations were rated on a 1-5 scale, I meaning "very poor" and 5 meaning "very
food."
Questions on usefulness and satisfaction were rated on a 1-5 scale, I meaning "very low" and 5 meaning "very
high."
5Questions on information sharing were rated on a 1-5 scale, I meaning "strongly disagree" and 5 meaning
"strongly agree."
6 Questions were ranked on a 1-5 scale, I meaning "insufficient" and 5 meaning "excessive."
26



All Question Mean Scores
4. To what extentdid the consultation fulfilled your
expectations?                               _                 4.00
5. To what extent did the consultation achieve its
announced objectives?              EE                              4.18
6. How would you rate the role of the facilitator in |                __     .
managing the consultation?                                             814.48
7. How would you rate the presentations delivered
during the consultation?         [E                                     4.47
8. How would you rate the overall usefulness of the !T
consultation?               [E         EI4 65
9 How would you rate your overall level of satisfaction
0               with the consultation?                             _         _35
a  10. My information on natural waste water treatments                                 .43
CY      increased as a resultofthis consultation?                    I                   .43
1 a. Attenfion to individual opinion [;            IE     41
1 lb. Attention to technical issues |              E331
11 c. Time for consultants'/facilitator presentations |                B.42
11 d. Time for your participabon/interventon               3|00
1 1e. Pace ofthe consultabon |                    317
1.00  1.50 2.00  2.50 3.00 3.50 4.00 4.50   5 00
Mean Score
27



Sorted Mean Scores for All Question
1 id. Time for your participationlintervention               3.00
le.Paceoftheconsultation                           3.17
11 b. Attention to technical issues                   J 3.31
1 a. Attention to individual opinion |  -           .    3.41
11 c. Time for consultants/facilitator presentations  .42
4. To what extentdid the consultation fulfilled your |                 F. A
K....1~~~~~4.00
o                    eipectations?                              -.
w
5. To whatextentdid the consultation achieve its      4-        .         - 1.1
°                 announced objectives?           |_ '-_______________
9. How would you rate your overall level of satisfaction                             4.35
with the rconsultation?! - -;I'.3
10. Myinformation on natural wastewatertreatments 1 i                         *      4.43
increased as a result of this consultation?                                      w.43
7. How would you rate the presentations delivered        .   -                     4
during the consultation?                                 ,.
6. How would you rate the role of the facilitator in
managing the consultation?            . -        ;            .      -   4.48
8. How would you rate the overall usefulness of the P  . .  f  .  -4-5
consultation?                   :           ' -    '                 I'
1.00  1 50 2.00  2.50  3.00 3.50 4.00 4.50   5.00
Mean Score
28



Evaluation for Consultation Workshop
Results of All Questions
1. What was your main reason/interest for attending the consultation?
Cumulative
Frequency   Percent  Valid Percent   Percent
Valid    To share information       8       22.2         22.9         22.9
To express my views       15       41 7         42.9         65.7
on the subject
To leam more about        12       33.3         34.3        100.0
the subject
Total                     35       97.2        100.0
Missing  System                     1        2.8
Total                              36      100.0
3. Who did you represent in the consultation?
Cumulative
Frequency____ _  Percent  Valid Percent  Percent
Valid    Government                   20       55.6         62.5         62.5
Civil society organization    3        8.3          9.4         71.9
Other                         9       25.0         28.1        100.0
Total                        32       88.9        100.0
Missing  System                        4       11.1
Total                                 36      100.0
29



Descriptive Statistics
N        Mean     Std. Deviation
4. To what extent did the
consultation fulfilled your   34       4 00           .95
expectations?
5. To what extent did the
consultation achieve its      33       4.18           .81
announced objectives?
6. How would you rate the
role of the facilitator in    29       4.48           .78
managing the
consultation?
7. How would you rate the
presentations delivered       34       4.47           .71
during the consultation?
8. How would you rate the
overall usefulness of the     34       4.65           .60
consultation?
9. How would you rate
your overall level of
satisfaction with the                                .73
consultation?
10. My information on
natural waste water
treatments increased as       35       4.43           .81
a result of this
consultation?
1 la. Attention to individual  32      3.41           .76
opinion
11 b. Attention to technical  32       3.31           .59
issues
11 c. Time for
consultants'/facilitator      33       3.42          1.09
presentations
11 d. Time for your           29       3.00           .93
participation/intervention
1 e. Pace of the              12       3.17           .58
consultation
30



Annex 2. List of participants in the meetings held during the first phase of the consultation
process.
A. PARTICIPANTS OF THE FIRST PHASE WORKSHOPS
LEZIE - I" WORKSHOP IN-LEZtHA'- LOCAL AUTHORITIES (13/01/03)
1. Linda Maci                 Office of juridical and foreign affairs
2.  Pashk Biba                Services Office
3. Ndue Koleci                Head of the Shengjin Commune
4.  Medi Gazi                 Urban Sector
5.  Petrit Gjoni              Forestry Service
6.  Preng Vorfi               Forestry Police
7.  Zef Maci                  Water Supply and Sewage System
8.  Dolor Leka                Engineer (Water Supply and Sewage System)
9.  Jak Gjini                 Head of Regional Environmental Agency
10. Vath Gabili               Inspector of REA
11. Gjok Jaku                 Mayor of Lezhe
12. Arben Bejtja              Deputy Mayor of Lezhe
13. Arben Bakllamaja          World Bank
14. Andreas Rohde             World Bank
15. Claudio Purificato        World Bank
16. Genci Gjeci               PIU Director, MTAT
17. Claudio Serrini           SWS Consultant
18. Ndricim Shani             PIU Consultant
19. Daniele Calabrese         World Bank
20. Taulant Bino              Facilitator of the Consultation Process
LEZH{E - D V OSHOP -LOCAL COMMNITIES (2/01/
1. Vasil Martini        Ishull-Shengjin
2.  Kujtim Alia         Fisherman
3.  Prel Malaj          Fisherman
4.  Cesk Koldoda        Ishull-Shengjin
5. Fran Prelaj          Ishull-Shengjin
6. Fatmir Delishi       Chemistry specialist
7. Yllson Zeneli        Economist, Director of Primary Health
8.  Pashk Dragusha      Agronomist
9. Pjeter Kola          Veterinary
10. Osman Elezi        Retired
11. Ndue Lika          Retired
12. Jak Gjini          Head of Regional Environmental Agency
13. Ndue Koleci        Head of Shengjin Commune
14. Zef Ymeraj         Head of "Ecological Club"
15. Gjergj Elezi       Head of "Environment, Education and Health"
16. Gege Ndoka         "Environment, Education and Health"
17. Fatmir Dushkaj      Swiss Caritas in Lezhe
18. Qazim Dushku       Psychologist (Education Directorate)
19. Dila Frani          Biologist (Education Directorate)
20. Gjin Ndoka          Geographer (Education Directorate)
21. Faik Bejtja         Head of Cleaning Office
22. Mark Simoni         Biologist (Lezhe Municipality)
31



23. Zef Nikolla         Director of High School "Gjergj Fishta"
24. Violeta Vurca       Economist, Caritas Switzerland
25. Ndue Gila           Teacher (Biologist)
Du iRRES - I ""'R  110OP_ LOCX L AT_H_RITIES(J4/0l/43)
1. Thanas Lati          Services Office
2.  Shefqet Hyka        Development Program Office
3.  Vasil Gjoni         Services Office
4.  Ekaterina Zoto      Health Office
5.  Astrit Hysaj        Secretary of the Municipality Council
6.  Ditika Ziu          Environmental Office
7.  Besnik Kertusha     Deputy Major (Municipality of Durres)
8.  Myslym Kaculi       Forestry Service
9.  Avdulla Hasani      Inspector of Forestry Service
10. Muhamed Mema        Head of Consulting Sevice (Directorate of Agriculture and Food)
11. Lefter Lulo         Fishery Inspector (DAF)
12. Nadire Jani         Public Health Service
13. Dhurata Qesja       Primary Health Service
14. Eqerem Kapedani     Vice-Director of Fishery Research Institute
15. Ilir Qesja          Head of Regional Environmental Agency
16. Artin Demiri       Inspector of REA
17. Zamir Dedej         Ministry of Environment
18. Ndricim Shani       Consultant of PIU (Water Project)
19. Genci Gjeci         Director of PIU - Water Project (MTAT)
20. Claudio Serrini     WS Consultant
21. Daniele Calabrese   World Bank
22. Claudio Purificato  World Bank
23. Taulant Bino        Facilitator
DuRREs -      WORKSHOP -_ LOCAL COMMUNITIES (29/01/03)
1. Hajdar Kovaci              Architect
2.  Estref Haxhialushi        Botanist (Retired)
3.  Sali Bajo                 Physician/Friend of Environment and Nature
4.  Andon Papingji            Dr. of Agricultural Sciences
5.  Koco Miho                 Architect (Retired)
6.  Gani Buka                 Chamber of Commerce - Durres
7.  Ekaterina Zoto            Citizen/Prefecture of Durres
8.  Selami Dakolli            Deputy Mayor (Municipality of Durres)
9.  Vasillaq Gega             Physician
10. Edgar Frasheri            Architect
11. Viktor Dhimgjini          Architect
12. Bardhyl Balteza           Chemistry specialist
13. Tasim Besho               Friends of Nature and Environment
14. Zeqir Taga                Fishery Association
15. Pellumb Berisha                 Deputy
16. Ndricim Shani             Consultant (PIU - Water Project (MTAT)
17. Taulant Bino              Facilitator
32



SARANDE)_1 -r  ORKSHOP - Loc\LAtTlIIORIIT-IESf(10/01/03)
1. Timoleo Kajo                Deputy Mayor of Saranda
2. Dashmir Peci                Directorate of Agriculture and Food
3. Donika Birjani              Water Directorate
4. Entela Skendaj              Council of District - Vlora
5. Apostol Qiko                Geological Service - Vlora
6. Gjergji Mano                Office of Tourism Development
7. Robert Piro                 Services Office - Saranda
8. Lea Gjicali                 KRRT
9. Haxhi Musai                 Head of Urban Development Sector
10. Shkelqim Hajno             "Ionian Profesional Journalist Association
11. Feruz Basha                Forestry Service
12. Baftjar Imeri              Head of Services Office - Saranda
13. Gjergji Mano               Head of Foreign Office - Saranda
14. Aleks Prifti               Primary Health Service
15. Frederik Deraj             Water Supply and Sewage System
16. Areti Papadhima            Regional Environmental Agency - Saranda
17. Luiza Zanaj                Regional Environmental Agency - Vlora
18. Zamir Dedej                Ministry of Environment
19. Shkelqim Hajno             Journalist
20. Artur Mazi                 Engineer
21. Vladimir Gino              Consultant for the Sewage System Rehabilitation Project
22. M. Agaj                    Supervisor
23. Arben Bakllamaja           World Bank
24. Xavier Chauvot de Beauchene  World Bank
25. Andreas Rohde              World Bank
26. Claudio Purificato         World Bank
27. Genci Gjeci                PIU Director, MTAT
28. Claudio Serrini            SWS Consultant
29. Ndricim Shani              PIU Consultant
30. Daniele Calabrese          World Bank
31. Taulant Bino               Facilitator of the Consultation Process
S-ARANDA-UN %D \ ORKSSHOP - LOCA L C'ONIMl tINITLES (31101/03)
1. Mitro Zhupa          Geologist
2. Qani Sejdini         Environmental Association of Saranda (Forestry Engineer)
3. Pushime Demko        "Environment and Tourism" Association
4. Aleks Naco           Aliko Commune
5. Pellumb Ademi        Cuka village
6. Areti Papadhima      Engineer
7. Agim Mato            Agimi Association, "Jimi Monako" Culture Center
8. Robert Lala          Agimi Association, "Jimi Monako" Culture Center
9. Gjergji Mano         Office of Tourism Development
10. Suzana Mehmeti     Office of Tourism Development
11. Shkelqim Hajno     "Ionian Profesional Journalist" Association
12. Mitro Zhupa        Geologist
13. Baftjar Imeri       Geologist
14. Taulant Bino        Facilitator
33



TRA - W0RKSHOP W1TH NGOS AND            ECISTS802/03)
1. Besnik Baraj               Deputy Minister (Ministry of Environment)
2. Enkelejda Patozi           Value Add - Consultancy Company
3. Entela Cobani              Faculty of Construction Engineering
4. Anni Koci                  GEF/Small Grants Programme
5. Arben Bakllamaja           World Bank
6. Perikli Qiriazi            Geography Department (Tirana University)
7. Lirim Selfo                PMU Ohrid Project (MoE)
8. Dhimiter Haxhimihali       Fac. of Nat. Sciences/Association of Industrial Ecology
9. Niko Pano                  Association for the Preservation of Coastal Waters
10. Xhemal Mato               Masmedia and Environment
11. Arben Pustina             MedWetCoast Project
12. Mihallaq Qirjo            Regional Environmental Center
13. Violeta Zuna              MedWetCoast Project
14. Aleko Miho                PPNEA/ FNS
15. Sajmir Beqiraj            APAWA/Museum of Natural Sciences
16. Ferdinand Bego            ASPBM/Museum of Natural Sciences
17. Marieta Mima              ECAT-Tirana
18. Zamir Dedej               Director of Nature Conservation Department (MoE)
19. Ndricim Shani             Consultant - PTU (Water Project)
20. Taulant Bino              Facilitator
34



B. PARTICIPANTS OF THE SECOND PHASE WORKSHOPS
LEZHE - FIN -%L WORKSHOP (22/04F/03
1. Gjok Jaku            Mayor of Lezhe
2. Luigj Isufi          Head of Lezhe District
3. Ndue Koleci          Head of the Shengjin Commune
4. Pjeter Kola          Lezhe Municipality
5. Edi Zhubi            Lezhe Municipality
6. Rita Lacaj           Lezhe Municipality
7. Martin Dedaj         Council of Lezhe District
8. Gezim Ndoj           Service Office (Prefecture of Lezhe)
9. Hasan Muca           Head of Coordination Office (Prefecture of Lezhe)
10. Zef Magi            Water Supply and Sewage System
11. Jak Gjini           Head of Regional Environmental Agency
12. Tonin Ndreka        Forestry Service Directorate of Lezhe
13. Zef Ymeraj          Head of "Ecological Club"
14. Gjergj Elezi        Head of "Environment, Education and Health"
15. Mirela Kamberi      Pollution Directorate - Director, Ministry of Environment
16. Besnik Baraj        Deputy Minister of Environment
17. Genci Gjeci         PIU Director, MTAT
18. Ndricim Shani       PIU Consultant
19. Taulant Bino        Facilitator of the Consultation Process
DURRES - FINAL WORKSHOP(02/5I/03)!
1. Miri Hoti            Mayor of Durres
2. Besnik Kertusha      Deputy Major (Municipality of Durres)
3. Edmond Agolli        Municipality of Durres
4. Roland Xhelili       Prefecture of Durres
5. Vasil Gjoni          Services Office (Prefecture of Durres)
6. Liri Domi            Public Health Service
7. Dhurata Qesja        Primary Health Service
8. Edgar Frasheri       Architect
9. Ilir Qesja           Head of Regional Environmental Agency
10. Artin Demiri        Inspector of REA
11. Pellumb Berisha     Deputy
12. Bajram Mejdiaj      Ministry of Environment
13. Zamir Dedej         Ministry of Environment
14. Besnik Baraj        Deputy Minister (Ministry of Environment)
15. Arben Demeti        Deputy Minister (Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism)
16. Genci Gjeci         PIU Director, MTAT
17. Ndricim Shani       PIU Consultant
18. Taulant Bino        Facilitator of the Consultation Process
SA   NEFNA          I   -H6N
1. Timoleo Kajo                Deputy Mayor of Saranda
2. Rajmonda Gjoni              Deputy Prefect of Saranda district
3. Kristo Kaishi               Head of Aliko Commune
4. Entela Skendaj              Council of District - Vlora
35



5. Baftjar Imenr              Head of Services Office - Saranda
6. Areti Papadhima           Regional Environmental Agency - Saranda
7. Luiza Zanaj               Regional Environmental Agency - Vlora
8. Vladimir Gjino            Consultant for the Sewage System Rehabilitation Project
9. Qani Sejdini              Forestry Service Directorate of Saranda
10. Apostol Qiko             Geological Service Vlore-Sarande
11. Zamir Dedej              Ministry of Environment
12. Pellumb Abeshi           Secretary General (Ministry of Environment)
13. Genci Gjeci              PIU Director, MTAT
14. Ndricim Shani            PIU Consultant
15. Taulant Bino             Facilitator of the Consultation Process
36



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Annex 5
STRENGTHENING OF THE MANAGEMENT, MONITORING AND ENFORCEMENT
CAPACITY IN WETLAND AND COASTAL AREAS
Environmental Assessment
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Strengthening of the management, monitoring and enforcement capacity in wetland
and coastal areas
1.0       Project background
The project proposal refers to the polluted areas of Durres, Lezhe and Saranda, characterized
by different morphological, hydrological and biological features. Wetland construction
combined with primary and secondary stages of treatment plants have been envisaged as
future solutions to reduce environmental pollution and preserve the biodiversity.
The implementation of the wetland construction project implies the existence and availability
of water quality standards and of assessment procedures, to compare and to evaluate the
correspondence of the intervention results with the expected rehabilitation objectives and
biodiversity preservation.
This means to increase progressively the enforcement capacity of controlling the
environmental processes and of introducing EIA procedures.
Suitable priority sites for intervention will be those where defense and protection of natural
resources and biodiversity are emphasized and reduction of water pollution can produce
more consistent direct and indirect benefits.
As a consequence, links between water quality standards, monitoring activities and impact
assessment procedures have to be searched and analyzed, to implement the enforcement
capacity.
2.0        Project objectives
This proposal concems the consultancy and the assistance of the Ministry of Environment in
enhancing the management of the wetlands and coastal areas, involved by intervention works
implementation, under the GEF-component.
Proposal is to promote a "Pilot Project", to enforce and harmonize, to European standards,
some of the existing or under implementation environmental laws, issued by MoE.
The project components will concem:
*  Water quality monitoring and enforcement. The monitoring of effluent quality
and compliance with Albanian Standards are the responsibility of MoE. Application
procedures will be studied and organized;
*  An implementation and specification of the "Environmental Impact Assessment"
during and after works in protected areas, where pollution control and natural
resources protection are often associated with Sustainable Development Planning.
The specific EIA during works for these Areas should represent a Decisional
Support System, for the reliability estimate and efficiency verification of the
Intervention Management Plan. An Information System based on GIS techniques
will be foreseen;
* A specific training course, with the participation of technical staff of the MoE and
of the local authorities of Durres, Lezhe and Saranda, where wetland construction is
envisaged, will be carried out, with the scope of strengthening the management,
monitoring and assessment capacity.
Environmental Assessment                                                                 2
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
3.0        Project methodology and contents
The proposed methodology implies the development of a Detailed Monitoring Program
shared in three stages, focused preliminarily on:
a) Provide water quality standards and law enforcement for water protection
At present, no detailed legislation on specific standards for domestic sewage discharges into
surface waters has been enacted yet in Albania, but a "Wastewater Quality Law" is under
discussion on Parliament. Therefore at the moment only intemational regulations and limits
for the typical waste water concentrations to be attained, can be taken into account for
comparisons.
Being water the basic element for the development of biological resources and biodiversity
conservation of the Protected Area and wetlands, acceptable water quality condition and
dynamical regimes have to be guaranteed
Availability and application of Water Quality Standards and limits at the waste waters
discharge points, referred to water matrix, biota and sediments, will be specified for all water
systems, by issuing an up-dated technical water standard reference scheme.
Criteria for monitoring program will be the following:
*         water bodies will be divided in nvers, lakes, transitional water and wetlands,
marine coastal zone, sensible area for cyprinids and salmonids life, dnnkable
waters natural resources;
*         parameters to be measured will be those controlling the eutrophication process in
the river, in the lagoon and in the coastal zone, so covering biochemical
measures as well as biological parameters;
*         procedures for the classification of water bodies and biota will be identified;
*        criteria to identify water quality objectives will be proposed;
*         parameters as indicators of some specific pollution of anthropogenic origin will
be taken into account;
*         matrices to be investigated will be water, sediment and biota, for the computation
of EBI;
*         locations for sampling will be representative of boundary conditions (river flow,
lagoon entrance, loads discharge points, off-shore), of sensible areas in the lagoon
and of the spreading phenomena from pollution sources;
*         frequency of sampling will be carried out monthly for eutrophication parameters,
four times a year for biological factors, twice a year for sediments.
Rules and procedures will be drown in cooperation between consultant and local experts.
b) identifv a Monitoring program during the construction of the CTW
The EA carried-out identified potential negative impacts of the project during construction:
e.g. inappropriate disposal of excavated materials, construction debris and small quantities of
hazardous wastes; environmental damage caused by contractors during the construction
activities.
During project implementation, procedures will be introduced to ensure that potential
negative impacts as a result of the project are mitigated. Environmental indicators will be
monitored and obligations, for implementation in accordance with the new Law on
Environmental Protection under GoA approval and OP 4.01, will be detailed and included in
the contracts with operators.
Environmental Assessment                                                                  3
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
c) CTW Monitoring during Operational Phases
The monitoring of effluent quality and compliance with Albanian Standards are the responsibility
of MoE.
To ensure the satisfactory functioning and the sustainability of the wetland system the following
monitoring operation are suggested to MoE:
*    CTW water compliance Monitoring. Compliance monitoring is largely determined by
the relevant environmental legislation and conditions imposed by the approval authorities.
Compliance monitoring should characterize the quality of the effluent well enough to
evaluate its likely impact on the receiving water. Situations will vary but compliance
monitoring should at least determine seasonal variations in the concentration of: BOD,
suspended solids, dissolved oxygen, temperature, electrical conductivity, pH, total
nitrogen, total phosphorus, and same indicator measure of pathogens(Ecoli), Flow,
ammonium, filterable reactive phosphorus and nitrate monitoring may also be required.
*    CTW   Performance Monitoring. Performance monitoring is essentially a two-stage
process. The first stage is to monitor all the necessary quantity vanables to be able to
construct a water balance model for the system. Preferably this requires a simultaneous
continuous record of: inflow, outflow, water level, rainfall and evaporation. The second
stage is to sample the range of flow conditions for water quality. The combination of these
datasets allows the estimation of loads in and out of the wetland and an accurate
determination of the mass of pollutants removed by the wetland.
*    Protection of receiving waters and surrounding environment. Variables to monitor in
addition to the compliance list include: total oxidised nitrogen, ammonium, andfilterable
reactive phosphorus. In addiction monitoring of wetland fauna can be useful in assessing
the overall health of the wetland community. Typically, aquatic macro invertebrates can be
used for this purpose. Pest species (eg. mosquitoes) in particular need to be regularly
monitored. Other species, like birds, need to be regularly monitored also. Birds that either
eat aquatic vegetation or use it for habitat and nesting can cause major damage to wetland
vegetation.
d) Strengthening of the enforcement capacity.
At the end of the project development, a short training course will be organized and carried
out with the cooperation of the MoE personnel and its participation. Representatives of local
Authorities from Durres, Lezhe and Saranda will also be involved in the training, in order to
enforce the local monitoring and management capacity and to increase awareness of the
environmental problems.
The training course will last for a two-weeks period, involving at least 20 technicians with
biological, hydrological, geological, environmental engineering background and competences.
In agreement with MoE, the following environmental aspects will be analyzed:
Water quality standards and EIA procedures;
*        Monitoring criteria and techniques in coastal zones and transitional waters
systems;
Artificial wetlands construction and maintenance procedures;
*        Efficiency control techniques and EIA application methods;
*        Coastal dynamics, sediment balance and water circulation in lagoons and internal
systems;
*         GIS application to water systems.
The Training course will have a practical character, by identifying, with the participation of
local representatives of Durres, Lezhe and Saranda, the monitoring program (parameters,
Environmental Assessment                                                                 4
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
sampling frequency and location, analytical methods, data processing, IT resources, etc),
according to the rules and procedures previously established and agreed by MoE.
Organization, time schedule and resources will be identified even in agreement with case
histories which will be analyzed during the training.
4.0        Timing and Organization
The overall timing for the accomplishment of the Strengthening monitoring and
enforcement capacity Project will be of 6 months.
Team work organization will foreseen n°l abroad expert with specific competences in water
quality planning and natural resources management, with a participation of albanian
scientists and experts.
5.0       Costs estimate
Total costs is 101.500 US $, shared in
Tab.5.1-Strengthenig component-Cost evaluation
Description            Unit price    Q.ty        Total
($)                   Amount
Equipments
CPU and accessories                  3.500        3         10.500
Consultants Remuneration
Intemational Expert incl. allowance  18,000   2 ni/month    36,000
Local Experts                       4,000     6 mi/month    24,000
Rembursables
Intemational fly                     800          3         2,400
Local transportation                 1,800     2 months     3,600
Training
Organization and direction                                  3.000
Direct costs (renting, transports)                          2.000
Intemational Teachers ( 5 experts)  1 00/hour    80         8.000
Local allowances for teachers       120/day      20         2.400
Documentation preparation                                   5.600
International fly                    800          5         4,000
Total cost                                          101,500
Environmental Assessment                                                                5
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Annex 6
CTW'S OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE PLAN AND MONITORING OUTLINE
Environmental Assessment                                                                               6
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
1.0          Operation and Maintenance Plan
The operation & maintenance (O&M) plan describes the procedures for operation and ongoing
maintenance to ensure the wetland and the associated facilities perform to an acceptable standard,
the design objectives are met and O&M costs are saved by early detection of problems.
To ensure the satisfactory functioning and the sustainability of the wetland system the following
maintenance activities are suggested:
* Aquatic plants should be periodically monitored to ensure weed or nuisance species have not
established and, if so, the physical removal of these species should be promptly carried out;
* Careful water level control should be maintained at all times;
. Some harvesting of wetland plants may be beneficial to maintain access for predators, to
invigorate plant growth, remove excess biomass and remove some nutrients;
* Management or control of mosquitoes can include plant density control, fluctuating water
levels, introducing native mosquito eating fish and maintaining a balanced eco-system;
* Clearance of any blockages of weirs, inlets and outlets.
Problems with operation and maintenance can occur when:
* natural disasters take place;
* wetland is plagued with weed problems;
* wetland is poorly designed and constructed;
* wetland is overloaded, hydraulically and organically;
* operator is not familiar with the system;
* build-up of solids and debris is not periodically removed;
* wetland plants are disturbed by birds.
The CTW's Operation and Maintenance activities and duty are shown in Tab 1.1
An operation and maintenance plan provides the framework for system management whereby the
operator can make informed decision and take actions. To be effective the operator should have a
knowledge of plant and weed species identification and basic wetland ecology. Should a problem
be more complex then relevant expertise and advice should be sought.
Normally the CwT will not require the employment of additional specialist personnel but be
managed and monitored by existing environmental, engineering and operations staff (i.e. Albanian
Ministry of Environment or Ministry Public works) . Periodically, a review of the wetland
performance and condition by a specialist in this field is recommended.
An example of a wetland O&M schedule is provided in Tab. 1.2, including the expected frequency
of O&M activities.
Environmental Assessment                                                                 7
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Table 1.1 -Operation &        Management Activities and Duties
Activity                                             Duty/Responsibility
Solids accumulation         Solids removed over 75 mm depth. Determined by regular inspections & depth measurement
Do not damage margin vegetation during removal. Dispose solids in approved location.
Debris removal               Remove from inlet zone, macrophyte zone and ensure outlet weirs are clear. Dispose debris in
approved location
Open water zones             Remove any emergent or floating vegetation within open water zones. Check and remove any
sediment accumulation over 75 mm in depth Dispose sediment in approved location Do not
damage margin vegetation
Identify invasive and noxious weeds and remove by physical
Weed Control                 means preferably  Apply chemical eradication method using
approved methods end chemicals Wetland level may be temporaly
lowered to help identify nuisance weeds. Dispose weeds in an
approved location.
Cheek thet species are not tending to dominate. Remove plants indicating domination or
Assess plant diversity       developing as a monoculture. Dispose surplus plants in an approved location.
Harvesting needs             Floating plants should be drawn off if very dense Emergent plants can be cut or Control
bumed after lowering the water level. Buming should be restncted to early spring and be of
low intensity Dispose of surplus plants in an approved location
Regular inspections identify problems. Report complaints
Mosquito control             Regular changes in water level, native fish stocking, check on vegetation densities, avoid
stagnant zones, and/or seek specialist
Replace dead wetland plants with approved species
Replanting needs             Control water depth during replanting establishment period
Check areas tending to channelise and short-circuit and replant accordingly. Ensure minimal
disturbance to existing plants during replanting.
Take particular care during plant establishment phase
Water level control          Make adjustments at the outlet weir structure. Assess wetland ability to cope with variations
of inflow. Lower water levels pnor to a forecasted wet event.
Erosion       &     scour    Undertake inspections following events, report and undertake remedial work to structures,
damage                       earthfonms and vegetated areas. Repair any bank erosion Minimise disturbance to vegetation
Environmental Assessment                                                                                                        8
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Table 1.2-Example Wetland Operation & Maintenance Schedule
OPERATIONS
w =weekly                      Operation and Maintenance
m =monthly                                Activity
e =after peakflow                         Activity                              =           0
b =bi- annually
Solids accumulation       Remove & dispose accumulations over                  e,m
75 mm in depth
Debris                    Remove & dispose                                      e,m        e,m         e,m          e
Scour damage              Inspect, report & make repairs           e,m         e,m         e,b                     e,m         e,m
Noxious plants            Remove & dispose                                      m                       m
Harvesting need           When densities indicate overgrowth                                            m
Conditions, harvest & dispose
Structure check           Undertake necessary repairs              e,m                     e,mn                    e,m         e,m
Mosquito checks           Inspect and report if a problem                      m                       w
Replanting need           As plant die, replace with selected species                                  m
Water level adjustment    Undertake during plant establishment phase                                   IV          e,w
Environmental Assessment                                                                            9
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
2.0     Monitoring
Environmental monitoring can be undertaken at various levels of detail to satisfy a number of
purposes. Wetlands can be monitored for:
* compliance to licence conditions;
* performance assessment;
* operational control and maintenance.
The objectives for any monitoring program need to be clearly outlined. Purpose and objectives of
the monitoring will tend to determine what variables are assessed and in what detail. Most
monitoring programs need to be individually designed to focus on the specific requirements of the
system, the level of detail required and how the results will be used. For example:
* monitoring for compliance may only characterise the quality of the effluent;
* monitoring for performance will require the determination of the quantity and quality of both
the influent and effluent;
* monitoring for operational control and maintenance may focus on how treatment performance
and wetland structure varies spatially within the system and over time.
Compliance Monitoring
Compliance monitoring is largely determined by the relevant environmental legislation and
conditions imposed by the approval authorities. Compliance monitoring should characterise the
quality of the effluent well enough to evaluate its likely impact on the receiving water. Situations
will vary but compliance monitoring should at least determine seasonal variations in the
concentration of: BOD, suspended solids, dissolved oxygen, temperature, electrical conductivity,
pH, total nitrogen, total phosphorus, and same indicator measure of pathogens(Ecoli), Flow,
ammonium, filterable reactive phosphorus and nitrate monitoring may also be required.
Performance Monitoring
Performance monitoring is essentially a two-stage process. The first stage is to monitor all the
necessary quantity variables to be able to construct a water balance model for the system.
Preferably this requires a simultaneous continuous record of: inflow, outflow, water level, rainfall
and evaporation. The second stage is to sample the range of flow conditions for water quality. The
combination of these datasets allows the estimation of loads in and out of the wetland and an
accurate determination of the mass of pollutants removed by the wetland.
In terms of protection of receiving waters, it is usually the mass of pollutant input that is critical
rather than the simple concentration. Variables to monitor in addition to the compliance list
include: total oxidised nitrogen, ammonium, and filterable reactive phosphorus.
Operational Control and Maintenance
Operational control and maintenance monitoring is designed to provide information to help manage
the performance of the system. To adequately manage a wetland treatment system requires some
information on all wetland components: inflow, through flow, outflow, substrate and detritus,
micro biota, flora, and fauna.
Tab.2.1-Operational Control and Maintenance Monitoring Components summarises the typical
component of operational monitoring.
An important element of operational and maintenance monitoring is that it must be linked lo
appropriate management responses so that remedial action is timely. Appropriate response times
can vary considerably. For example microbial communities may start to respond to a change in
organic loading within hours. Depending on conditions, mosquitoes can complete their entire life
cycle in as little as 7 to 10 days. Consequently mosquito control procedures have to be initiated
immediately after a risk is detected. Many aquatic plant species form large vegetative stands that
may survive for many years. Consequently actions undertaken to manage aquatic plants (drying
cycles or water level changes) may take an entire growing season to become evident. Operational
Environmental Assessment                                                                1l
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
and maintenance monitoring forms an important link in the adaptive management feedback system
for successful wetland operation.
Environmental Assessment                                                                   12
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



Albania-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project
Table 2.1-Operational Control and Maintenance Monitoring Components
Component                               Monitoring Focus                              Suggested Frequency      Typical/possible management response
Inflow,          Monitoring these components can be based on performance monitoring. The  Quantity=continuous/daily  Vary influent load, change operational
throughflow      main difference is the additional monitoring of throughflow within the wetland. Quality = can be highly  water depth, instigate a drying cycie.
outflow          These additional sites allow the spatial vadation and rate of treatment processes variable depending on the
to be described.                                                   system (daily to weekly).
Substrate and    Monitoring the composition of these components allows the build up of litter to Quarterly to annually.  Vary organic load, change operational
Detritus         be tracked? the effectiveness of drying cycles to be assessed and the                          water depth, instigate a drying cycle,
accumulation of phosphorus and toxicants to be evaluated.                                      change toxicant pre-treatment.
Microbiota       Monitoring of wetland microbiota can be either direct or indirect. Direct  Indirect measures can be
methos include determining organic matter degradation rates by placing  incorporateci into performance  Vary organic load, change operational
artificial substrates into the wetland or incubation of sediment cores to  monitoring Direct measures  water depth, instigate a drying cycle.
determine denitrification potential. Indirect methods include tracking changes  quarterly to annually.
in BOD as a measure of organic carbon degradation or tracking the conversion
of organic nitrogen to ammonium and to nitrate.
Flora            Monitoring of wetland vegetation allows the composition, evenness and  Roudne-quartely to annually.  Change operational water depth, instigate a
density of plant cover to be recorded. Variations in these parameters can  Inspections should also occur  drying cycle, harvest standing litter,
influence performance. Standing litter load can also be assessed.  after major environmental  instigate weed control, initiate spot
events, eg. flood, strong winds, replanting, modify edge zone management.
frosts.
Fauna            Monitoring of wetland fauna can be useful in assessing the overall health of the Health assessment=annually.  Vary organic load, change operational
wetland community. Typically, aquatic macroinvertebrates can be used for this Pest monitoring=weekly.  water depth, instigate a drying cycle,
purpose. Pest species (eg. mosquitoes) in particular need to be regulary                       procedures, modify edge zone
monitored. Other species, like birds, need to be regulary monitored also. Birds                management, review terrestrial vegetation
that either eat aquatic vegetation or use it for habitat and nesting can cause                 layout-re-plant to interrupt water bird
major damage to wetland vegetation.                                                            approach paths to the wetland.
Environmnental Assessment
Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project



W.UZUS OFAUJA77C AND wqJEarmSIAL ECOPYSyTM
F,72 ;am aro mant&zaJ,z.-
a               Agetts'mI nan
'.SWacot rut ws n
** Ucwnzard oefSr.
.,  NM;Fiwhw P napAc ru Ike p-r
Si  50   X tz       ^ =~~~OtCiCP b'ts:
C'f of Lezhe                           £   t- ba:-
City of Durres -'
AK~~~~~~~~~~         A
-a'
City of Sarandaaa
Fig. i PROJECT AREAS



GEOLOGICAL NIAP OF LEZIlA AREA
Scalc 1: 100 000
Adopted iromtshe Oeoloacat V.ap of.UAbam. 9 Swait l O00m
nkU 4Nt-     s MLEGEND
5 ~~~~~\ t~~~O 5w Ql,l Fd7ut1ad;elm
%?i;  M~~~~Q MO dMOMM bb*zCftidta M*
v,   :*           Q    q xm dqo So, a1 to  d
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s          UpX,-&  l duecia iF  -  L nwtu
E~~~~E
I'~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
_ _ _._  :  . '                 I
/   -  -  .~t.F
FIG. 2



6  S6   Zi     oE    621~~~~~  So  qBt,  1   9 'J1.   t gu        tub  
m WiA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M
W"w ml imma saw Assader
tomekp lmm *qj stim RXw' "I 9He 
4M"|SOM. Of"t _g Ri t I ).
mas u" m to Kem ManZ
-ftes"Apo"W 15, P sa
|l ~~~~~~asS4W4sDi _f
isBuii DM
saAmiw aprssa nxoo pa           o10020{



HYDROOEOLOCICALCROSS-SEtION 1-I IN LEZIIA PLAIN
is~:                     " Is  a  .*      :                I*
EE 4S~i a3.3 E 'E 1-.- a [19 , 0 -go^ N.t 
I.51 Lai2 a.ny  1d 3.9hiyd.ay 4. Cba 5. (jinal6.Cu kegAiu,rl, 7 l%-oaaric I,4:d
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
M    3m~~ 3 - iaC7 Am ilma                       * la       1,0 UII '0
JI.a z Sao)d 2W. C.hty dni .&Lycay 4. CyItGrvli S. Cogilrawl, 7 Nuaqjormer 7. IZMm:cIal
L tWell acaA neildepab 9. Qmatniry deposti 10. UppLr eMosceavadbe  I . Lowefte deposes
HlY.RbGEOLoGICAL CROSSC-aSEMON 2-2 INd Le                 RoPmEUN
G 4
.30
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                        la    13
1. Sand 2 Clay to and 1.Sg clayey 4. Clay S.CGravel 6 Coelasmcr 1e 7. llSzcmlfelevel
E. WCO an 4 cres-^ cclwic lmc 9..Well prajecced an t6 eres - sclf Jimc 10 Wcil scee
int1welldcpal. m. 111 Qluala.rydq*iisl2. L UpprPlmdcposu 31L >el ivo=cdcposrs
Conpi d by Ro nao Eflw
FIG. 4



Cu    

0



GEOLOGICAL MAP OF DURRE AREA
Elaborated from the Geological Map of Albania Scale 1:200 000                FIG. 6
H  ==E                        i~~~~~~~2-   r  1         17 =3 -P7 
_ q-{n                                                                    LEGIZND
.  ./             tifs   #        m     c~~~~~~~~~0,ia Qudatcary morsb eoidts
Cr Ss w ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q4df Qualenary marine dwpo*sks Mainly sand.
t . ^.:;. z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q. Qulitemiryundiffcrentialeddeposits.
si 5           I      ; @ z 2 : 25t                Crascl~~~~~~~mve and clay.
mi u                   0 g   t_Q9~~~~~~~~~~ |    l ~~N r Pliocene deposit (Rrogozhine Formation).
ifl5 t' _ _ _ ;> . I I ~~~~~~~~~Conglomcmte, sandstone andeclay
1 1 E &mF < :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 N Pliocenc dspostis (Hclmesi Fornvation).
;!\  M t  < >bt\'\L  1v  >    \|t\           3    ~~~~~~~~N.' Mesinian deposits. Sandslone and clay
tv < 3 < o \\ ~~~~~~~~~~~rME2x&\9 Nlst Toromanindeposits.C2y and samWndoiL
fF itS:0bt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



HYDROGEOLOGICAL MAP OF DURRES AREA
Elaborated from the Hydrogeological Map of Albania Scale 1:200 000                 FIG. 7
r   pdB          D       -- -s Z I r         Ii           F2 
>   --Jl                /y      S     g      M    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gmayclly equirers. superficiall
1__  t  A   i)}  f  LL   covcred by cIly-y Ioyas
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~,j                  p Sosor,qulity itrer
.r          !                   g        i    z      >vz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lo producLive sandly quiferL
i;          |          i       t        i.           Mb;~~~~~~~~~~~%*poor quality *rater
R i: _ i Z | z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Conglomerate and sandstone aquifer.
_____mPoRXclly non .qu_f.mpl ckLuy
< - DLcoan arypo~ uewil a flowf
5      w             X    ~~~~~~~~~ ii ~~~~I         1 Line of hydrogeol gtcal cross-sxeton
16i



HYDROGEOLOGICAL CRASS-SECTION -1
PortoRomano *@Birrao Plaln
Sauub.W.si         ft       *0Do
.10
. :7
*.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o a"wse                          So 11 _0006 ^.wt^-
,n~~ Copied by Re EMM
103o
-~~~~~~-



ALTERNATIVE N 1            ALTERNATIVE N 2               A          N 2
ACW S LOCAION   |        NEW MAIN COLLECTOR|           NEW PUMPING STATION
PORTA ROMANA
|   ALTERNATIVEN 1 1                                                       HYDROVORE             - - - - -m - -iPa - -. -                                .
NEW PUMPING STATION I
DURRES NEW OIL       /
ALTERNATIVE N 1                                                                             STORAGE AREA
NEW MAIN COLLECTOR                -- -=  =                             -                                                           -- =-  - 
OR]  -'K ---       .--- --- 
== ~~~_==     -   == -   -   -  - = - -   =-  -   -   -   -  -   - -   -   =- -= -   - - -   -   =---- - - - -- l - = -   -   =- -K
__________           _--  -                   =- - -= - - -  1- - -= - -  == -= - -= -= -= =- -. - - - -= =- - -= -  - - - - - -.
D G  E    RNME          AT     IDOF                 Integrated Water and Ecosystem         Tehnicl A             t  f    |      D             A  E           ID   N 0
|  | (GEF Component P075156)  [ Constructed Treatment Wetlands | WETLAND  ALTERNATIVE LOCATIONS  |  A3



ALTERNATIVE N- 1, 1   |ALTERNATIVE N 2                ALTERNATIVE N- 2
CTW 's LOCATION        NEW MAIN COLLECTOR |                                          - - PUMPING STATION  - 
PORTA ROMANA
ALTERNATIVE N- 1                                                   HYDROVORE       =  - _ __          __,      IPsh
NEW PUMPING STATION-7
DURRES NEW OIL
ALTERNATIVE N- 1                                                                       STORAGE AREA
NEW MAIN COLLECTOR - - - - - - - - - - - - -                                             STORAGE
D _ T     A D   I A   I K-- - - - - -  -=- - =--------------------- -  - - - -                  g - - - -  - - - - -
-.- - ==== - =-_ -= - - - - - -= - - ---- - - - - -= - - - - -(  -:- --- --:-=I A
.i                                 -. -                                                      -
GO     E    NM      N       OF TL        AN    A        Maaemn PrjetRI|                TehncIssssen          o      |     D   RRS-RE`LWGN 
I                        | (GEF Component P07516)        I Constructed Treatmnt Wetlands |WETLAND ALTRNATIVEDLOCATIONSR|A      A3K
-   -   - -   -   -   - - -6 - --
Inerted Water and Ecosystem      Technical Assessment of            DURRES       AREAOW.N0
GOVERNMENT                  OF     ALBANIAI             Management Project
(GEF Component P075156)       Constructed Treatment Wetlands WETLAND ALTERNATIVE LOCATIONS          A3



