                                              Document of
                                          The World Bank


                                                                                ReportNo: 27957-ALB




                                          FOR OFFICIAL USE




                                 PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                 ON A

             PROPOSED GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$4.87 MILLION

                                                TO THE

                                     GOVERNMENTOF ALBANIA

                                                FOR AN

              INTEGRATEDWATER AND ECOSYSTEMS MANAGEMENT PROJECT

                                          FEBRUARY 24,2004




Infrastructure and Energy Services Department
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



This document has a restricted distribution and maybe used by recipients onlyin the performanceof their
official duties. Its contentsmay not be otherwisebe disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective February 2004)

                            Currency Unit = Albanian Lek
                                     1 Lek = US$0.00882379
                                     US$1 = 113.33 Lek


                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1 -- December 3 1

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BOD     Biochemical Oxygen Demand
BSAP    Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CBD     Convention on Biological Diversity
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability Assessment
C M     Council o f Ministers
CMU     Contract Monitoring Unit
CP      Consumer Panel
CQ      Consultant Qualification
CTW     Constructed Treatment Wetland
CZIM    Coastal Zone Integrated Management
DWSC    Durres Water and SewerageCompany
ECA     Europe and Central Asia
EIB     European Investment Bank
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP     Environmental Management Plan
ESW     Economic and Sector Work
EU      European Union
EUPHARE European Union "Pologne, Hongrie Assistance Li la Reconstruction Economique"
FMR     Financial Monitoring Report
FRR     Financial Rate o f Return
GDF     General Directorate of Fisheries
GDFP    General Directorate o f Forests and Pasture
GEF     Global Environment Facility
GOA     Government of Albania
IAS     International Accounting Standards
IBA     Important BirdArea
IBRD    InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
IC      Individual Consultant
ICB     InternationalCompetitive Bidding
IDA     InternationalDevelopment Association
IMF     International Monetary Fund
IS      International Shopping
IUCN    International Union for Conservation o f Nature and Natural Resources - The World
          Conservation Union
KESH    Albanian National Electricity Company

                                                              FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


    KVMA      Kune Vain ManagedArea
    LCS       Least Cost Selection
    MAP       Mediterranean Action Plan
    MED POL   Program for the Assessment and Control o f Pollution inthe Mediterranean Region
    MOE       Ministry of Environment
    MOF       MinistryofFinance
    MOTAT     Ministry o f Territorial Adjustment and Tourism
    M W       Minor Works
    MWWP      Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
    NCB       National Competitive Bidding
    NEAP      National Environmental Action Plan
    NGO       Nongovernmental Organization
    NPV       Net Present Value
    NS        National Shopping
    NSSED     National Strategy for Social and Economic Development
    NWRC      National Water Regulatory Commission
    O&M       Operation and Maintenance
    OP        Operational Program
    PAS       Procurement Accredited Staff
    PIP       Project ImplementationPlan
    PIU       Project ImplementationUnit
    PMR       Project Management Report
    QBS       Quality Based Selection
    QCBS      Quality and Cost Based Selection
    RE        Removal Efficiency
    SA        Special Account
    SOE       Statement o f Expenditures
    SFB       Selection under FixedBudget
    SPN       Specific Procurement Notice
    STAP      Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel
    T A       Technical Assistance
    UNDP      UnitedNations Development Program
    UNEP      UnitedNations Environmental Program
    VAT       Value AddedTax
    WSSS      Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy




                                   Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                     Country ManageriDirector:        Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                        Sector ManagedDirector:       Sumter Lee TraverdHossein Razavi
                                    Team Leader:      Andreas Rohde




This documenthas a restricteddistributionandmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                               ALBANIA
            INTEGRATED WATER AND ECOSYSTEMS MANAGEMENT PROJECT


                                               CONTENTS




A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page

   1. Project development objective                                                       2
   2. Key performance indicators                                                          2

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
   2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
   3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  6

C. Project Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                  6
   2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        8
   3. Benefits and target population                                                       9
   4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       10

D.Project Rationale

   1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           12
   2. Major related projects financed by the Bank andlor other development agencies       13
   3. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design                                  14
   4. Indications o f borrower and recipient commitment and ownership                     15
   5. Value added o f Bank and Global support in this project                             16

E. Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                            16
   2. Financial                                                                           17
   3. Technical                                                                           18
   4. Institutional                                                                       19
   5. Environmental                                                                       19
   6. Social                                                                              21
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  23

F. Sustainability and Risks

   1. Sustainability                                                                          24
   2. Critical risks                                                                          25
   3. Possible controversial aspects                                                          26


G. Main Conditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                                                                 26
   2. Other                                                                                   27

H. Readiness for Implementation                                                               25

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                                  28



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                               29
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                         34
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                              40
Annex 4: STAP Roster Technical Review                                                         41
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary         47
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                         54
           (B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                             59
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                          64
Annex 8:   Documents inthe Project File                                                       65
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                      66
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                                 68
Annex 11: Incremental Cost Analysis                                                           70
Annex 12: Project Area Ecosystems                                                             76
Annex 13: Extract from the Project Appraisal Document (Report No. 24826) for the M W W P --   85
            Financial Assessment o f the Three ParticipatingCompanies




MAP(S)

Map No. IBRD-33009

                                                  ALBANIA
                              IntegratedWater andEcosystemsManagementProject

                                      Project Appraisal Document
                                        Europe and Central Asia Region
                                                   ECSIE

Date: February 24,2004                                 Team Leader: Andreas Rohde
Sector Manager: Sumter Lee Travers                     Sector(s): General water, sanitation and flood protection
Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos               sector (100%)
Project ID: PO75156                                    Theme(s): Biodiversity (P), Pollutionmanagement and
Focal Area: M Multi-focal area
              -                                        environmental health (P), Other environment andnatural
                                                      resources management(S)


[ ]Loan        [ ]Credit      [XI Grant     [ ]Guarantee         [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:




EC: EUROPEANINVESTM



BorrowerlRecipient: ALBANIA
Responsibleagency: PIU
World BankWater PIU
Address: Rr. "Bajram Tusha", LagjaNr 14, Dunes, Albania
Contact Person: Mr.Genci Gjeci, Director
Tel: 355 52 64184               Fax: 355 52 64184               Email: gjecigenc(@albmail.com

Estimated Disbursements( Bank FY/US$m):




Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectivenessdate: 06/18/2004    Expectedclosing date: 12131/2009

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)

The proposed GEFEIB project was part o f the IDA-financed Municipal Water and Wastewater Project,
but due to an extensive consultation process camed out for the GEFEIB project, the World Bank
proceeded with the approval o f the IDA credit in advance o f the GEF approval. The IDA-supported
project and the GEFEIB-supported project, although technically separated into two projects, are still
together working to achieve an overarching development objective. This overarching development objective
o f the two projects i s to improve the provision o f water supply and sanitation services in selected Albanian
cities by introducing a new approach to utility management that buildsupon private sector participation in
the form of a performance and incentive based management contract.

The development objective o f the GEFEIBproject i s to improve the municipal wastewater services in the
coastal cities o f Dunes, Lezha and Saranda. By achieving this objective the project will also contribute to
economic growth, because all three project cities are tourist areas whose continued prosperity depends
heavily on a healthy coastal environment.

The global environmental objective is to improve the health and habitat conditions o f globally significant
marine and coastal ecosystems along the coastline o f Albania in an integrated manner. The objectives will
be achieved through: (i)    reduction o f sewage pollution loads through the development and establishment o f
low cost water treatment technologies Constructed Treatment Wetlands (CTWs) producing environmental
incremental benefits; (ii)   promoting the establishment and improve the management o f the Kune Vain
protectedmarshland; and (iii)   improvement o f the dialogue between public institutions and citizens through
a public communication program as well as a program o f dissemination and replication o f project
achievements.

The Integrated Water and Ecosystems Management project (IWEMP) leveraged financing from the
European Investment Bank (EIB). This i s the first time the EIB is supporting Albania's water sector which
i s in dire need o f foreign investment, especially after the EU, one o f the largest donors in the sector,
withdrew its support.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)

Progress towards the project objective will be measured by the following key performance indicators:

Stress Reduction Indicators:

0        Nutrient (Nitrogeflhosphorus) removal in the wastewater discharge: 50 percent for nitrogen and
         25 percent for phosphorus.

0        Removal o f organic impurities: 70 percent o funfilteredBOD5.

EnvironmentalStatus Indicators:

0        Improved health o f the Posidonia Oceanica (seagrass) meadows, which are pollution sensitive and
         instrumental in creating a habitat that fosters biodiversity: biomass per surface unit; shoot density;
         epiphyte growth and area covered.




                                                       - 2 -

0       Biodiversity in the Kune Vain Managed Area (KVMA) regarding the following flagship classes:
        Malachofauna, Herpetofauna, Avifauna, and Mammalia.

ProcessIndicators:

0       Social acceptance o f CTWs:       Number o f complaints received by the utilities regarding the
        operation o fthe CTWs (odor, noise, mosquitos, etc.)


0       Adoption o f the Kune Vain Management Plan (KVMP) that includes process indicators, stress
        reduction indicators, and environmental status indicators.


0       Implementation o f a basic monitoring system o fthe coastal areas.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported bythe project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 24189-ALB Date of latest CAS discussion: June 20, 2002

The project i s includedinthe CAS o f 2002 which emphasized poverty alleviation and social cohesion as the
underlying conditions to assure sustainable development in Albania within a stable Southeast European
Region. Ensuring environmental sustainability and sustainable management o f natural resources are one o f
the main objectives o f Albania's National Strategy for Social and Economic Development (NSSED) that i s
the foundation for the CAS.

The main emphasis o f the CAS is on accelerating poverty alleviation in connection with economic growth,
improving govemance, building capacity in the institutions, and improving natural resource management.
In promoting effective natural resource management, the project supports the NSSED and CAS goals.
Also, in line with the decentralization strategy in the NSSED and CAS, this project will promote
environmental management at the local level by setting up transparent and inclusive mechanisms at the
municipality and community level for decision-malung, implementation, and management o f natural
resources.

Also, the Government is makingan effort to highlightenvironmental-poverty linkages inthe NSSED, which
emphasizes the need to reverse environmental degradation, rehabilitate heavily polluted areas that
jeopardize health, and ensure the sustainable use o f natural resources. The National EnvironmentalAgency
was upgraded inAugust 2002 to Ministryo f Environment, and an updatedNational EnvironmentalAction
Plan (NEAP) was approved by the Govemment in January 2002.                 Within this context, there is an
opportunity to strengthen the Government's regulatory capacity, help the Government demonstrate its
commitment to the environment through visible actions, and further increase public environmental
awareness.

la. Global Operational strategyprogram objective addressed by the project:

The project is fully consistent with OP 12 Integrated EcosystemManagement, with linkages to OP2, OP9
                                           -
and OP10. The project will (i)    create an enabling environment for integrated ecosystem management by
supporting the implementation o f the recently approved Law on Protected Areas in the Kune Vain
marshlands; (ii)  strengthen the local capacity to manage the constructed wetlands and the coastal lagoon
system inan integratedmanner; and (iii)   support investments that address both local and global issues.




                                                     - 3 -

The four components that have incremental activities proposed for financing by GEF are: (i)          sewage
pollution reduction; (ii)environmental management and monitoring; (iii)public communication and
replication; and (iv) project management, monitoring and evaluation.

2. M a i n sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1 Background

The Albanian Government is very aware o fthe poor conditions inwhich the water sector operates, with its
infrastructure in urgent need o f improvement both in terms o f physical rehabilitation and management
capability. Albania has no wastewater treatment facilities and raw sewage is dischargeduntreated into seas
and rivers. Degradation o f the quality o f transboundary water resources caused by land-based activities is
therefore a very serious problem.

The Adriatic coastal area (the northern part o f the Albanian coast) is generally characterized by coastal
lowlands (alluvial plains) intersectedby rivers, and flanked by hillsalong its uplandboundary. The coast i s
made o f long sandy beaches, deltaic river mouths and lagoons. The coastal waters are shallow, receiving
water from the rivers and several drainage canals. At sea the water depth increases slowly due to the sandy
bottom associatedwith biocenosis, then it becomes muddywith increasing depth.

On the sandy or muddy bottoms, the marine flora is scarce or occupies specific areas where `currents or
waves appear less often. The extensive seagrass beds o f Posidonia oceanica are an important part o f the
Albanian marine ecosystem, often occupying a considerable part o f the littoral zone. Posidonia oceanica
and very well developed marine communities are found along Port0 Romano bay (where Durres discharges
its wastewater) and Shengjini bay (adjacent to the Kune Vain marshland). The underwater rocky bottoms
at Rodoni and Lagji Capes (Durres) and the eastern side o f Vlora bay host patches o fPosidonia oceanica.

2.2 Main Sector Issues

As identified in the Strategic Action Plan for the Mediterranean Sea, several hot spots along the Adriatic
coast are the main cause o f pollution in the marine and coastal ecosystems. InAlbania, water pollution,
mainly generated by an increasing population concentrated along the Adriatic coastline, has caused
considerable deterioration o f the natural inland ecosystems and the biological productivity o f the coastal
areas. Indeed, in all towns wastewater is discharged without any treatment directly into rivers or drainage
canals, which carry the untreated sewage directly into globally significant tidal marshlands or to the nearby
marine coastal zone. This has extremely negative effects on the biological balance and also increases the
eutrophicationphenomena o fwetlands.

The coastal lagoon system o f Albania constitutes one o f the most important wetlands o f the region, as
highlighted also by the GEF-supported "Conservation o f Wetland and Coastal Ecosystems in the
Mediterranean Region."      In particular, endangered and endemic species such as the Pygmy cormorant
(Phalacrocorax pygmaeus), the Mouse-ear bat (Myotis miotis), and the Otter (Lutra lutra) live in these
habitats and should be considered as flag species. Coastal water pollution from untreated waste waters
heavily affects Posidoniaoceanica meadows and the related communities, e.g. the endangered species Pinna
nobilis (pen shell).

The tidal marshland o f Kune Vain is one o f the most significant wetlands inthe coastal lagoon system. It
suffers, however, from several problems including:       (i) ofanintegrated sustainable management
                                                            lack
strategy based on multiple uses and conservation on the natural resources; (ii)   progressive spreading and



                                                    - 4 -

enlargement o f buildingconstruction and illegal building;(iii)  presence o f uncontrolledtree cutting and still
illegal fishing; (iv) inappropriate hydraulic management o f the lagoons; (v) lack of appropriate aquaculture
techniques; (vi) deterioration and degradation o f landscape; and (vii) lack o f financial means for effective
management o f the protected area.

Given the limited financial resources available for infrastructure development, the increasing pressure on
the natural resources from higher concentration o f urban settlements along the coastal areas, the limited
environmental awareness among the population, and the weak institutional capacity to manage its natural
resources, the Government o f Albania (GOA) is facing one o f the most challenging tasks in developing a
comprehensive approach to water and ecosystem management. The proposed project would assist Albania
inmeetingthis challenge.

2.3 Government Strategy

GOA is very concerned with the lack of sustainable management o fnatural resources and its negative effect
on the environment. The NEAP, updatedand adopted by the Government inJanuary 2002, emphasizes the
need to reverse environmental degradation and rehabilitate heavily polluted areas, and lists surface water
contamination, due to lack o f proper wastewater treatment, and loss o f biodiversity, due to lack of proper
management o f natural resources, as priority issues. In order to develop an environmental management
policy it was recognizedthat the following areas o f intervention are key for the Government of Albania:

    0     Restructuring economic incentivesto encourage and improve efficient resource utilization;
    0     Preparing environmental legislation, including general and specific laws, and regulations on the
          protection o fthe environment;
    0     Institutional strengthening o f the Albanian environmental authorities and line ministries and
          institutions, both at central and local level;
    0     Developingstrategies to reduce the adverse effects o f soil erosion and deforestation;
    0     Developingstrategies to improve water management and reduce water pollutionproblems;
    0     Developingstrategies to improve coastal zone and natural resource management; and
    0     Developing strategies o f environmental education and communication to increase public
          participation.

Within this overall framework the Ministry o f Environment has identified priority actions that can
significantly and rapidly contribute to the protection o f the environment and control negative environmental
impacts.    Specifically, the measures will be aimed at: (i)developing the institutional and regulatory
framework in line with work already progressing on the institutional and legislative framework; (ii)
strengthening the institutions responsible for the environment; (iii)    evaluating and identifying economic
instruments to be implemented inthe field o f environmental protection and impact mitigation; (iv) assessing
and mitigating pollution at severe environmental hot spots; (v) developing demonstration projects; and (vi)
developing and implementing a public communication program, at both central and local level.

Recognizing the importance of improving the water supply and sanitation sector, GOA has embarked on
preparing a comprehensive Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy focusing on both urgent system repairs
and sector reforms. The Government also adopted a Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan in 2000 that
included the Kune Vain marshland as one o f the priority areas in the network o f protected areas and
identifies the lack o f adequate management capacity as a key issue for sustainability. The Government
recently approved a law on protected areas that supports a more advanced management concept based on
long-term sustainability.       The proposed project supports the Government's strategy on water and
biodiversity by introducing new approaches to integratedwastewater management.



                                                        - 5 -

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:

The Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management project (IWEMP) will extend and deepen the ongoing
Govemment reforms in the environmental sector.             The key strategic choices made during project
preparation were to:


0   Link the project with the currently ongoing Bank financed Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
    (MWWP). The project will provide the water utilities for three o f the cities targeted by the MWWP
    with low cost wastewater treatment facilities. The private operator recruited under the MWWP will be
    instrumental in developing capacity in the water utilities to use this environmentally friendly
    wastewater treatment technology.       It is expected that this will contribute to the introduction o f
    environmentally sustainable wastewater treatment technology in other cities in the region.
    Furthermore, in order to guarantee optimal cooperation between the two projects and optimization of
    resources, a common Project Implementation Unit(PIU) has been established.


0   Address environmental issues in water sector reform by integrating close-to-nature wastewater
    treatment options with management and monitoring o f areas with globally important biodiversity. In
    the present economic situation, with an under developed civil society that i s lacking politically active
    and environmentally conscious elite to actively steer the country toward environmentally conscious
    development, it is unlikely that nature conservation will be sufficiently supported in the near future.
    Therefore, it i s important that present and future coastal zones and wetland conservation programs in
    parallel with sanitation measures lay the ground work for decentralized and financially self sufficient
    management units with strong involvement from civil society. In this context, the project will explore
    the possibility o f introducing an innovative management scheme for Albanian wetlands by building
    upon previous studies such as the EU PHARE financed Karavasta Lagoon Wetland Management
    Project, and cooperate closely with the proposed GEF medium size project for biodiversity
    conservation in the Karavasta Wetlands. If successfully implemented, this should provide a model
    which can be adapted to particular requirements o f other Albanian wetlands and sanitation needs.


0   Address environmental issues in tourist areas.            By selecting tourist areas for environmental
    improvements, the acceptance and support from the local governments and customers o f the water and
    wastewater utilities will be much higher. This is due to the fact that environmental improvements also
    benefit the tourist industry which needs clean beaches to prosper. This also makes it easier for the
    water utilities to introduce wastewater tariffs which cover the operation and maintenance cost for the
    constructed treatment wetlands, because the local governments and customers see the additional
    benefits for the tourist sector which is crucial for the economic prosperity o fthe selected areas.


~r.
n    Project DescriptionSummary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detaileddescription andAnnex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):

The project will assist the Government o f Albania to: (i)    reduce sewage pollution loads generated by the
three coastal areas o f Durres, Lezha and Saranda through the introduction o f low cost wastewater
treatment technologies; (ii)  improve the environmental management and monitoring o f coastal areas; and
(iii)promote nutrient reduction investments in other parts o f Albania and neighboring countries.        The
project components which will help to achieve these goals are presentedinthe table below.

                                                                                                           %of




1.a Wastewater Treatment Facilities                    10.93      54.7     0.00         0.0
1.b Sewerage Network Rehabilitation                    4.86       24.3     0.00         0.0       0.00
2. EnvironmentalManagement and Monitoring              0.70        3.5     0.00         0.0
3. Public Communication and Replication                0.13        0.7     0.00         0.0       0.13       2.7
4. Project Management, Monitoring&Evaluation           0.08        0.4     0.00         0.0       0.08
Taxes and Duties                                       3.30       16.5
                              Total ProjectCosts                                  I
                                                      20.00      100.0
                       Total Financing Required       20.00      100.0      0.00        0.0       4.87  I 100.0




The following breakdown by component does not include taxes and duties.

Component 1: Sewage Pollution Reduction (Total: US$15.79 million; GEF: US$3.96 million, EIB:
US$11.15 million, GOA: US$0.68 million). This component represents an innovative aspect o f the
proposed project and has an high replication value throughout Albania and the region. The component
consists o f three main parts: (i)
                                 the establishment o f Constructed Treatment Wetlands and related facilities
inthe areas o f Durres, Lezha and Saranda, (ii) construction o f the sewage main collectors required to
                                                 the
connect the current sewerage systems to the new treatment facilities, and (iii)sewerage network
rehabilitationand extension.

Component 2: EnvironmentalManagementandMonitoring (Total: US$0.70million; GEF: US$0.70
million). The component will assistthe Ministry o fEnvironment and the Ministryo fAgriculture and Food
(MOM) to carry out the following tasks: (i)     technical assistance for the development o f the Kune Vain
Management Plan including a plan for stakeholder participation in management o f natural resources and
economic incentives for long term sustainability; (ii) training for Kune Vain administration staff, rangers,
staff from the relevant line ministries and members o f NGOs on natural resource management and
integrated ecosystem management; (iii)   implementation o f selected priority measures identifiedinthe Kune
Vain Management Plan and other measures that improve the environmental condtions o f the receiving
waterways; and (iv) design and implement a monitoring program for water quality and biodiversity
indicators in the Kune Vain Managed Area and the coastal areas impacted by the project (including
provisiono ftechnical assistance and equipment as needed).

Component 3: Public Communication and Replication (Total: US$0.13 million; GEF: US$0.13
million).     This component will finance the following activities: (i)organization o f a stakeholder
consultations program for the preparation and implementation o f the management plan for the Kune Vain
Managed Area; (ii)design and implement awareness campaigns on project goals and benefits o f an
integrated ecosystem management, local communities' role and responsibilities in managing natural
resources including payment o f environmental services (partly covered by IDA project); (iii)     organization
o f training and workshops for practitioners and decision-makers on the technical, economic and
environmental benefits o f constructed wetlands and integrated ecosystem management; (iv) design and
implementation of an environmental education and communication program for local communities;               (v)
design and implementation o f a pilot teacher's training program inecology and environmental education in
selected schools; and (vi) technical assistance to develop a replication strategy, including the identification



                                                     - 7 -

o f methods o f information dissemination, and o f repeat projects. These activities are linked to the ongoing
public communication program o f the MOTAT, financed under the IDA credit, as well as the
communication and consumer relation program o f the private operator.

Component 4: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (Total: US$O.O80 million; GEF:
US$O.O80 million). This component will support a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the Ministry
o f Territorial Adjustment and Tourism to implement and monitor the activities under the project. The
project will use the current World Bank Water PIU which is already successhlly implementing the Water
Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project and the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project. The PIUwill have
full responsibility for: (i)procurement, financial management and disbursement related to the activities
hnded by the GEF grant and the EIB loan; (ii)    financial management reporting for the overall project; (iii)
monitoring/evaluation and reporting for the overall project implementation; and (iv) coordination with local
stakeholders. The GEF hndswill also be usedto complement the PIUwith adequate technical expertise in
constructed wetlands, biodiversity conservation and ecosystem management.              Possibilities o f further
integrating the project management into Government structures will be explored during implementation, in
line with efforts by the Bank to this end across the broader portfolio. To achieve this, TA and training can
be providedto the Ministryo fEnvironment andthe Ministryo fAgriculture and Food.

A detailed descriptiono fthe components is providedinAnnex 2.

2. Key policy and institutional reforms supportedby the project:

The Government o f Albania, assisted by the World Bank, has developed a comprehensive Water Supply
and Sanitation Strategy (official adopted by the Government in October 2003) which calls, among others,
for the introduction o f wastewater treatment in environmental sensitive areas and areas with tourist
potential. The preparation o f the Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy (WSSS) is one o f the priority
measures inthe National Strategy for Socio-Economic Development (NSSED). The project will contribute
to achieve the NSSED monitoring indicators No. 6 for urban water supply and sanitation services and the
WSSS target No. I11(b) for wastewater treatment. The project i s an important part o f the ongoing sector
reform because it is helping the Government to implement the WSSS through e.g. (i)         introducing low cost
wastewater treatment, (ii) strengthening o f local authorities which will be fully responsible for wastewater
treatment, (iii) deliver sustainable wastewater treatment through the help o f a private operator, (iv)
strengthening the monitoring and benchmarking o f the sector, and (v) invest scarce resources for
wastewater treatment inplaces with tourist industry to foster economic growth.

The Government o f Albania i s investing considerable effort in developing laws and regulations to address
environmental issues. The environmental legal framework is covered by a new Law "On Environmental
Protection" and the Law "On Environment Impact Assessment", both approved by the Parliament recently.
Within the existing institutional framework the overall responsibility for managing and monitoring the
natural wetlands and coastal areas lies with the Ministryo f Agriculture and Food. This is regulated by the
new "Protected Area Law" (No. 8906 dated 6/6/2002), and "Protection of Marine Environment from
Pollution (No. 8905 dated 6/6/2002). The very recent approval o f the Law "On Protected Areas" opens
           "

up new interesting opportunities for advanced and integrated management o f protected areas all over
Albanian. Contacts and consultations are at present inprogress between the Ministryfor Environment and
the Ministry for Agriculture and Food, in order to define and agree on joint rules and procedures for the
Administration of Protected Areas in Albania, regulated by the Duties, Tasks and Functions. The Law ``
On Protected Areas    " will allow GOA to set up new management structures for protected areas by means
o f a Decree (By-Law act), which will include a financing plan for the protected area. The present project
will assist the Government in developing and piloting these new management structures which then later



                                                     - 8 -

can be extended to other protected areas inAlbania.

The pilot o f these new management structures will also assist the Directorate for the Management o f
Albania's Protected Areas, which was established recently within the General Directorate o f Forests and
Pasture (GDFP). This new Directorate incollaboration with other relevant agencies, inparticular with the
Unit of Environmental Management Forest Project, is working to implement rules and duties regarding
management o f the Protected Areas in Albania. The improvement o f these management structures i s one
element o f the "Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (BSAP)," which was adopted by the Government of
Albania. This document (financed by GEF) i s an important step for Albania towards implementing the
Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD).

The project will also help to develop processes inAlbania to improve the involvement o f the public in the
decision-making process for sustainable resource management and the use o f naturalprotected areas.

3. Benefits and target population:

At the global level, benefits will be obtained through the reduction o f transboundary pollution into the
Adriatic Sea which is currently endangering numerous species hosted in the coastal and marine
environment. Based on the technical assessment o f the nutrient trapping capacity o f the constructed
treatment wetlands to be financed under this project, about 147 tons o f Nitrogen and Phosphorous and 768
tons o f BOD5 could be reduced annually. Significant global biodiversity benefits are expected. The
constructed wetlands represent a new natural habitat for flora and fauna and therefore increase the
biodiversity o f the area. Also, they represent a buffer zone for the natural wetlands in their proximity.
Specifically the wetlands will have a positive impact on:

    Endangered marine ecosystems and habitats, in medium and infralittoral level (particularly
    Shengjini-Lezha area, Porto Romanobay and Saranda bay);
    Endangered coastal ecosystems: sand dunes, delta rivers (particularly Drini-Lezha), alluvial and wet
    forests, lagoons (Kune and Vaini) and coastal lakes (Kenalla);
    Risks and adverse impacts on biodiversity. Some o f the major adverse impacts have been: habitat loss
    and fragmentation, damage (Port0 Romano bav and Saranda bay) and degradation (Kenalla lake) o f
    habitats and ecosystems, loss of species or the threat o f their extinction - i.e. the monk seal and the sea
    turtZe ranked by IUCN respectively as critically endangered and endangered, living in the waters o f
    Corfb Island, Saranda, Ksamili and Kakome bay; the mouse ear bat, the otter, the ferruginous duck,
    the pygmy cormorant, and the pallid harrier living in Kune Vain marshland, Durres-Rrushkull-Erzeni
    RiverManagedNatural Reserve, Butrintilake area;
    Protection o f the Posidonia Oceanica meadows, particularly in the Shengjini- Lezha and
    Saranda-Ksamili area, but also in the Porto Romano and Lalzi bay. This in turn will have a positive
    impact in protecting beaches from erosion as well as providing hatchery and nutrients for endangered
    species.
    Development o f some algae populations (UZva and Enteromolpha), particularly in Saranda bay,
    Shengjini bay and Porto Romano bay;
    Protection from eutrophication inthe Saranda bay, Shengjini area and Kenalla lake;

At the regional level the project will have a demonstration impact contributing to the creation o fadditional
wetlands and protected areas along the coastlines o f Albania and neighboring countries.             Additional
benefits result from sharing experiences with neighboring countries on the use o f constructed wetlands for
nutrient treatment, and on protected areas and wetlands management. Also, the project will contribute to
developing regional natural resource management strategies and regional eco-tourism opportunities.            In



                                                    - 9 -

addition, at national level there will be progress towards compliance with EU directives and enhanced
capacity o f central, regional and municipal institutions to preserve and manage protected areas and
wetlands.

At the local level the principal beneficiaries from cleaner water resultingfrom nutrient reduction will be
Albanians living in the areas affected by the current damaged environment. In fact the local populations
will benefit from reduced health risk and odor nuisance from untreated wastewater. Also, the Albanian
population at large will benefit from improved water quality suitable for environmentally sound
recreational use at beaches and coastal areas and wetlands. In particular the improved water quality at
beaches will contribute to Albania's economic development by laying the foundation for further
development o f the tourist sector. Apart from the above mentioned benefits to the general population and
the population in the area covered by the component (approx. 260,000), the poor will benefit especially
from the improvements because more o fthem than the average o f the population, live close to open ditches
conveying untreatedwastewater.

4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institzdunal Arrangements: The private operator, already recruited by the participating water utilities
under a management contract, will operate the constructed treatment wetlands as stipulated in the
management contract.      The operator has extensive experience in wastewater treatment and will, in
accordance with the management contract, train the local staff to enable them to successfully and
effectively operate the constructed treatment wetlands. InAugust 2003 the private operator took over the
management o f the water utilities o f Durres, Lezha and Saranda (and Fier which is not included in the
project). He was recruitedunder a five year management contract financed under the Municipal Water and
Wastewater Project. The operator will be paid a fixed fee and a performance based fee in accordance with
the achievements o f targets defined in the management contract. The private operator i s fully responsible
for the utility staff andhas the right to hireand fire staff, and make incentive payments for staffperforming
well. The performance o f the operator will be reviewed by the Contract Monitoring Unit, which i s part o f
the PIU, and by an internationally recruitedindependent reviewer.

The Ministry o f Environment, the General Directorate o f Forestry and Pastures in the Ministry o f
Agriculture and Food, and the Bank project team agreed upon the following road map for improving the
management o f the Kune Vain marshland: The Ministry o f Environment drafts a decree "On Protected
Areas" that would establish the legal basis for the transfer o f all "Hunting Reserves", including the Kune
Vain Hunting Reserve, into "Managed Reserves".           Already during project preparation the Ministry o f
Environment presented the above mentioned decree to the Council o f Ministers (CM) and obtained the
CM's approval. Based on this decree, the Minister o f Environment and the Minister o f Agriculture and
Foodwill issue an order to execute the transfer o fthe Kune Vain HuntingReserve into a Managed Reserve.
The objective for the Kune Vain Managed Area i s conservation and sustainable management o f the Kune
Vain wetland and the Kenalla lake, with the goal o f integrating the conservation o f the important wildlife
habitats with the sustainable management o f regional tourism and the area's natural resources, through an
innovative management system.

Based on the decree "On Administration o f the Protected Areas", which was also already issued by the
Council o f Ministers during the preparation, the Ministry o f Environment and the GDFP will establish a
new administration and management board for the KVMA. Consultations are at present in progress
between the Ministry o f Environment and the Ministry for Agriculture and Food in order to define and
agree on joint rules and procedures for the Administration o f Protected Areas in Albania. The KVMA
Board will include representatives from key ministries, the Lezha District and the Lezha and Shengjin



                                                      -10-

Municipalities, Communes near the Kune Vain marshland, users o f the KVMA, and local and national
NGOs. The KVMA Board will be responsible for creating and implementingthe management plan for the
KVMA. To do so, the KVMA Board will carry out an intensive public consultation program. It is
expected that the area will be separated into different zones with allowable activities defined for each zone.
The KVMA Board will receive TA under the project, including funds for goods and works, to prepare and
implement the Management Plan.

It is proposed that the administrative entity for the KVMA will be established under the budget o f the
General Directorate o f Forestry and Pasture. The responsibilities o f the KVMA Board will be to introduce
a new participatory protected area planning approach. This approach aims (i)         to build capacity within
local user groups and other stakeholders, (ii) implement protection activities, and (iii)to undertake
                                                  to
monitoring and regulatory functions. All these responsibilities will be identified inthe Management Plan.

Implementation Arrangements: The overall coordination o fthe project will be carried out by the Ministry
of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism in close cooperation with the Ministry o f Environment and the
Ministry o fAgriculture and Food. The management of the project will be entrusted to the existing Water
PIUunder the MinistryofTerritorialAdjustment and Tourism.

Implementing Entity: The project will implementedby the Water PIUwhich was established in 1994. The
PIUwas created specifically to implement Bank-financed projects and has already established a successful
track record in its implementation o f these projects. In addition to this new GEF/EIB project, it is
implementing the IDA- financed Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project and Municipal Water and
Wastewater Project. Before these projects the PIU implemented the IDA-funded Durres Water Supply
Project. The Water PIU reports to the Ministry o f Finance and to the Ministry o f Territorial Adjustment
and Tourism.

Possibilities for further integrating the project management into government structures will be explored
duringimplementation, inline with efforts bythe Bank to this endacrossthe broader portfolio. To achieve
this, TA and training can be provided to the Ministry o f Environment (MOE) and the Ministry o f
Agriculture and Food.

Duringproject preparationthe PIU coordinated activities successfully with the MOE, which providedkey
support to the project and was involved heavily inthe decision malungprocess. The MOEwill continue to
provide support to the project and will play a key role during project implementation, especially for the
environmental management and monitoringcomponent, where it will have the leading role indeveloping the
management plan for the Kune Vain marshland. Inthis effort the M O E will be supported by the General
Directorate o f Forestry and Pastures (GDFP) and the General Directorate o f Fisheries (GDF), which both
belong to the Ministryo f Agriculture and Food. Inorder to cover the purely environmental aspects o f this
project, the PIUwill be strengthened by recruitinga biologist/environmental engineer.

All financial management activities will be carried out bythe PIU.

Procurement: All procurement will be carried out by the Water PIU. The Ministry of Environment and
the GDFP will be consulted on all procurement to be carried out under the project components for
Environmental Management and Monitoring and Public Consultation and Replication, and will have a
voting member o f the evaluation committees for this type o fprocurement. The same applies to the KVMA
Board for all procurement related to the KVMA.




                                                     -11-

Funds Flow: Project funds will flow from: (i) Bank, either via a single Special Account which will be
                                                   the
replenished on the basis o f SOEs or by direct payment on the basis o f direct payment withdrawal
applications; or (ii) the Government, via the Treasury at the Ministry o f Finance (MOF) on the basis o f
payment requests approved by the Treasury Department o f the MOF directly to the local supplierfor VAT
and other taxes.

Onlending arrangements: The proceeds o f the GEF grant will be forwarded via a Grant Agreement
between the Ministry o f Finance on behalf o f the Government o f Albania and the International
Development Association. The proceeds o f the loan from the European Investment Bank (EIB) will reach
the three water utilities via a Loan Agreement between the Ministry o f Finance on behalf o f the
Government o f Albania and the EIB. For reasons o f transparency and accountability, it was agreed
betweenthe MOF and EIB that the MOFwould onlend the proceeds to the water utilities on EIB terms. To
allow the water utilities to borrow on these semi-commercial terms, the MOFwill provide the water utilities
withatransparent subsidy.

Operational and Maintenance Expenditures: Already under the Municipal Water and Wastewater
Project, the MOF agreed to cover, for each participating utility, the shortfall between operation and
maintenance expenditures and revenue generation, which i s expected to gradually decline and to be
eliminated over five years o f project implementation, i.e., by 2007.         The additional operation and
maintenance cost for the constructed treatment wetlands will be minor and not change the target date for
covering the operation and maintenance expenditures (see financial model inannex 5).

Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: The PIU will prepare and provide to the Bank, on a
semi-annual basis, consolidated reports on project implementation progress covering the projection for
project financing and implementation, and the status o f project finances, procurement o f goods, works and
consultants' services. The reports will describe the compliance with the Environmental Management Plan
which is a provisiono fthe Grant Agreement.

The project indicators will be monitored through the monitoring program financed under the project. This
monitoringprogram will complement (i) self-monitoring o f the Constructed Treatment Wetlands which
                                           the
will be carried out by the water utilities, which are under the management o f the private operator, and (ii)
the already ongoing monitoring programs carried out by the Ministry o f Environment, the General
Directorate o f Forestry and Pastures, the General Directorate o f Fisheries (GDF) and the UNDEP under
the umbrella o f the Mediterranean Action Plan. The monitoring o f pollution reduction will be executed at
several locations in the coastal areas and the Kune Vain Managed Area. In all participating areas the
project evaluation will also benefit from: (i)   the Poverty and Social Impact Assessment (PSIA) which is
currently ongoing for water sector issues; (ii) the establishment o f water consumer panels in each city; and
(iii) WaterSectorPublicCommunicationProgramwhichiscurrentlyunderimplementation.
    the

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered andreasonsfor rejection:

Duringprojectpreparationvarious designalternatives were considered andevaluated. These include:

CTW versus Conventional Wastewater Treatment Svstems: The option o f conventional wastewater
treatment plants was considered.       This proved to be unaffordable for the participating water utilities
because o ftheir dire financial situation, nor is the Government o f Albania in a position that would allow it
to provide the needed amount o f subsidies for such an expensive scheme.           The preferred altemative,



                                                      - 12-

constructed treatment wetlands, require significantly lower construction and maintenance costs than
conventional wastewater treatment plants and thus offers the opportunity to create a low cost municipal
wastewater treatment system relying on natural processes and reducing to a minimum the operational need
for mechanical devices and energy supply.

The selected CTW option will contribute to lower operation costs for the water utilities, makingthe process
more affordable for all the other utilities that will want to follow the example o f the present project.
Moreover, constructed wetlands represent an additional natural habitat for globally endangered species as
well as a connecting comdor and buffer zone toward already existing ecosystems, thereby contributing to
generate additional global benefits. Ifin the future conventional wastewater treatment becomes affordable
for these Albanian cities, the CTWs could still be used for tertiary treatment. They would then still
provide environmental benefits by hrther reducing the nutrient discharge and still serve as an additional
habitat for endangered species.

Selection of Sites: The sites selected for the establishment o f the Constructed Treatment Wetlands have
been carefully considered through an intensive process o f public consultation that has involved local
authorities, local communities, civil society and several line ministries. Inconsultation with the Ministry o f
Environment specific criteria were established and each altemative site weighed according those criteria.
Criteria included: potential nutrient reduction capacity, land availability, distance from built-up areas,
adequacy o f the site interms o f present and future needs, absence o f physical constraints and proximity to
sites for discharging treated water. Other sites, initially considered to be included inthis project, were not
selected due to the lack o f potential generation of global benefits, conflicts over land use or technical
implementation difficulties.

2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies(completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                                   Latest Supervision
               Sector issue                             Project                       (PSR) Ratings
                                                                               (Bank-f/nance projectsonly)
                                                                               Implementation   Development
 Bank-financed                                                                  Progress(IP)    Objective (DO)




 Water Supply                              Water Supply Urgent                       S
                                           Rehabilitation Project.
 Water Supply and Sanitation               Municipal Water and                       S
                                           Wastewater Project.
 Biodiversity                              (GEF, WorldBank) Albania -                S
                                           Biodiversity EnablingActivity
                                           Completed
 Biodiversity                              (GEF, World Bank) Macedonia               S                S
                                           - Lake OhridConservation
                                           Project
 Biodiversity
                                           (GEF, World Bank) Karavasta
                                           Wetlands Conservation Project



                                          I




                                                     -13-

 3ther development agencies
 Wetland Conservation                      Conservation o f Wetlandand
                                           Coastal Ecosystems inthe
                                           Mediterranean Region (GEF,
                                           UNDP Regional Project)
                                           Ongoing
 Capacity building                         Strategic Action Program for
                                           the Mediterranean Sea (GEF,
                                           UNDP Regional Project)
                                           Ongoing
 WetlandManagement                         Karavasta Lagoon - Wetland
                                           Management Project (EU
                                           PHARE)


3. Lessons learned and reflectedin the project design:

Project design reflects the Bank's experience inthe preparation and implementation o f water and ecosystem
management programs in Europe and around the world. Some o f the critical lessons leamed and applied in
this project's preparationare the following:


0   The early involvement in project concept design o f key stakeholders from across the water, agriculture
    and environment sector as well as o f local communities i s essential in order to ensure ownership, build
     lasting commitment and achieve successful project implementation. A participatory approach has been
    implemented through a process o f consultation that has represented an innovative avenue to arrive to
    common understanding o f the issues related to wastewater management and environmental protection.
     This approach has, in turn, broadened the public consensus and helped in selecting the most
     socially/politically/environmentallyacceptable sites for the construction o f the wetlands in the three
     cities as well as promoting dialogue within the authorities for the management o f the natural protected
     areas.


0    Project design should be kept simple. This was achieved by focusing on management improvements in
     only one specific Managed Reserve, the Kune Vain Managed Area. Although this pilot is expected to
     serve as a very positive example, it was avoided that the project design becomes too complicated, e.g.
     by trying to improve the management o f Nature Reserves everywhere in the country under a project
     with limited resources. By focusing on a specific Managed Reserve, project preparation was more
    thorough and an area could be selected where the Bank has established themselves as a reliant and
     effective partner, and where a healthy mix o f local, national and global benefits are expected.


0    Improvements in water utility management are instrumental to achieve sustainability:            This was
     achieved by linking, almost blending, the project with the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project,
    which focuses on improving water utility management through private sector participation and
     empowering o f local governments.


0    It is essential to maintain support from central governments, but also to emphasize the decentralized
     responsibility for financial and local project management. This was achieved for both, CTWs and
     Kune Vain Managed Area, by obtaining excellent support from the Ministry o f Territorial Adjustment
     and Tourism, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry o f Agriculture and Food (which also
     cooperated well among themselves to provide the necessary support), and by buildinglocal ownership



                                                     - 14-

    and understanding for the project design, project benefits and needs for continuous support for the
    project.

4. Indicationsof borrower and recipientcommitment and ownership:

The Government throughthe Council ofMinisters, the Ministryo fTerritorial Adjustment andTourism, the
Ministry of Environment, the Ministry o f Agnculture and Food including its General Directorate o f
Forestry and Pastures, and the water utilities and municipalities o f Dunes, Lezha and Saranda have all
indicated their full support o f the project objectives. To this end the above mentioned stakeholders have
taken the following actions:

    Enacting the Law "On Environmental Protection" (2002), the Law "On Environment Impact
    Assessment", the Law "On Protected Areas" (2002), and the Law "On Protection o f Marine
    Environment from Pollution" (2002).

    Enacting decrees (i)   which create the legal basis for the transfer o f all "Hunting Reserves" into
    "Managed Reserves" (2003) and (ii)     for setting the framework for creating administrative entities for
    each "Managed Reserve" (2003).

    Duringproject preparation the project team requestedthe Government to impose an immediate stop on
    huntinginthe Kune Vain marshland. The General Directorate o f Forestry and Pasturesacted quickly
    and prohibitedhuntinginthe Kune Vain marshlandinApril 2003.

    The Government is also moving ahead with the reform o f the water supply and sanitation sector. A
    Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy and a comprehensive National Water Supply and
    Sanitation Strategy were adopted by the Government.

    To enable the water utilities to enforce payments for water tariffs the Government has provided the
    water bills with an executive title will allow the utilities to take swift legal action against nonpaying
    customers. In addition the participating municipalities expressed their intention to make the annual
    renewal o fbusiness licenses depending on the prove that the businesses have paidtheir water bill.

    The Government is committed to continuing the necessary sector reform which has gained speed by
    enacting the above mentioned laws and decrees.

    The Ministryo f Territorial Adjustment and Tourism, and the Ministryo fAgriculture have expressed in
    writing that they will make available at no cost the land required for the construction o f the treatment
    wetlands, andhave provided evidence o fthe public landownership.

    All the municipalities have enacted a substantial tariff increase for water supply services and have
    introduceda wastewater tariff inthe beginning o f 2003 and have frequently repeated their commitment
    to addtional tariff increases in the year 2004 and onwards, with the goal to cover all operation and
    maintenance cost by 2007, and thereby achieve independence from Government subsidies for operation
    andmaintenance.




                                                     -15-

5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:

The design o f the proposed project has been tailored to support sector reforms, while responding to the
constraints in Albania. It i s quite innovative in its approach and brings into fruition the sector expertise
that the Bank has accumulated inAlbania and other developing countries. Inparticular the Bank has:

e   Broadinternational experience inintegrated water and ecosystem management;

e   The experience to coordinate closely with other donors which enabled the EuropeanInvestment Bank to
    co-finance the project as part o f their first water sector loanto the Albanian Government; and

e   Policy development expertise and experience in the design o f institutional reforms in the water and
    sanitation sector, as well as inthe environment sector.

In addition the Bank is leading the donors water sector dialogue with the Government and has gained
reputation by assisting the Government indesigningand implementing the reform.


E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit          NPV=US$ million; ERR= % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
   Incremental Cost
0Other(specify)

The objective o f the project is to reduce the sewage pollution load from the three cities o f Durres, Lezha
and Saranda in order to protect and improve the environmental' conditions o f the coastal and marine
habitats. The project supports the creation o f constructed treatment wetlands for wastewater treatment as
well as improved management o f the Kune Vain Managed Area, which contains globally significant
biodiversity.

The detailed Incremental Cost Analysis o f the project i s provided in Annex 11. This analysis utilizes the
typical incremental cost assessment approach. The without-project scenario can be summarized as follows:
Water pollution, mainly generated by the increasing population concentrated along the Adriatic coastline,
has considerably degraded the natural inland ecosystems and the coastal ecosystems.               This in turn
represents a serious threat to the biological diversity of the natural habitats o f the coastal wetlands, rivers
and sea water, as well as a potential risk to public health. Albania has no wastewater treatment facilities
and existingraw sewage outfalls are located either directly on the seacoast, on the bank o f coastal rivers, or
on drainage ditches that after a short distance discharge directly into globally significant tidal marshlands
andor the sea. Inthe context o f the described baseline scenario, at present there are no financial resources
allocated by the Government o f Albania to create wastewater treatment facilities which would reduce the
pollution load o fthe globally important ecosystems.

The difference between the cost of Baseline scenario (US$21,930,000)             and the cost with the GEF
Alternative (US$33,767,000)     i s estimated at US$11,837,000.      This represents the incremental cost for
achieving sustainable global environmental benefits. Of this amount, the Government o f Albania has



                                                       - 16-

committed to finance US$680,000, while US$6,287,000 i s leveraged fiom the European Investment Bank.
The amount requested form GEF i s US$4,870,000. The incremental cost calculation does not include the
expansion o f the sewerage system (US$4,862,000) that will be funded directly by the European Investment
Bank (EIB), but includes the additional EIB funding for the upgraded wastewater treatment
(US$6,287,000).

                                                   GEF            EIB       GOA          Total
                                                   (US$)         (US$)      (US$)        (US$)
       SewagePollution Reduction                 3,960,000     6,287,000   680,000     10,927,000
       Environmental Management and                700,000                                700,000
       Monitoring
       Public Communication and Replication        130,000                                130,000
       Project Management, M & E                    80,000                                 80,000
       Total                                     4,870,000     6,287,000   680,000     11,837,000

The expected global benefit o f the proposed project is the improvement o f the health and habitat o f globally
significant marine and coastal ecosystems along the coastline o f Albania, which will be achieved by
reducing pollution fiom uncontrolled municipal wastewater generated by the urban settlements o f the cities
o f Durres, Lezha and Saranda, and by improving the management o fthe tidal marshlando f Kune Vain near
Lezha.

2. Financial(see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)

Financial Rate o f Retum (FRR): A financial rate o f retum has not been estimated for the project since the
project benefits are principally in the form o f externalities that do not result in a financial benefit to the
participating companies in the form o f increased sales or operating cost savings. However, as seen in the
preceding section on economic analysis, the project has significant economic benefits.

Project Financing Plan:      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$20 million (including taxes and
duties o f US$3.3 million). The project will be financed by a GEF grant o f US$4.87 million equivalent, an
EIB loan o f US$11.15 million equivalent, and a central government contribution o f US$3.98 million
equivalent (covering the cost o f land for the project, and taxes and duties on the project investments).

Financial Assessment o f the Participating Companies:            All three participating companies are also
participants under the ongoing Municipal Water and Wastewater Project (MWWP)which was approved
by IDA'SBoard o f Executive Directors in January 2003. A detailed financial assessment and analysis of
the companies was carried out under the MWWP and reported in the Project Appraisal Document No.
24826 dated December 30,2002 (the relevant extract from the report is includedas Additional Annex 13 in
the current PAD). As reported there, all three companies are at present in a weak financial situation as a
result o f low water tariffs and low collection rates, combined with operating inefficiencies resulting inhigh
operating and maintenance (0 & M) expenses. This has required the central government to provide
operating subsidies to the companies to meet the payments to their suppliers, principally KESH, the
national electricity company. Substantial increases in collection rates, together with progressive increases
in tariff levels and a change in the tariff structure will be necessary to tum the three companies into
financially self-sustaining entities. This is being addressed through the conditionalities for financial
performance improvement that were agreed to in the Credit Agreement under the MWWP and are being
monitored during the implementation of the MWWP. An important feature o f the MWWP i s the
introductiono f a new incentive-based multi-city management contract with a reputed intemational operator



                                                      - 1 7 -

to improve water supply and sanitation services and to achieve financial viability inthe participating water
utilities. The Operator i s already in place under a five-year contract.   As a result o f the remedial actions
being pursued under the MWWP, the financial situation o f the three companies in expected to improve
progressively, resulting in recovery o f all cash 0 & M expenses by 2007 and with hll-cost recovery by
2010 at which stage the companies would have positive net income. The wastewater treatment facilities to
be financed through the present GEFEIB operation will be operated and maintained by the three water
utilities with the help o f the Operator. Since the current project does not provide direct financial benefits to
the companies inthe form o f increased water sales or 0 & Mexpense savings, the approach is to cover the
incremental expenses on account o f the project through corresponding tariff increases.                Financial
projections for the three companies are presented inAnnex 5. It i s projected that the financial performance
targets set under the MWWP would continue to be met, and the increased tariffs will continue to remain
affordable for the populationconcemed.

Fiscal Impact:

The main benefits under the project are the environmental externalities that would accrue to the economy as
described in the cost-benefit analysis section earlier in this PAD. To enable these benefits to be realized,
the central government would have to contribute during project implementation an amount estimated at
about US$3.98 million equivalent to finance land (US$0.68 million), and taxes and duties on investments
(US$3.3 million). In addition, the central government will also provide an interest subsidy to the three
companies inrespect o f the EIBloan (the NPV o f the subsidy over the duration o f the EIB loan is estimated
at US$2.4 million equivalent).

3. Technical:

The Constructed Treatment Wetland is a low cost water treatment technology requiring minimal
maintenance and operation costs. It relies on natural processes in the wetlands which do only need to be
supported through a minimum o f mechanical devices and energy supply. The mechanisms that occur in
these ecosystems (sedimentation, adsorption, flocculation, precipitation, biological decomposition and
metabolism) decrease the concentration o f impurities steadily over the distance the wastewater flows
through the wetlands. Streams, wetlands and lakes all can act as natural treatment systems too, but
wetlands, because o f plants abundance and shallow depth, are especially effective in this task. Therefore
wetlands, whether natural or constructed, have been generally selected as efficient and cost effective means
of municipal wastewater treatment. Should inthe future a conventional wastewater treatment plant, which
could achieve an even better pollution reduction, become affordable for the participating cities, the
wetlands could be used as an effective tertiary treatment that will further reduce nutrient levels and
continue to act as an additional habitat for endangered species.

In Europe CTWs are rarely used for cities the size o f Durres (150,000 inhabitants), mainly because the
required space i s seldom available or too expensive to obtain. Inaddition most o f the European cities can
bear the higher costs o f a conventional treatment plan. To minimize the technical risk associated with the
size o f the CTW, the project team was assisted by an outside consultant which conducted a technical
review of the CTW design which led to krther optimization. Inaddition special attention was paid to the
pre-treatment o f the wastewater before it reaches the CTWs. The design report as well as the design
review report are inthe project files.




                                                      - 1 8 -

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executing agencies:

Executing agency will be the Water PIUwhich i s already successfully executing the Water Supply Urgent
Rehabilitation Project and the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project.

4.2 Project management:

The proposed project will be managed by the Water PIU the Ministry o f Public Works and Tourism, in
cooperation with the three water utilities, the Ministry o f Environment, the Ministry o f Agriculture and
Food, the local authorities and NGOs.

4.3 Procurement issues:

The PIU will carry out all procurement.         Staff from the Ministry o f Agriculture and Food, from the
Ministryo fEnvironment andfrom KVMABoardwillparticipate inwritingTerms ofReference, evaluation
of technical proposals and supervision o f environmental management and monitoring activities. All other
tasks will be carried out by the procurement experienced PIU staff. Therefore no major issues that requires
special attention are anticipated.

4.4 Financial management issues:

The financial management arrangements ofthe project are acceptable to the Bank.

As o f the date o f this report, the borrower is in compliance with its audit covenants o f existing
Bank-financed projects. The PIU's previous and current project financial statements and auditing
arrangements are satisfactory and it has been agreed that these will be replicated for the GEF/EIB project.
The annual audited project financial statements will be providedto the Bank within six months o f the end
o f each fiscal year and also at the closing o fthe project.

The latest Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) confirms that improvement i s required in
the management o f public expenditures, including cash management inTreasury andbetter intemal control
throughout the public sector. Absence o f a solid legal basis for intemal audit further hampers the solidness
of the intemalcontrol. Thus, PIUhas developedpolicies and procedures that operate inaddition to those o f
the current public expenditure management framework to minimize project financial management risks.

The banlung sector inAlbania is relatively weak and the Bank o f Albania where the Special Account will
be opened does not provide normal commercial banking services. However, PIU will open all of its
projects' second-tier Bank Accounts in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank whose financial status
and statements are reviewed on an ongoing basis by the Bank.             As these arrangements have been
satisfactory, they will remain inplace during GEF/EIB Project implementation.

5. Environmental:                           Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessmentand EMPpreparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.

The project will finance the construction o f low cost ecologically based wastewater treatment technologies,
with the major environmental objective to reduce the amount of nutrients discharged into the Adriatic sea;
making the project environmentally beneficial. The project will address global benefits by reducing
pollution in coastal areas and protecting the marine ecosystem from destruction.            Apart from the



                                                      -19-

constructed treatment wetlands and earth dykes planned to protect the CTW from the floods, no new
physical structures o f significant size will be built and no major adverse environmental impacts are
expected. Any potential negative environmental impacts that might emerge, are expected to be localized or
able to be mitigated. Given the nature and locationo fthe areas selected for the establishment o f the CTWs
no impact on cultural properties is expected and also the possibility o f chance finds during construction
activities is assessed unlikely.   Nevertheless,      the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and the
construction contract(s) will provide appropriate instructions for dealing with the above mentioned events.
Due to the nature o fthe CTW's work, the project has been classified as Environmental Category "B". In
accordance with the Bank policy on Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), the Ministry o f Territorial
Adjustment and Tourism incollaboration with the Ministry of Environment carried out the Environmental
Impact Assessment o f the project. A combination o f quantitative and qualitative assessment techniques
(ranging from desk-based analysis, to water and social survey) have been undertaken. The EIA reflects the
environmental guidelines and standards o f IDA which are in line with the recently enacted Albanian Law
"On Environmental Impact Assessment". The EIA describes existing environmental conditions at the three
project sites (including climate, hydrology, soil and water quality, groundwater and biodiversity) and
assesses the potential impacts on these        conditions    from implementation o f the project, during the
construction and operation phases. As part o f the EIA, the EMP was prepared to identify mitigation
measures and monitoring activities that will address potential impacts and therefore provide an adequate
safeguard for the environment. The EIA concluded that the proposed activities are in compliance with the
environmental requirements o fboth the Government o f Albania and the Bank.

5.2 What are the main features o fthe EMP and are they adequate?

The EMP was prepared prior to appraisal. The EMP includes monitoring and mitigation activities for the
three constructed treatment wetlands during project preparation and implementation. Inaddition the EMP
includes: (i) contingency plan to address problems that could develop during facilities' construction and
             a
operation. The contingency plan includes measures for determining and remediating nuisance conditions,
addressing any toxicity observed in the wetland, and dealing with construction, or operational errors, or
unpredictable events; (ii)  appropriate instructions for dealing with Cultural Property Safeguard; (iii)
establishment o f a comprehensive monitoring program for potential dangers to the wetland ecosystem, such
as bioaccumulation, avian botulism and other avian diseases, vector problems, invasion o f non-native
plants and animals, debris accumulation, and nuisance conditions; (iv) guidelines for sustainable
management o f the water regimes in the wetlands, such as procedures in the event o f accidental pollution,
floods, provisiono f optimal treatment capacity; (v) soil removal and selection o f suitable landfills for waste
disposal from the construction phase; (vi) evaluation o f flooding risks and implications for ground water
protection; (vii) environmental management guidelines for contractors; and (viii) procedures for sludge
removal and disposal. Supervision will verify that all these measures are being implemented.

5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
                     Date of receipt o f final draft: March7,2003


The EIA for this project was finalized prior to appraisal. It was reviewed and commented on by the ECA
Safeguard Compliance Unit and changes this Unit requested were included. The final EL4 was disclosed
before Negotiations.    A final public consultation meeting for the EIA will be held before Board
presentation.




                                                       - 20 -

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts andproposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were usedand which groups were consulted?

The preparation o f this project built first on the social assessment that was carried out for the Municipal
Water and Wastewater Project and included focus group meetings and a stakeholders workshops. In
addition a public consultation process involving central and local authorities, municipalities, communities
affected by the project, NGOs and local environmental specialists was carried out. As described in other
parts o f this document, the participatory approach involved all the above mentioned stakeholders. The
consultation process increased awareness o f environmental issues and built public consensus to help
selecting the most environmentally acceptable solutions/sites for the construction o f the wetland in
proximity o f the three cities.

Also it i s expected that consultation with beneficiaries will be on a continuous basis during project
implementation through public relations campaigns conducted by the private operator under the Municipal
Water and Wastewater Project. The EMP was distributed to relevant government bodies, institutions and
NGOs. To facilitate access to the EMP, copies were distributed to local municipalities for public review
and newspaper announcements were made to inform about the key issues and the availability o f the EMP.

5.5 What mechanisms have beenestablished to monitor and evaluate the impact o fthe project on the
environment? D o the indicators reflect the objectives and results ofthe EMP?

Environmental indicators will be monitored annually and obligations for implementation, in accordance
with the Albanian Law on Environmental Protection and the OP 4.01, were includedinthe contract with
the private operator. Consultants (or/and NGOs) will be engaged to monitor project implementation and
conduct periodic environmental audits.


6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.

Environmental problems in Albania, like in most other transition countries, still take a secondary place in
the order o f priorities. The GEF-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project, by reducing
land-based pollution from the three cities o f Saranda, Lezha and Durres and introducing low cost
ecologically basedwastewater treatment technologies to protect, restore and enlarge endangered coastal and
marine habitats would put forward the idea of environmental protection as a public good with significant
social (health), and economic (eco-tourism) effects. Thus the rationale behind using constructed wetlands
for natural wastewater treatment should be well communicatedto and understoodby the authorities andthe
public at large, since the long term effects o fenvironment-related activities affect the entire population.

A needs assessmentwas carried out to analyze the knowledge, attitudes, practices, and barriers to change
the views of all relevant stakeholders. This involved segmenting audiences based on their position,
understandingactors' interests and framingthe issues. This assessmenthelpeddesign a public consultation
program andset the agenda for the discussion on the project activities.

The sanitary and environmental conditions o f the communities livingnear the Chukka channel in Saranda,
and those livingby the open-air sewerage canal in Durres are very poor. The communities showed interest
as they found out that the living conditions might improve as a result o f the project. InDurres the project
will produce visible andtangible benefits intheir livelihood as the channel's water quality will improve and



                                                     -21  -

the waste water redirected. A random sample o f inhabitants interviewed welcomed the initiative. Those
inhabitants, mostly coming from the Kosovo area, established their residence in an area around the
wastewater carrying drainage ditches.

During the communication assessment other issues raised by representatives of local authorities were
whether the capacity o f the CTW would be in line with future population growth and the location in
compliance with urban development plans; how the problem o f mosquito and odor control would be
handled; and what would be the advantageddisadvantages o f investing in a constructed treatment wetland
system vis-a-vis a conventional system. In Lezha particular concerns emerged regarding the
advantageddisadvantages o f the selected alternative; the issue o f landownership, the life span o f the
selected system as well as the treatment o f the sewage waters o f the commune o f Shengjin. All the issues
identified during the above mentioned assessment were satisfactorily addressed during the consultation
process and taken into consideration inthe project design.

6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?

The project i s promoting a participatory approach through a process o f consultation that will represent an
innovative avenue to arrive at a common understandingo f the issues relatedto wastewater management and
environmental protection. This approach will, in turn, broaden the public consensus and helped already
during project preparation to select the most socially/politically/environmentally acceptable site for the
construction o f the wetland in the three cities. It will also promote the dialogue within the management
Board for the management o f the natural protected areas. Buildingconsensus over these issues ultimately
will broaden constituencies support for the water sector reform program currently put inconcrete form in
the National Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy o f the Albanian Government. By increasing public
awareness on the issue o f environmental protection and ecosystem management, the consultations will make
a major contribution to improve environmental governance inAlbania.

Three separate consultations      -structured in two phases - have been held under the auspices o f the
municipalities o f Saranda, Lezha and Durres, organized around the following lines: 1)promotingthe use o f
man made wetlands for wastewater treatment; 2) promoting a dialogue among public institutions and an
effective collaborative decision making within the framework o f the proposed Management Board for the
management o f the natural protected areas o f Lezha; 3) identifying in a participatory manner the main
issues o f concern and possible areas o f improvements. Participants in the first phase included: a) local
authorities (Inspectors o f the Ministry o f Environment, General Directorate o f Forestry and Pasture,
Municipal Representatives, Water Utilities) and Albanian experts; b) local communities affected by the
project; c) local NGOs and environmental specialists.        Participants in the second phase include the
self-selected representatives from the three groups and the four level o f decision making: 1) Council o f
Territorial Adjustment, 2) Ministry o f Environment, 3) Ministry o f Territorial Adjustment and Tourism, 4)
local municipal authorities. Furthermore, duringthe implementation o f the project, a consultation process
will be established to promote dialogue and buildconsensusbetweenthe Management Board o fthe natural
protected areas o f Lezha and all the other involved stakeholders for the preparation and selection o f the
most suitable Management Plan for the natural protected areas o f Lezha.

6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOsor other civil society
organizations?

Inaddition to the participation o f local NGOs, the National Network o f Environmental NGOs has been
involved in the process inorder to guarantee a fair representations o fthe views and concerns o f civil society
organizations. A meeting has been convened by the Ministry o f Environment, with authorities from the
three cities to discuss issues raisedby the members o fthe network and inform the decision making process.




                                                    - 22 -

To increase transparency in government'civil society relations the Bank, within the Municipal Water and
Wastewater Project, is also assisting the MOTAT to develop a public communication program. The policy
dialogue component o f the program includes the creation o f a public information system for water and
wastewater issues as a venue for input and comment by stakeholders. Specifically, this entails a website, an
information point inthe Ministry as well as in other major cities, support to the central public information
center, estabhhment o f a hotline for informationon water, and publicizing o f tendering procedures.

6.4 What institutional arrangements have beenprovided to ensurethe project achieves its social
development outcomes?

The Municipal Water and Wastewater Project will establish a Consumer Panel (CP) in each of the three
cities to enable the population, particularly the poor, to interact directly with management o f the water
utilities about problems and opportunities.       The CPs will help channel constructive suggestions and
feedback o f consumers' specific needs to the utilities. CPs meetings' findings/recommendations about
improvement o f service quality, affordability and other issueswould be communicated to all service users.

6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?

The three cities under the GEFEIB project are included in the ongoing Poverty and Social Impact
Assessment for the water sector that will gauge public perception and understanding o f the government
process, to assess what are the major concerns and priorities o f the general public, as well as the poor,
regardingthe involvement o fthe private sector inthe provision o f water services inAlbania. Currently the
baseline i s established for a Social Impact Monitoring and Evaluation system.

A series o f polls will be carried out throughout the project to evaluate the social impact as well as the
public acceptance of the new system. Inparticular these attitudinal surveys will: 1) identify, evaluate and
monitor critical social indicators measuring the social impacts o f the project; 2) test and value public
awareness, support, satisfaction and concerns towards the project as well as perceptions o f water services
linkedwith health and environment (water quality); 3) compare the value o fwater and wastewater services
with other public services (continuity, reliability, etc.)

7. Safeguard Policies:




     Forestry(OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                 0Yes 0No
     Pest Management(OP 4.09)                                                   0Yes 0No
     Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                              0 Yes 0No
     IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20)                                                 0 Yes 0No
     Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                      0Yes 0No
     Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                          0Yes 0 No
     Projectsin International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                0Yes 0No
     Projectsin DisputedAreas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                      0Yes 0No

7.2 Describeprovisions made bythe project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.

Environmental Assessment: The Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management Plan
were completed before project appraisal.




                                                      - 23 -

International Waterways: The Government o f Albania notified the riparian countries about the project on
July 8, 2003. The letter i s inthe project files.

A careful assessmento fthe project scope and impact leads to the conclusionthat the Project: (i) only
                                                                                                   would
positively affect the quality or quantity o f water discharged into the Adriatic Sea; and (ii) would only be
positively affected by the other riparians' water use. In that respect, the project i s in compliance with the
Barcelona Convention for the Protection o f the Mediterranean Sea against Pollution, signed February 16,
1976, and revised in Barcelona, Spain, on June 10, 1995 as the Convention for the Protection o f the Marine
Environment and the Coastal Region o f the Mediterranean (in particular, Articles 4.2, 8 (a), and 11o f the
Convention). Although it i s not anticipatedthat the Project will have any negative impact on the quality or
quantity o f water in the Adriatic Sea, the riparian countries were provided with relevant details for the
proposed Project, pursuant to paragraph 4 o f aforesaid Operational Policy.

Cultural Property: Although no impact on cultural property is expected, the possibility o f chance finds
during construction cannot be completely ruledout. Therefore the EMP andthe construction contracts will
provide appropriate instructions for dealing with this possibility. During supervision the project team will
verify ifthese measures are implementedproperly.

Involuntary Resettlement: This safeguard policy does not apply because the project does not involve land
acquisition. All land required for the construction o f the treatment wetlands i s owned by the Government
and will be made available for the project. There i s also no resettlement issue because the land i s fallow
land which is not in use - further, there are no squatters or encroachers on this land who will need to be
forcibly removed. The Government confirmed in a letter that the land is owned by the Government,
currently not in use and that it will be made available for the project. The sewerage pipes will be laid in
public roads only   - further, provision will be made in the construction contract to offset any temporary
inconvenience caused by obstructions in access to property. Additionally, during supervision the project
team will verify that there is no resettlement or land acquisition.

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:

The project will achieve sustainability by promoting an integrated approach to management o f wastewaters
and natural resources. The main purpose is to optimize the ecological, economic and social benefits of the
proposed interventions to better preserve the coastal and marine ecosystems. Environmental sustainability
will be achieved by physically reducing the discharges o f nutrient into the coastal lagoon system and sea,
improvingthe monitoring ofthe ecosystem health (water quality and biodiversity status), and implementing
a management plan for the Kune Vain Managed Area. Institutional sustainability will be achieved by
working at local level with a wide range o f stakeholders, buildingcapacity o f the water utilities to manage
the constructed wetlands, strengthening the capacity o f the local water quality monitoring institutions and
the staff o f the Kune Vain Managed Area as well as working with the local communities, farmers, and
other user groups. Financial and economic sustainability will be achieved by introducing a private sector
based management approach to water and wastewater utilities, financial support from the Government to
protected areas as foreseen by the new legislation and by exploring other economic instruments for
management o f the Kune Vain protected areas.          The project builds on several ongoing Government
programs and donor-supported projects that will help sustain the project activities.




                                                     - 24 -

la. Replicability:


The proposed project has a high demonstration value since it i s one o f the first projects in the region to
promote an integrated approach to water and land management based on constructed treatment wetlands.
Other municipalities in Albania are the most likely candidates for replication since the country has no
wastewater treatments and a long coastline with several lagoons and wetlands o f significant value. The
potential for replication inthe whole Mediterranean region is quite high. The project therefore will finance
the development of a replication strategy that includes identification of potential sites for replication and
methods for dissemination of lessons. The project will support knowledge sharing within the country and
the region.
The project will also offer the opportunity to implement some o f the measures proposed by the recently
approved Law on Protected Areas to strengthen the institutional framework for the management o f the
Kune Vain marshlands. The model for management o f the protected area adopted in Kune Vain could be
used in other protected areas in the country.           As identified in the Strategic Action Plan for the
Mediterranean, several hotspots have been identified along the Adriatic coast.



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
                    Risk                           Risk Rating                  Risk Mitigation Measure
 Vom Outputsto Objective
 Lack o f continuing commitment from the                 M          Regarded as modest because the Government
 3overnment o f Albania to the project                              has undertaken significant commitments inthe
                                                                    environmental sector and has also some
                                                                    ecomomic interest inthe project because it deals
                                                                    with tourist areas. The project team will
                                                                    continue the dialogue withthe Government on
                                                                    the benefits o fpollution reduction and natural
                                                                    areas protection.
 Clonsumersunwilling'unable to pay for                   S          1) Willingness-to-pay study shows that
 ryater and wastewater services                                     willingness-to-pay i s highand tariffs are
                                                                    affordable. Also the willigness to pay for
                                                                    wastewater treatment is higher comparedwith
                                                                    other cities inAlbania, because o fthe additional
                                                                    benefits it will bringto the tourist sector.
                                                                    2) Private Operator is expectedto launch public
                                                                    awareness campaign.
                                                                    3) Metering incombinationwith adequate tariff
                                                                    policy will allow poor customers to reduce
                                                                    consumption and pay less.
 Project not be able to foster economic                  S          Ongoing dialogue betweenthe Bank and the
 growththrough creating an enabling                                 Government through ESW and the entire project
 mvironment for tourism, ifthe                                      portfolio.
 Sovernment fails to further develop
 sustainable environmental strategies,
 including the enforcement o fproper urban
 2ndcoastal zone planning.




                                                       - 25 -

From Components to Outputs
Lack o f commitment o f local communities                S            A comprehensive ManagementPlanwill be
and user groups to protected the Kune                                prepared following a participatory planning
Vain marschland.                                                     approach and mechanisms will be established
                                                                     for stakeholders' consultation. Strategies will be
                                                                     developed to prepare localpopulation for new
                                                                     job opportunities arising throughout the project
                                                                      area and any negative impact on existing user
                                                                      groups, e.g. fishermen, will be mitigated.
Inadequate capacity for the management                   N           The operation and maintenance o fthe CTWs
and maintenance o f CTWs andthe                                       will be handed over to the private operator
protected areas.                                                      involvedinthe Municipal Water and
                                                                     Wastewater Project, which has suffucient
                                                                     capacity to manage and maintain the CTWs.
Inadequate financial resources for                       S            The Government o f Albania is making
management andmaintenance o fthe                                      considerable commitments in addressing
protected areas.                                                      environmental issues. Administrations will
                                                                      receive support to develop fund-raising plans for
                                                                      long-term financial sustainability.
Possible increased pollution load into                   M            (i) offeraveryrobustandresilientform
                                                                         CTW's
wetlands and coastal areas ifthe project i s                          o fwastewater treatment that would not fail
successful inincreasing waterwater                                    completely even ifbadly managed;
collection but not inwastewater treatment                             (ii) CTWtechnologyhaslowoperationcost
                                                                         the
                                                                      and represents one o fthe most affordable
                                                                      options for the cities;
                                                                      (iii) designoftheCTWwasindependently
                                                                           the
                                                                      reviewed; and
                                                                      (iv) the intemational operator is capable to
                                                                      operate the CTWs properly.
Overall Risk Rating                                      S
Risk Rating- H (High Risk), S (SubstantialRi!    1,M (Modest Risk), 1 :Negligibleor Low Risk)


3. Possible Controversial Aspects:

The project i s not considered controversial, since the proposed interventions have the support from local
communities and authorities. One possible controversial aspect i s the potential indirect impact caused by
the community perception o f restricted access to resources inthe protected areas. To mitigate this aspect,
the development o f the management plan for the Kune Vain Managed Area will be done in close
consultation with local stakeholders.       The participatory planning approach that started during the
preparatoryphase will continue during project implementation.

G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition

The GrantAgreement has been duly authorized or ratifiedby Albania.

The EIB Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient, and is legally bindingupon
the Recipient inaccordance with its terms.



                                                       - 26 -

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditionsfor Negotiation

0   Confirmation from the Ministryo f Territorial Adjustment and Tourism and the Ministryo f Agriculture
    and Food, that the land foreseen for the constructed treatment wetlands i s owned by the Government
    and will be made available to the local governments for the construction of the treatment wetlands
    (confirmed to the Bank in a letter dated September 30, 2003).


0   Approval o f the National Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy by the Council o f Ministers (the
    Strategy was approvedby the Council o f Ministers on October 16, 2003).

Financial Covenants

PIUwill maintain a financial management system acceptable to the Bank. The project financial statements,
SOEs and Special Account will be auditedby independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and on terms o f
reference acceptable to the Bank. The annual audited statements and audit report will be provided to the
Bankwithin six months o fthe endo f each fiscal year.

Dated Covenants

The National Council o f Territorial Adjustment o f Albania issues the construction site and construction
permission for the construction o f the Constructed Treatment Wetlands by March 31, 2005.

Other Covenants

The Recipient shall ensure that all measures necessary for the carrying out o f the Environmental
Management Plan shall be taken ina timely manner.

The Recipient shall ensure that a qualified operator for the operation o f the Constructed Treatments
Wetlands shall have beenretainedina timely manner to enable their effective operation.




                                                    - 27 -

H. Readinessfor Implementation
E3 1. a) The engineeringdesigndocumentsfor the first year's activitiesare completeandreadyfor the start
        of project implementation.
0 1.b)Notapplicable.

Kl2. Theprocurementdocumentsfor the first year's activitiesare completeandreadyfor the start of
      projectimplementation.
Ixi3. The ProjectImplementationPlanhasbeenappraisedandfoundto berealistic andofsatisfactory
      quality.
   4. The following itemsare lackingandare discussedunderloanconditions(SectionG):



I. Compliancewith Bank Policies
El1.ThisprojectcomplieswithallapplicableBankpolicies.
02. ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpoliciesaterecommendedforapproval. Theprojectcomplieswith
      all other applicableBankpolicies.




Team Leader                            Sector Manager                         CountryDlrecto;




                                               - 28 -

                                  Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                ALBANIA: Integrated Water and Ecosystems Management Project
                                   Key Performance             Data Colle
 Hie                      es           Indicators                                           Critical Assumotions
sector-related CAS Goal:      sector Indicators:               Sector/country reports:    from Goal to Bank Mission)


 0 Improve infrastructure         Framework developed for       0Project Status reports   0  Government committed
   and create institutional       protection o f natural        0Project's Implementation    to environmental
   environments conducive         resources                      Completion Report           sustainability.
   to infrastructure              Enforcement o f               0Country reports
   sustainability.                environmental
                                  regulations improved
   Promote environmental       0  Concrete decentralization
   sustainability and             o f environmental services
   sustainable use o f natural    to local government -
   resources                      quantified
                                  Integration o f
                                  environmental
                                  considerations in sectorial
                                  policies - number of
                                  environmental units
                                  established - effectiveness
                                  o f environmental units



SEF Operational Program:      htcome I Impact
~




                               ndicators:

3P12: IntegratedEcosystem
Management.
3P2: Coastal, Marine and
FreshwaterEcosystem
3P9: Integrated Ecosystem
Management




                                                          - 29 -

                                   Key Performance
                               -                             Data Collection Strategy
                                       Indicators                                           Critical Assumptions
EIobalObjective:               Iutcome I Impact              project reports:             from Objective to Goal)
                               idicators:

The global objective ofthe     0  Improved health o f         0 Project Status reports.    0 No additional negative
project i s to improve the        posidonia oceanica          0 Project's Implementation     environmental impact
health and habitat conditions     (seagrass) meadows:           Completion report.           will occur inthe project
o f the global significant        biomass per surface unit;   0 Coastal Monitoring           area, e.g. oil spill from
ecosystemsalong the coastline     shoot density, epiphyte       report.                      tanker.
o f Albania, by significantly     growth and area covered.    0 Kune Vain Monitoring       0 Local and Central
reducing uncontrolled                                           report.                      Government are
wastewater discharged into      0 Improved biodiversity in                                   continuing their
international waters and          KuneVain Managed                                           commitment to
improving the management of       Area regarding the                                         environmental protection
the tidal marshland o f Kune      following flagship                                         inthe area.
Vain.                             Classes: Malachofauna,                                   0 Government honors their
                                  Herpetofauna, Avifauna,                                    commitment to support
                                  and Mammalia.                                              the water and wastewater
                                                                                             utilities inthe
                                0 Decrease nutrient load                                     participating cities.
                                  causedby the wastewater                                  0 Management Contract
                                  to the marine                                              wifh Private Operator
                                  environment inthe                                          successfully implemented
                                  project area and the Kune                                  (under separate IDA
                                  Vain tidal marshland as                                    project).
                                  follows:
                                  Nitrogen: 115t/a
                                   Phosphorus: 32 t/a


                                0 IntegratedManagement        0  Project Status reports.   0 Commitment o f all
                                  Plan implemented for        0  Project's Implementation    stakeholders to
                                  Kune Vain Managed              Completion report.          implement KuneVain
                                  Area.                       0  Annual Kune Vain             Management Plan
                                                                 Report.                      continues.
Project Development Objective

The Project Development         0 Wastewater collection
Objective is to improve           and discharge inthe
wastewater services inthe         participation cities
 cities o f Durres, Lezha and     improved.




                                                        - 30 -

                                  Key Performance             Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchyof Objectives                 Indicators                                           Critical Assumptions
htput from each               Iutput Indicators:              'roject reports:             From Outputs to Objective)
:omponent:
Sewage Pollution Reduction     a CTW constructed and           0  Project Status reports.     Government Counterpart
Component                        operational.                  0  Project's Implementation    funds provided ina
                               0 Removal efficiency of            Completion report.          timely manner.

 0  Reduce sewage pollution      CTWs: 50 percent for                                      0  N o flaws indesign o f
    load into coastal areas      Total Nitrogen                                               CTW.
     and KuneVain                (unfiltered), 25 percent                                  0  Landprovidedby
    marshland.                   for Total Phosphorus                                         Government ina timely
                                 (unfiltered), and 70                                         manner.
                                 percent for BOD5
                                 (unfiltered).


 0   CTW socially accepted.    0 Number of         complains
                                 received by the utilities
                                 regarding the operation of
                                 the CTW (odor, noise,
                                 mosquitos etc.): less than
                                 3 percent o f customers
                                 complains.
SnvironmentalManagement
Ind Monitoring Component

 0 Increase capacity to        0 Adoption o f the Kune         0  Project Status reports.  0  Incentives for rangers in
   managethe protected           Vain Management Plan          0  Project's Implementation    place to participate inthe
   Kune Vain wetland.            that includes process            Completion report.          training and stay inthe

 0  Improve environmental        indicators, stress                                           job afterwards.
    monitoring capacity in       reduction indicators, and                                 0   Sufficient monitoring
    KuneVain Managed             environmental status                                         capacity available inthe
   Area.                         indicators.                                                  country, e.g. Tirana

 0  Improve environmental      0 Implementation o f a basic                                   University.
   monitoringcapacity in         monitoring system ofthe
    coastal areas.               coastal areas.


PublicCommunicationand
ReplicationComponent

  0  Public communication      0 Stakeholders                   0 Project Status reports.  0   Replicationpotential
     program carried out.        consultations for the          0 Project's Implementation     exists.

  0   Increase awareness for     preparation and                  Completion report.       0   Substantial numbero f
     protecting the              implementation o f the                                        interested decision
     biodiversity inthe          KuneVain Management                                           makers can be identified
     project area.               Plan ongoing throughout                                       and mobilized.

  0  Increase the level on       the lifetime o f the project.
     transparency and public   0 Environmental Education
     participation on water      and Communication
     and environmental           Program delivered.
     issues                    0 Coordination betweenthe
  0  Promote replication o f     Central, local authorities
     the project inother areas   and private operator
     o f Albania and the         communication activities



                                                          -31 -

     region.                   achieved
                            0  Replication Strategy
                               developed and
                               implemented.
                            0  Informationto local
                               communities and decision
                               makers at potential
                               replication sites provided.
                             0 Consensus building
                               program for decision
                               makers implemented.


 Project Management
 Component

                                                                                           Operational support from
  0  Project Management,     0 PKJoperational.              0 Project Status reports.   0

     Monitoring and          0 Project progress reports     0 Project's Implementation     key government agencies

     Evaluation established    delivered on schedule.         Completion report.           provided.

     and operational.




I




 Project Components I       nputs: (budget for each         Voject reports:             :Tom Components to
 Sub-components:            :omponent)                                                  Iutputs)

 Sewage PollutionReduction  Budgetsin US$:                   0 Project Status reports.  0  HighqualifiedPIUstaff
                                                             0 Project's Implementation    can be maintained at all

  0  Wetlands               [ncrementalCost:                   Completion report.          times.

  0  Main collectors
  0  Land acquisition       GEF:
                            Wetlands:
 EnvironmentalManagemenl    3,960,000
 andMonitoring              3nv. Manag./Monit.: 700,000
                            heplication:
 PublicCommunicationand     130,000
 ReplicationComponent       ?roject Management: 80,000

 ProjectManagement          4,870,000

                            GOA:
                            Land acquisition: 680,000
                                                   680,000

                            EIB:
                            Wastewater Treat.
                            5,287,000
                            Sewerage:
                            1,862,000

                            11,149,000


                                                       - 32 -

Baseline:
[DA:
aanagement Contract which
ncludes the operation of the
;ewage systems is financed by
DA under the Municipal
Water andWastewater Project

                   21,930,000

rota1Proiect cost:
3EF:
t,870,000
30A                   680,000
ZIB:                -
5,287,000
                 11,837,000




                          - 33 -

                               Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
               ALBANIA: Integrated Water and Ecosystems Management Project

By Component:

Project Component 1 Sewage Pollution Reduction US$15.79million
                       -                              -
Total: US$15.79million; GEF:US3.96 million, EIB: US$11.15million, GOA: US$O.68_million)
The sites for the Constructed Treatment Wetlands (CTW) have been carefully selected through a process o f
public consultation that involved local authorities, local communities, civil society and different line
ministries. In consultation with the Ministry of Environment specific criteria were established and each
altemative site weighed according those criteria. Criteria included: potential nutrient reduction capacity,
land availability, distance from built-up areas, adequacy o f the site in terms o f present and future needs,
absence o f physical constraints and proximity to sites for discharging treated water. Other sites, initially
considered to be included inthis project, were not selected due to the lack o f potential generation o f global
benefits, conflicts over landuse or technical implementation difficulties.

The GEF funds will support the creation o f altogether 92 ha o f Constructed Treatment Wetlands (CTWs)
inthree already identifiedsites inproximity o fthe urban areas of Durres, Lezha and Saranda. Mechanisms
that occur in these ecosystems (sedimentation, adsorption, flocculation, precipitation and biological
decomposition) will substantially decrease the concentration o f polluting substances flowing through the
wetlands and reduce the impact o f untreated wastewater o f urban origin on the internationalwaterways and
coastal marshlands. The artificial wetlands offer the opportunity to realize a low cost wastewater treatment
systems that relies on natural processes and reduces the need for energy supply. The evaluation o f
altematives has been carried out through a multi-criteria approach that included: environmental impacts,
project costs, local conditions, institutional framework, training and monitoring requirements, hydro
geological and health risks. The construction works will include civil works, equipment and construction of
infrastructure which will regulate water flows through the wetlands, which will allow to optimize nutrient
trapping and biodiversity restoration.

Financial support from the European Investment Bank was identified. It will finance sewage collectors to
connect the existing sewerage outflows of the three urban areas o f Durres, Lezha and Saranda to the
constructed treatment wetlands, the pretreatment facilities to improve the overall performance o fthe natural
system, and the rehabilitation and extension o f parts o fthe existing sewerage network. The construction o f
those sewerage infrastructure will halt the uncontrolled sewage discharge directly into the coastal lagoon
systems that is currently occurring and constitutes the most relevant threat for the survival o f the globally
important coastal marine ecosystem and tidal marshlands. Furthermore the EIBwill support the connection
o f the Shengjin area to the CTW in Lezha.            Shengjin represents an important natural ecosystem
characterized by the presence of marshlands, the Kanalla Lake and by a long beach with a littoral
pine-wood on the coastal dunes. Connecting Shengjin to the CTW will contribute to the protection o f this
important environment which i s locatedjust next to the Kune Vain Managed Area.

The following tables show a more detailed break down o f the investment costs for the Sewage Pollution
Reduction Component:




                                                     - 34 -

I                                  Albania lntearatedWater and Ecosvstems Manasement Proiect
                                             -                                                                                           1
I                                                        SEWAGE&WWTP SYSTEMS
                                                              COST BREAKDOWN                                                             I

                                                                          Cost Estimate  Land, TaxaDuty     Cost without tax&Duties
                                                                               $            GOA($)         GEF ($1           EIB ($1

1-SEWERAGE COST

  Sub-Total 1.1                                     Construction Works
                                                          Cost Estimate
                                                                            4,834,845.70       920,130.70    NiA            3,914,715.00
    Physical Contingency                         (15% of Cost Estimate)


                                                                              725,226.85       138,019.60    NIA              587,207.25
                                                           Sub-Total 1.2

                                                                            5,560,07255     1,058,150.30     NIA            4,501,922.25
                                  Engineering & Consultancy services
                         Engineering cost for Final Design (see attached)                      NiA           NIA
                              Supervision of Works(8% of Sub-Total 1.2)       360,000.00       N/A           NIA              360,000.00
                                       TOTAL INVESTMENT COST ($)
                                                                            5,920,072.55    1,058,150.30     NIA            4,861,922.25

2-WWTP COST

  Sub-Total 2.1                                     Construction Works
                                                          Cost Estimate    10,638,500.00    2,386,600.00   3,189,800.00     5,062,700.00
    Physical Contingency                         (15% of Cost Btimate)
                                                                            1,595,775.00       357,990.00   478,470.00        759,405.00
                                                           Sub-Total 2.2
                                                                           12,234,275.00    2,744,590.00   3,668,270.00     5,822,105.00
                                  Engineering & Consultancy services


                       Supervisionof Works(8%of Sub-Total 2 GEF+ElB)          765,000.00       NIA          300,000.00        465,000.00
                                       TOTAL INVESTMENT COST (8)
                                                                           12,999,275.00    2,744,590.00   3,968,270.00      6,287,105.00


3-TOTAL INVESTMENT COST (1+2)
                                                                           18,919,347.55    3,802,740.30   3,968,270.00     11,149,027.25




                                                                 - 35 -

I                          Albania Integrated Water and Ecosystems Management Project
                                   -                                                                  1
                                       SEWERAGE SYSTEM SUB-COMPONENT
                                                  COST BREAKDOWN                                      I
                                                       b             WWTP COST BREAKDOWN
                                                                                        out tax&Dutie!
t                                                                                       T
                         "0, rsa
 1)-GOA (US$)
 1.I)-Land (including tax and duties)
 2)-Cost for EIB component ($)
 Cost (without taxes and duties):
 2.1)-ln-let & out-let main sewage collector               724,500.00
 2.2)-North-Eastern sewage system (Beach area):
     (i)-Main collector extension (KFOR area)             402,500.00
    (ii)-Secondary sewer and house connection (KFOR        241,500.00
    (ii)-Improvement of existing n"6 PS                    241,500.00
    (iii)-PS n"6 and PS n" 7 sewage connection             72,450.00
                              Total for EIB componenl   I,682,450.00                     I,682,450.00
 2.3)-Taxes and duties EIB component                       381,038.70    381,038.70
                Total Cost Sewage system for Durres      2,063,488.70    381,038.70      I,682,450.00
                    Lezha B Shengjin
 1)-GOA
 1.I)-Land (including tax and duties)
 2)-Cost for EIB component (0)
 Investmentcost (without taxes and duties):
  2.1)-Lezhe main sewage collectors (CTW in-let & out      644,000.00
  2,2)-Shengjin main sewage collector (CTW in-let)         410,550.00
  2,3)-Lezhe/Shengjin secondary system & house conr        563,500.00
                              Total for EIB componeni    I,e1a,o50.00                    1,618,050.00
  2.3)-Taxes and duties EIB component                      390,759.08     390,759.0t
       Total Cost Sewae svstem for Lezhe&Shenajin        2,008,809.0a     390,759.0t     I,GI 8,050.0o

 1)-GOA
 1.1)-Land (including tax and duties)
 2)-Cost for EIB component ($)
 Cost (without taxes and duties):
  2.1)-New main sewage collector to CTW (incl. CTW I 292,215.00
  2.2)-Sewage city system extension                        322,000.00
                              Total for EIB componen'      614,215.00                       614,215.0C
  2.3)-Taxes and duties EIB component                      148,332.92
              Total Cost Sewaae svstem for Saranda         762.547.92                       614.215.0C
t
I                                          Sub-Total 1
                   Construction Works Cost Estimate      4,834,845.70     920,130.70  -  3,914,715.0C
                                Physical Contingency
                                 (15% of Cost Estimate)
                                                           725,226.85     138,019.60  -     587,207.2:
                                           Sub-Total i
                                                         5,560,072.55   1,058,150.30  -  4,501,922.2f
                 Engineering 8 Consultancy services
        Engineeringcost for Final Design (see attached)
                                                                           NIA
              Supervision of Works (8%of Sub-Total 2j      360,000.00      NIA              360,000.0t
                        TOTAL INVESTMENT COST ($)
I                                                        5,920,072.55   1,058,150.3o  -  4,861,922.2!
        TOTAL INVESTMENTCOST EIB () (l=l,l$j                                           I 4.419.929.3;




                                                            - 36 -

                                       Albania Integrated Water and Ecosystems Management Project
                                                -
k
                                                           COST BREAKDOWN
                                                                               WWTP COST      'EAKDOWN
                                                                             Land, Tax8Duty        Cost without tax8Duties
                                                                                                                      -...
                                                                                Goa ($1           GEF fS1     1     EIR IS1
                           Durres
1)-GOA (US$)
                                                                 293,900.0(        293,900.0C

Cost (without taxes and duties):
2.1)-Free Water Surface Wetland                                2,030,300.0(
                                                                                              ___t_
                    Total cost for GEF component (US!          2,030,300.0(                      2,030,300.00
 .2)-Taxes and duties GEF component                              406,100.0(        406,100.0C
 )-Cost for EIB component ($)
Cost (without taxes and duties):
3.1)-WWTP
 (+Flow measurement 8 Bar racks                                   79,800 OC
 (ii)-Aerated grit chamber                                        54,800 OC
 (iii)-Division unit                                              56,400 OC
 (iv)-Aeration tank (two-line)                                 2,455,800 OC
 (v)-Secondary settlement tank (two-line)                      1,863,200 OC
 (vi)-Operational Building                                        69,300.0C
                                                                                              --t
                                 Total for EIB componer        4,579,000.0C                                         4,579,000.00
3.2)-Taxesand duties EIB component                                                 926,800.00
                             Total Cost WWTP for Durre                           1,626,800.06    2,030,300.00       4.579.000.00
                     Lezha 8 Shengjin
1)-GOA
1:l)-Land (including tax and duties)                             193,300.OC        193,300.00
 )-Cost for GEF component (US$)
Investment cost (without taxes and duties):
2.1)-CTW "Fully natural solution"                                603,900.0C
                    Total Cost for GEF component (US(            603,900.0C                        603,900.00 1
2.2)-Taxes and duties GEF component                              120,800.0C        120,800.00
3)-Cost for EIB component (5)
Investment cost (without taxes and duties):
3.1)-Pre-treatment facilities & Aerated oxidation pond:
 (i)-Flow measurement & Bar racks                                 36,300.00
 (ii)-Aerated grit chamber                                        20,200.00
 (iii)-Aerated Oxidation Pond                                    161,100.0C
 (iv)-Operational Building                                        24,200.00
                                 Total for EIB componer          241,600.00                                           241,600.00
3,2)-Taxes and duties EIB component                                                           I
                   Total Cost WWTP for Lezhe8Shengji
                          Saranda

1.1)-Land (including tax and duties)                             193,300.00        193,300.00
2)-Cost for GEF component (US$)
Cost (without taxes and duties)
2.1)-CTW "Fully natural solution"                                555,600.0C
                    Total cost for GEF component (US3            555,600.00                        555,600.00
2.21-Taxes and duties GEF component                              111,200.00        111,200.00
%)-Costfor EIB component (I)
Cost (without taxes and duties):
3.1)-Pre-treatment facilities & Aerated oxidation pond:
 (i)-Flow measurement & Bar racks                                 52,400.00
 (ii)-Aerated grit chamber                                        28,800.00
 (iii)-Aerated oxidation pond                                    128,900.00
 (iv)-Operational Building                                        32,300.00
                                Total for EIB cornDonen         242.100.00
3.2)-Taxes and duties EIB component                              70;300.00
                                                                                                   555,600.00 1
                                                                                                              I
                           Total Cost WWTP for Sarandal                                                               242,100.00

                                               Sub-Total 1
                      Construction Works Cost Estimate
                                                             10,638,500.00      2,386,600.00     3,189,800.00       5,062,700.00
PhysicalContingency                                  (15%
                                         of Cost Estimataj

                                                              1,595,775.00         357,990.00      478,470.00         759,405.00
                                               Sub-Total 2

                                                             12,234,275.00      2,744,590.00     3,668,270.00       5,822,105.00
                    Enaineerina 8 Consultancy services
                         Engineering cost for Final Design      NIA               NIA              NIA                NIA
       Supervision of Works (8% of Sub-Total 2 GEF+ElBl         765,000.00        NIA              300,000.00         465,000.00
                             TOTAL INVESTMENTCOST

                                                             12,999,275.00      2,744,590.00     3,968,270.00       6,287,105.00




                                                                      -37 -

Project Component 2 Environmental Management and Monitoring US$0.70 million
                      -                                               -
(Total: US$0.70 million; GEF: US$0.70 million)
The component will assist the Ministry o f Environment and the Ministry o f Agriculture and Food to carry
out the following tasks: (i)Technical assistance for the development o f the Kune Vain Management Plan
including a plan for stakeholder participation in management o f natural resources and economic incentives
for long term sustainability; (ii)Training for Kune Vain administration staff, rangers, staff from the
relevant line ministries and members o f NGOs on natural resource management and integrated ecosystem
management; (iii)Implementation o f selected priority measures identified in the Kune Vain management
plan and other measures that improve the environmental conditions o f the receiving waterways; and (iv)
Design and implement a monitoring program for water quality and biodiversity indicators inthe Kune Vain
Managed Area and the coastal areas impacted by the project (including provision o f technical assistance
and equipment as needed).

The project indicators will be monitored through the monitoring program financed under the project. This
monitoring program will compliment (i) self-monitoring o f the Constructed Treatment Wetlands which
                                           the
will be carried out by the water utilities, which are under the management o f the private operator, and (ii)
the already ongoing monitoring programs carried out by the Ministry o f Environment, the General
Directorate o f Forestry & Pastures (GDFP), the General Directorate o f Fisheries (GDF) and the UNDEP
under the umbrella o f the Mediterranean Action Plan. The monitoring o f pollution reduction will be
executed at several locations in the coastal areas and the Kune Vain Managed Area. In all participating
areas the project evaluation will also benefit (i)from the Poverty and Social Impact Assessment which is
currently ongoing for water sector issues, (ii)from the establishing o f Water Consumer Panels ineach city,
and (iii)from the Water Sector Public Communication Programwhich is currently under implementation.

Project Component 3 Public Communication and Replication US$ 0.13 million
                      -                                          -
(Total: US$0.13 million; GEF:US$0.13 million)

This component will finance the following activities: (i)Organization o f a stakeholder consultations
program for the preparation and implementation o fthe management plan for the Kune Vain Managed Area;
(ii) andimplementawarenesscampaignsonprojectgoalsandbenefitsofanintegratedecosystem
    Design
management, local communities' role and responsibilities inmanaging natural resources including payment
of environmental services (partly covered by IDA project); (iii)  Organization o ftraining andworkshops for
practitioners and decision-makers on the technical, economic and environmental benefits o f constructed
wetlands and integrated ecosystem management; (iv) Design and implementation o f an environmental
education and communication program for local communities; (v) Design and implementation o f a pilot
teacher's training program in ecology and environmental education in selected schools; and (vi) Technical
assistance to develop a replication strategy, including the identification o f methods o f information
dissemination, and o frepeater projects. These activities are linked to the undergoing Public Communication
program o f the MOTAT, financed under the IDA credit, as well as the communication and consumer
relationprogram o fthe private operator.

The GEF funds will also finance the dissemination of the project's findings to other cities o f the region and
investigations to expand the project's approach. The proposed project design has a high potential for
replication inAlbania. Natural wastewater treatment using Constructed Treatment Wetlands may become
a demonstration area for similar projects in Albania as well as other developing countries o f the
Mediterraneanregion.




                                                    - 38 -

Project Component 4 Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation US$0.08 million
                       -                                                -
(Total: US$O.O80 million; GEF: US$O.O80 million)
This component will support a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the Ministry o f Territorial
Adjustment and Tourism (MOTAT) to implement and monitor the activities underthe project. The project
will use the current World Bank Water PIUwhich is already successfully implementing the Water Supply
Urgent Rehabilitation Project and the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project. The PIU will have full
responsibility for: (i)
                      procurement, financial management and disbursement related to the activities hnded
by the GEF grant and the EIB loan; (ii)financial management reporting for the overall project; (iii)
monitoring-evaluation and reportingfor the overall project implementation; and (iv) coordination with local
stakeholders. The GEF funds will also be used to complement the PIU with adequate technical expertise in
constructed wetlands, biodiversity conservation and ecosystem management.           Possibilities for further
integrating the project management into Government structures will be explored during implementation, in
line with efforts by the Bank to this end across the broader portfolio. To achieve this, TA and training can
be provided to the Ministry o f Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food.




                                                    - 39 -

                                             Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                 ALBANIA: IntegratedWater and Ecosystems Management Project

                                                                                                  Local                Foreign                   Total
                                                                                               US $million          US $million              US $million
1. Sewage Pollution Reduction                                                                       0.00                   0.00                     0.00
1.a Wastewater Treatment Facilities                                                                 0.58                   9.02                     9.60
1.b Sewerage                                                                                        0.00                   4.27                     4.27
2. Environmental Management andMonitoring                                                           0.00                   0.62                     0.62
3. h b l i c Communication and Replication                                                          0.00                   0.09                     0.09
4. Project Management, Monitoring & Evaluation                                                      0.00                   0.07                     0.07
Taxes and Duties                                                                                    3.30                   0.00                     3.30
Total Baseline Cost                                                                                 3.88                 14.07                     17.95
 Physical Contingencies                                                                             0.07                   1.30                      1.37
 Price Contingencies                                                                                0.03                   0.65
                                           Total ProjectCosts                                       3.98                 16.02                     20.00
                                   Total Financing Required                                         3.98                 16.02                     20.00




IncrementalOperating Costs




   I
    Identifiable taxes and duties are 3.3 (US6m)andthe total project cost, net oftaxes, is 16.7 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 29.16% of
   total project cost net of taxes.




                                                                     - 40 -

                                                  Annex 4
                                               STAP Review
            ALBANIA: Integrated Water and Ecosystems Management Project

                              STAP Review of the GEFProject Component

  GOVERNMENTOF ALBANIA: INTEGRATEDWATER& ECOSYSTEMSMANAGEMENT

                                            Richard Kenchington
                                            RAC Marine Pty Ltd
                                            PO Box 588, Jamison
                                            ACT 2614, Australia

Scientific and technical soundness

The detail provided on the operational design o f constructed treatment wetlands was limited, but the
scientific and technical basis o f using wetlands to reduce the level o f sewage pollution contaminants
flowing through to environmental waterways i s sound. The project i s linked with the Bank's Municipal
Water and Wastewater Project and addresses the critical issue o f reducing nutrientpollution resultingfrom
untreated discharges from the cities o f Durres, Lezha and Saranda. It makes an important environmental
linkage by also addressing the preparation and implementation o f an effective Management Plan for Kune
Vain natural reserve.

The basic premise is to implement environmentally sustainable natural wastewater treatment and link this
with improved management and monitoring o f areas with globally important biodiversity. Ifsuccessful it
will address an important element o f the environment/poverty linkage and should contribute to building
national awareness o fthe importance andbenefits o f addressing environmental issues.

The proposal is also linked with the EU PHARE financed Karavasta Lagoon - Wetland Management
Project and the UNDP GEF project on Conservation o f Wetland and Coastal Ecosystems in the
Mediterranean Region. It also links with the Mediterranean Action Plan (MAP)funded and coordinated by
the UnitedNations Environment Program (UNEP) andwithinMAP to the Program for the Assessment and
Control o f Pollution in the Mediterranean Region. More broadly, it builds upon and should extend the
practical demonstration o f implementation and benefits o f comparable pollution reduction projects being
undertaken incatchments draining into the Baltic and Black Seas.

Global environment benefits and costs

Nutrient pollution o f enclosed seas has been identified as an environmental issue o f global significance.
Major changes in the Adriatic Sea have been attributed to very high levels o f eutrophication with impacts
on the habitats o f endangered species and biological diversity generally.         If this project achieves its
objectives it will have clear benefits in addressing a significant source o f nutrient pollution o f the Adriatic
Sea from Albania.

The context ofGEFgoals andguidelines

The project clearly addresses the issues o f surface water contamination within the context o f
environmental-poverty linkages. It should bring early benefits through improvements to public health and



                                                    -41 -

the living conditions o f some o f the poorest people. With adequate attentionto informationand education it
should help to generate understanding o f the social and economic importance o f the benefits o f good
environmental management.
The project i s consistent with the objectives GEF Operational Programs No.2 Coastal, Marine, and
Freshwater Ecosystems; Number 8,          L LWaterbody Based Operational Program ", which focuses "on
seriously threatened water-bodies and the most important trans-boundary threats to their ecosystems".
No.9 Integrated Land and Water Multiple Focal Area; No.10 Contaminated-Based and No.12
"Integrated Land and Water Multiple Focal Areas Operational Program ". It applies the guidelines with
respect to incremental costs and the log-frame.

RegionalContext

The project i s important in the context o f addressing eutrophication and other pollution related threats to
the Adriatic and IonianSeas.

Replicability

This project builds on experience o f projects addressing conservation and management o f wetlands in
catchments draining into the Black and Mediterranean Seas. It is replicating and extending this experience
in the socioeconomic context of the development of Albania. The clearly stated intention in the design
concept is that this will develop experience and capacity to replicate similar practices in other catchments
draining into the Adriatic and Ionian Seas. The proposal addresses survey and selection of sites for
replication.

Sustainability

The use o f constructed treatment wetlands is part o f a longer term strategy o fprogressing from the current
situation o f discharge of untreated sewage into marine and riverine waterways to advanced water treatment.
Itwillbringsome immediate environmentalimprovements.


Inthe longer term as the financial situation ofthe water cycle companies is stabilizedthe strategy envisages
investment in secondary treatment facilities with the constructed and natural wetlands operating to provide
advanced tertiary treatment with an increasingrange o f benefits from flows of unpolluted waters. Progress
beyond this project to the complete treatment cycle will depend on community willingness to pay the
consequent water and sewage charges. This intum will depend upon demonstration to the community and
continuing appreciation by decision-makers of the economic, environmental and social benefits o f high
qualitymanagement o fwater and sewage, andofthe Kune Vain protectedwetland.

Contributionto future strategiesandpolicies

As discussed above, success with this project should contribute to the broader adoption o f high quality
water and sewage management and protection of environmentally significant wetlands inAlbania.




                                                      - 42 -

Involvement of stakeholders

The project proposal recognizes that at this stage o f its development:

  "environmental problems in Albania, like in most other transition countries, still take a secondary
   place in the order of priorities ` I




and that Albania:

  "lacks a politically active and environmental conscious elite to actively steer the country toward an
    environmentally conscious development".

To achieve extensionneededto securethe long term benefits o fthis project will require:

  "decentralized andfinancially self sufficient management units with a strong involvement of local civil
    society."



A key element for the future is willingnessto pay. Inthis case that will dependon awareness o fthe social,
economic and environmental benefits o f water treatment and wetland management and o f the costs o f
failure to manage.

The proposal indicates that

    "the rationale, benefits and objectives of the project should be made known to all stakeholders
    through effective public awarenessprograms. The benefits of sustainable wastewater treatment need
    to be demonstrated and the results widely disseminated.''

There is no discussion of approachesto achieve this beyond:


     " it is expected that consultation with beneficiaries will be on a continuous basis during project
    implementation through public relations campaigns conducted by the private operator under the
    Municipal Water and WastewaterProject. "

There i s no provision for community or school based education inthis process andthis is a significant issue
given the critical importance o f developing the necessary understanding to achieve long term willingnessto
pay.    Other environmental projects have demonstrated the benefits o f accelerating the acceptance o f
information into communities through school children having good information and discussing it within
family groups and through encouragement o f discussion through local activities in the media, cultural and
community groups.

Riskassessments

To the extent that Ican judge, being unfamiliar with the field operating situation, the risks seem to be
reasonably discussed and Igenerally concur with the assessments. In particular the identification o f
willingness to pay as a substantial risk suggests that, as discussed above, a more deliberate and costly
education strategy would strengthen to the proposal.




                                                     - 43 -

costs

Ihaveinsufficientoperationalexperienceinthetargetareatomakesubstantialcommentonthedetailof
fundingallocations. However the budget for replication is very small, US$lOO,OOO out of US$5.5 million
GEF or almost US$13 million total. Giventhat replication funding will inany case be used for identifying
and surveying additional sites for replication there is no effective provision for education in this item. It
may be subsumed under another heading but that i s not apparent. Inthe light o f comments above on the
role o f school and community education in development o f willingness to pay Iwould suggest that the
design team consider making clear provisionfor an education component of the program.

Conclusion

This is an important project addressing the issues o f sewage pollution, wetland in ways that reasonably
reflect the operating constraints of the transitional status o f Albania. Subject to adequacy o f provisions for
education as a means to address immediate and longer term willingness to pay Irecommend that it should
proceed.

RA Kenchington
RACMarine PtyLtd
1March2003




                                                      - 44 -

                          WorldBankResponseto STAPReviewer Comments

The STAP reviewer recognizes the importance o fthe project in addressing the issues o f sewage pollution in
coastal areas and the Kune Vain tidal marshland. H e further concludes that the project reasonably reflects
the operating constraints o f the transitional status o f Albania. He points out the important environmental
linkage aimed to promote and improve the management o f the natural protected area o f Kune Vain. Also,
hejudges the risks assessmentreasonably discussed and evaluated.

Nevertheless,    the STAP reviewer emphasizes the critical importance o f developing the necessary
willingness to pay which in turn represent a key element for the future sustainability o f the project. In
particular he points out the lack o f an education component in the project that would help to develop the
necessary understanding towards the concepts o f environmental protection and cost recovery and therefore
to strengthen the willingness to pay o f the communities.

As correctly noticed by the STAP reviewer, this project is linked with the Bank's Municipal Water and
Wastewater Project (MWWP) o f which is an integral part. The project benefits from the results o f the
socio-economic analysis carried out and the institutional and implementation arrangements established
under the MWWP. The MWWP aims to increase the sustainability o fwater supply and sanitation services
through the involvement o f the private sector and the associated improvements in financial and operational
management. On the other hand the presence o f a knowledgeable intemational operator will contribute to
create the local capacity in operating and managing the constructed treatment wetlands. According to the
social assessment the willingness to pay is high. Most households are willing to pay the new tariff. In
addition, almost all households are willing to pay the monthly fee to connect to the central sewage system
and to receive septic-tank cleaning service. Preliminary financial calculations show that the wastewater
treatment will increase the sewage tariff by only 2-5 centdm3 and therefore will not have a negative impact
on the willingness to pay. Furthermore the MWWPpays attention inestablishing mechanisms that increase
public awareness. Public communications activities, awareness campaigns on water and sanitation services
and the need to pay for them are part o f the contractual obligations o f the operator. The project will also
sponsor the establishment o f a Consumer Panel (CP) to enable those who use water to interact directly with
the management andto channel constructive suggestions back to the utilities.

The measures taken in the MWWP are to be considered a sufficient direct contribution to create the
required public awareness and to guarantee the understandingo fthe principles o f sustainability also for this
project. Nevertheless the recommendations o f the STAP reviewer have beentaken inconsideration and the
PAD has been revised and, subject to the GEF approval, the replication promotion component has been
expanded to incorporate an education program aimed to accelerate the acceptance o f the new concept o f
sustainable management into communities through dissemination o f information in the schools and
encouragement o fdiscussion through local activities inthe media, cultural and community groups.

The STAP reviewer questioned on the implementation o f a basic monitoring system o f the coastal areas.
Albania is among the contracting parties to the Barcelona "Convention for the Protection o f the Marine
Environment andthe Coastal Regiono f the Mediterranean", which revised in 1995 the "Convention for the
Protection o f the Mediterranean Sea against Pollution," o f 1977, still in force. Albania and the other
contracting parties to the Barcelona Convention are also part of a comprehensive Mediterranean Action
Plan funded and coordinated by the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP) which, among others,
has the objective to protect the Mediterranean Sea against chronic or accidental pollution.        Under the
responsibility o f the Secretariat o f the Mediterranean Action Plan one o f the activities implemented under
the MAP i s the Program for the Assessment and Control o f Pollution inthe Mediterranean Region (MED


                                                      - 4 5 -

POL) for which a program to monitor marine pollution is carried out on regular basis for identified
pollution "hot spots".      For Albania the Faculty o f Natural Science o f the University of Tirana i s
implementing the program o f collecting and analyzing environmental indicators. Inaddition the project will
finance the establishment o f a monitoring program for water quality, biodiversity and socio-economic
indicators within the protected areas and the coastal zones involved inthe project.

The STAP reviewer asked clarifications on the criteria and budget for the decision malung mechanism for
the management o f natural resources at the municipality and community level. According to the action
plan that the Government is implementing towards an integrated and sustainable management o f the
protected areas, the Ministry o f Environment and the General Directorate of Forestry and Pastures will
establish a new administration and management board for Kune Vain. This Board will include among
others representatives o f the Municipalities and Communes, civil society and a formal representation o f the
users o f the KVMA. It i s proposed that the administrative entity for the KVMA should be established
under the budget o fthe General Directorate of Forestry and Pasture.




                                                    - 46 -

                                    Annex 5: Financial Summary
                ALBANIA: Integrated Water and Ecosystems Management Project


                          ANNEX 5, TABLE 1: PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
                                            (US$ million)

I                                          I     2004     2005  2006  2007 2008  Total


Project Costs
Investment costs                                 2.61     5.44  5.44  5.44        18.94
Environmental Managementand Monitoring           0.08     0.16  0.24  0.16 0.16     0.81
PublicCommunicationand Replication               0.02     0.03  0.05  0.03 0.03     0.15
Project Management                               0.02     0.02  0.02  0.02 0.02     0.10
    Total Project Costs                          2.73     5.65  5.75  5.65 0.21   20.00

Total Project Financing Required                 2.73     5.65  5.75  5.65 0.21   20.00


Project Financing Provided
  GEF grant                                      0.49     1.37  1.46  1.37  0.18    4.87
  EIB                                             1.12    3.34  3.34  3.34         11.I5
  Central Government                             1.12     0.94  0.95  0.94  0.03    3.98
    Total Project Financing                      2.73     5.65  5.75  5.65  0.21  20.00

I                                          L                                            I




                                                 -47-

                        ANNEX 5, TABLE 2: SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS


                                               2001    20021 2003 2004  2005 2006 2007   2008 2009 20101
                                                Actual                       Projected


DURRES
Domestic water tariff (LeWm3)                  21.o    21.o   35.0 40.8 47.3  52.1 59.3  68.0 70.3 64.6
Domestic metered                                               4.0 16.8 32.1  39.3 39.7  60.2 62.9 63.4
Billed revenues(Lek million)                    205     211    307 465  594    730   931 1099 1159 1089
Collected revenues (lek million)                 70      95    166 279  386    504   735  912  997  970
Collectionratio (%)                             34       45     54  60   65     69   79    83   86   89
Cash operatingexpenses (Lek million)           463      398    397 522  576    629  696   682 686   695
Operating subsidy required (Lek million)                       216  180  100    40    0     0    0    0
Net income after subsidy (Lek million)         -457    -389    -77 -132 -180  -198   -94   26   75   44
Working ratio                                   6.6      4.2   2.4  1.9  1.5    1.2  0.9  0.7  0.7  0.7
Current ratio                                   0.3      1.2   1.0  3.3  3.3   3.1   2.8  3.9  4.4  3.1
Receivableslcollectedrevenues (months)          9.4      7.8   4.5  2.7  1.9    1.5  1.o  0.8  0.7  0.8
PayableslCashoperating expenses (months)       28.6      4.0   6.0  2.1  1.6    1.6  1.6  1.5  1.6  1.6



LEZHA                                                       I                                1
Domestic water tariff (LeWm3)                  15.0     15.0  28.0 35.8 43.3   50.8 52.7 62.0 71.5 86.0
Domestic sewerage tariff (LeWm3)                               4.0 14.6 26.4   38.2 43.2 55.6 68.4 86.0
Billed revenues(Lek million)                     19       19  40.1   68   99   118   120  140  163  198
Collected revenues (Lek million)                  6        6  18.0   38   59    82    95  116  140  178
Collectionratio (%)                              33       34    45   55   60    69    79   83   86   90
Cash operating expenses (Lek million)            43      43     59   79   86    95   106  113  115  122
Operating subsidy required(Lek million)                         40   30   15      3    0    0    0    0
Net income after subsidy (Lek million)          -44      -56   -21  -33  -39   -45   -52  -47  -26     1
Working ratio                                   6.9      6.7   3.3  2.1  1.5    1.2  1.1  1.0  0.8  0.7
Current ratio                                   0.5      0.6   0.7  0.8  0.9    1.3  1.7  2.9  4.4  6.9
Receivableslsalesrevenues (months)              9.8      9.5   3.3  1.6  1.o    0.7  0.6  0.5  0.4  0.3
PayableslCashoperating expenses (months)        1.5      1.1   1.1  1.0  1.0    1.0  1.1  1.1  1.2   1.2


SARANDA
Domestic water tariff (LeWm3)                  15.0     15.0  26.0 34.1 34.0   34.0 38.6 42.9 44.0 44.9
Domestic Sewerage tariff (LeWm3)                               5.0 14.7 20.3   26.0 37.9 37.8 37.6 44.9
Billedrevenues(Lek million)                      13       13    27   75   91    88    92  115  119  128
Collected revenues(Lek million)                   4        5    11   37   54    61    73   96  102  114
Collection ratio ("h)                            33       34    39   49   59    69    79   83   86   89
Cash operating expenses (Lek million)            27       27    51   63   69    74    83   86   87   89
Operating subsidy required (Lek million)          0        0    44   20    8      5    0    0    0     0
Net income after subsidy (Lek million)          -27      -27   -46  -32  -24   -26   -25  -11   -5     0
Working ratio                                   6.2      6.1   4.9  1.7  1.3    1.2  1.1  0.9  0.9   0.8
Current ratio                                   0.6      0.6   0.9  0.8  1.8    2.3  2.8  3.8  4.5   5.4
Receivableshevenues (months)                    4.7      5.1   2.7  1.0  0.8    0.8  0.8  0.6  0.6   0.6
Payableslcashoperating expenses (months)        5.0      5.4   2.0  2.0  2.0    2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0   2.0

I




                                                       - 48 -

                                       ANNEX 5, TABLE 3   DURRESW 6 S COMPANY. PROJECTEDFlNANClAL STATEMENTS
                                                                        (OW Lek)


                                                   2000       2001       20         2003       2004       2005        2006     2047     2008        2009        201


                                                                                                                                                                    I
INCOMESTATEMENTS


    r. domestic metered                           14862      15722      163        36551      79429     189959      349636   541750   47211       690205
        omestic - unmeterad                      128509     135944     1400       203684     226449     202117      136828    67137    82770      49137

        induslry and instkutians                  37756      39940      399        47280      51969      54885       57509    58306    62127       55570

        bulk upp ply and Other                    12762      13500      135        13500      28052      15108
                                                                                    moa       61984     101161      150481   225283   2a3iz8      322262
       ge - industryand m(Itut8ons                                                  4826      17221      30705       35358    W 8 7    44062       41954

                                                 193889     205107     2106       306832     465104     593936      729810   930963  1099297     1159127

                                                     33          34                    54         60         55          69       79      a3          88

       Icollectedrevenues                         63983      69736      947       165689     nw62       386058      503569   735461   912416      99w9




                                                 142270     188500     1779       i8a879     196216     201223      221096   250014   249533      253311

                                                  73583      92951     1015        62614     100273     119398      138303   155248   159967      183684

   miair and materials                            28450      29152      300        53033      53190      51918       50067    49511    49000       48409
   airs a maintenance                             12824      13299      202        27013      34196      43280       53340    65123    58527       58311

                                                                                    8807      11319      12010       12388    1 2 W    12759       12918

                                                                                   15425      34644      73166       78980    84714    53864       53864

                                                                                        0     41933      16612       11281    13477    15425

                                                  14663      16000      178        21120      50WO       56114       65125    75142    84501       94961
   tal cashoperatingexpenses                                                      396691     521772     575717      628558   69563    691596      685835

                                                  SOW0       60000      600        82181      68630      90292      113349    133297  146571      148735

                                                 228266   12665335     1300.      141143     18W1       207878      228241    195542   186880     182278

   till operating (NiPB"SlBS                     5598%      849888     5677       WOO14      776613     87x886      968148   1024832  1015048     99w9

                                                  12180      12180      121        29851      31357      35122       39196    42440    43490       40519

                                                                       -121       -29851     -31357     -35122      -39198    42440

                                                  12180      12180      243                                                            43490       40519

                                                                                                 776     11667       25668    39669    46689       46669

                                                                                                 537      8059       17729    27400    32235

                                                                                                 241      3608        7939     12269    14434      48669

                                                                                               -241      -3608       -7939    -12269

 Net interestcharger on El8 svbiosn                                                                                                 14433.723 46669.03819 46869.0381

                                                   4103

                                                -374044 456961.106  -389358.     -293183    -311540    -279950      238339    -93664   26326       75290        ur)
                                                                                  216000     l8woO      100000       40000

                                                -374044 -456961.106 589356.       -77183 -131539.508 -179960.49 .198338.519   -93689   26326       75290        44290




                                                 278398     409717     5486       687752     873794    1061671     1307912   1503415  1890295    ia52573

                                                 228286     354919     4849       626110     812151    1020429     1246270   1441772  1628652    1790930

                                                  48132      54798      816        61643      61643      61843       81643     81843    61843       61843

                                                 137185     141301     1455       149906     154403     159035      183806    168720   173782     178995

                                                                                   49065      56349      51970       M418     175792   221622      69585

  O b 1 cumnt assets                             185317     198099     2071       250614     272395     272648      275866    406155   457046     330203

                                                4126032    4128032    41260     155882.54   4651861    5470485     6188494   6861968  6970187    6970187

                                                1375344    1435344    14955     557524.71  1626354.9   1716647     1629997   1963294  2109665    2258600

                                                2750668    2690886    283061     2598356    3025306    3753638     4358498   4a98.m   4860323    4711567

                                                2036005    288m87     2837s      2858~72    3m1oi      4026186     4835364   5304830  5317369    5041790


 isbllitiesandequity
                                                 648430     154411     19881       67825      70556      74445       62786     87861    69015       90421

                                                   8069      13763      118        12091      12578      13271       14754     15662    15868       18119


                                                 Ed499      168174     210L        79915      83136      87716       97520    103523   104882     106539

                                                1624000    1624000    163611    881455.55 198024702    2367606     2864602   2921083  2877531    2525005

                                                                                              96465     366748      685361    986304   986304     986304
                                                2278499    1792174    le481      1681r156   a76712     nm%         3349984   3907287  3853836    3511310

                                                                                              31200     124799      218398    311998   311998     311998

                                               1031550     1925617    22113      2395147    2535736    2668453     2776856   2882966  2911371    2911371

                                                -374044    -631005    122031    -1220363   -1207546   -1428065    -1609036  -1807374 -1901044   -1874718

                                                                                  -77163    -131540    -179950     -196339    -93869    26326       75290
                                                 651506    1094612     99101     1097601    1137852    1182216     1187880   1203920  1348BW)    1423941

                                               2936005     2886787    28378;




                                                                                         -49-

.nnex 5, Table 3 (cont.)
                                                               20w   2001   201     2003     2004     2005        2006       2007     2008    2009      20

JURCESAND APPLiCATlONSOF FUNDS
,"re*
91 income (beforesubsidy. mgmt fees. sev pmtr. 8 interest)                       -277758  ,234982  -188173     -150097       4522   153538   218342   18OC
i d Depiaciation                                                                   82181    68830    90292      113349     133297   146571   148735   1487
j d Provisionfor bad debt                                                         141143   186C41   207878      226241     195502   188860   162276   11%
Ne! internal generalion                                                           -74434    19910   IC9997      189493     333321  486989    527355   448E
"lending of IDA credn                                                              15425   272742   358883      267438     227572   149103

IA iDC capitalizalion (add-back 10 sub-loan)                                       29851    31357    35122       39198      42440

EF grant                                                                                    31200    93599       93599      93599

nlending of EIB loan                                                                        96225   286874      288674     288674

B IDC capmlmtion (add-bad to sub-loan)                                                        241     3608        7939      12289


wemment contributionfor:
- MWWP locaicountemanfinancing(,nu.taxes8 duties)                                           32450    36940       25960      13470   12980
.iWEMP   iocal mvnteipafifinancing (ind iand,taxes & dutms)                                 68206    73163       73163      73163
- mlemsl subsidy horn God. to DWSC                                                            537     8059       17729      27400
-operational subsidy                                                             216000    l8OWO    100000       40000
.IBVemnCe    pamanta                                                                        41933    18612       11261      13477   15425
.Senlementaf   p a ~anem to eiectricny supplier
                     t                                                           183777
 Tola1of Govammentcontribution                                                   399777   3211~)    238773      168133     133510   28405
 Total soures                                                                    370618   772803   1128658     1054473    1131386  6E4497    527355   448E


pplicationr
WWP projectinvestments(includingtaxes and duma)                                           270548    324857      216438     162329   108219

lEMP prOiectinvestments (includingtaxesand duties)                                         193633   455436      455436     455436
ICcapnaliration (IDA and EiB)                                                     29851     31598    38731       47135      54709

teres1payment by Go*. on EIB ioan                                                             537     8059       17729      27400
anqementfees                                                                       15425    34644    73166       76860      84714

svemnm payments                                                                             41933    18612       11281      13477    15425

lerert payments on iDA and 10JubiOanS                                                                                               57923     87188    81<
incipairepayments on IDA and El6 subloans                                                                                           176263   176263   1762
hangerinworking capital                                                          276277    187318   207929      221208     194414   190582   165834   125
nanges rn cash and bank                                                           49065     12592     2067        8285     138907   116084    98070    Mf
Total applications                                                               370618   772803 1128551.71 1054472.723 1131385.57  6 W 9 7  527355   448f
                                                                                                                                                        ..




                                                                                        - 50 -

                                                                 ANNEX 5. TABLE4  LUHA W (L S COMPANY. PROJECTED FlNANClALSTATEMENTS
                                                                                                (000 Lek)

                                                                     20w           2001        2oD         2003         2004       2005      2008     2007     2008     2004     miu
                                                                              Actual                                                       prowtea
COME STATEMENTS
venues
itei - domesticmetered                                                                                      1015       11031      26770     45304    61516    76070    92126
lter domertic- unmeteied                                             11597        10940        1094       27270        38465      37935     27523     9693     4612     4034
iter - indvrtiyand i n ~ t i l ~ l m s                               7695          7446        744         9140        11259      12209     13291     12064   11302    10786
itei - buik supply and other                                           232          219         21          1460        1480       $500      1520     1540     1540     1.560
werage. domestic                                                                                            226         4321      14476     22759    27620    36621    46417
rerage - industyand instnUlions                                                                             938         3663       5780      7958     7654     7966     6059
rota1billed revenues                                                 19724        18507        1850       40069        88259      98670    118358   120290   140110   162994
,Ileaion ratio (%)                                                      32           33          3           45           55           W       69       79       63       86
Total coliected revenues                                             8312          8140        832         18031       37542      59202     81666    95029   118291   140175


.p*,nser
,ancity                                                              17142        21450       2262        30960        32364      33608     35720    36162    41741    46029
:nonnei                                                              15672        16700        1732        14663       19579      24334     29642    34644    36171    38659
iemicalsand mateilais                                                 1019         1720        193         2769         3867       3928      4096     4290     4437     4607
!pal's8 maintenance                                                    4 w          440         49          1016        3119       4246      5620     7139     7473     7805
inagemen1fees                                                                                               1679        3712       7866      6219     9103     9103     9103
!"erame payments                                                                                              0         7756       3313      2167     2736     3229
intingencierand other cashexpentes                                                                          6WO         8400       6610      9370     10241   10605     11279
retaiCash operatingexpenlies                                         34433        42509       4257         59130       78818      85904     94656   108317   112980   115485
!PreClatiO"                                                          6735          7415        19M         19651       21937      27526     34350    40665    44345    44579
OYISIO~far bad debt                                                       0       12487        1226       22038        30716      39468     36690    25261    23819    22819
rob1opntingBIPPII~S                                                 U 1 I         62390       7469        101019      131469     152898    165898   172463   181123   182883
A debt interestandfinancial charges(at 1.50%)                                                               470          576         665     1227      1496    1607     1965
SJ. capitaloed amount                                                                                       470         -576        -685    -1227     -1496
Vet chargeson IDA deh                                                                                         0             0          0        0         0    1807      1966
B loan interest and financial charges 10 the Gwemment (at 4.65'                                               0          693       3466      7624     11763   13882     13662
emst subaldyfrom Go*. to LWSC                                                                                 0          479       2394      5286      6139    9433     9359
8 subloaninterest andfinancial charger to LWSC (st 1.50%)                                                      0         214        1072     2358      3M4     4429     4493
55:capilalized amount                                                                                          0        -214       -1072    -2356     -3644
Nel interestcharges on El8 Iubioan                                                                             0            0          0        0         0    4429      4493
Net income before oprationrlsubsidy                                                                                                          ____
                                                                    -23444        43763       6606        -60960      6321t       -54228    47539    -52174   47249    -26347
                                                                                                                                     ~~


,erational subsidy                                                                                         40OW        30300       150W      ?"M
He1income afteroperational subsidy                                  -23444       43783        -5808       -26950      -33211      -39228    44539    .52174   47249    .X347     1047


\LANCE SHEETS
set*
08s accovnl6 receivable                                               5016        17463        2971        51602       62518     121966    156676   183937   207758   230575   2542761
:os Pmvisionrfai bad debt                                                 0       12467        2474        48766       77502     116970    153660   176921   202740   225559
?tamunts receivable                                                   5016         5016        501          5016        5016        5016     5016      M16     5016      5016
*entones                                                               223          339          38          571        1046        1144     1263      1371    1429      1490
.her current -sets                                                                                          3269        5253        6170    15085     25646   51691     86523
Total S""       arras                                                 5239         5355         533         8878       11317       14330    21344     32038   58136     93029
' o s fixed assets                                                  17W21        266056       55841       558680      682876      636326   1003874  1165107 1176842   1176842
ISS: Accumuiateddeprecmtion                                          34004        41419        612f        61112      l03M9       130575   164924   205610   250154   294734
Net fued assets                                                     136017       228637       49714       477786      559627     707754    636950   959296   926666   682109
 Totalassets                                                        1412%        231992       502s        488644      57w        72208*    860293   941334   984824   975137


abilities andequity                                                                                                                                                            "29981
m u m payable                                                         6309         7769         70s         9575       11225       12454    14075     15746   16771     17730    16746
ther shonterm payable5                                                1953         2411         241         2633        2952        2666     2776      3106     3306     3497     3696
lher current liabilities
Total current liabiiitier                                             8252        10200         951        12408       14177       15320    16851     18852   20080     21228    22444
#Adebt (Inciudingcapotalizedinterest)                                                                       2149       27449       61414    67670    110876   130109   131965   133821
B w b b m (including capitalizedmteten)                                                                        0       28790      115613   203716   293105   297392    301679   305956
Total liabilitis                                                      8m          10200        951         14558       70422      192347   308137   422833   447560    454872   U P 3 1
EF giant                                                                                                       0        9280       37119    64958     92798   92798     92798    92798
3pMi and ie~ewes                                                    132994       245237       6602e       680263      612630      653234    892254   733032   749025   756364   787696
itained esinings                                                          0      -23444       -87Z        -67227      46177      -121386   -160518  -205156  -257329  -304576  -330925
irrent yea prowloss                                                 -22444       -43763       -5608       -20950      - 3 u i i   -39228    4 3 9    -52174   47249    -26347     1097
 Total equity                                                       132994       221793       49303       472086      491242     492618    487096   475703   444448    427468   437670
 Total liabilltiar and equity                                       141256       231992       502Y        486644      570944      722084    860293   991334   9WU      975137   992898


DURCESAND APPLICATIONSOF FUNDS
,"me*
st income (beforeIUbSidy.mgmt. fees, BY. pmlr, 8 intsrest)                                                -56601      -51167      -42164    -35908   -38637   -33109   -15279    121
I d Deprectation                                                                                           19651       21937       27526    34350     40665   44345     44579    44:
I d Prwsionfor bad debt                                                                                    22038       30716       39468    38890     25261    23819    22619    23i
Net internal gsnrntion                                                                                    -16912        1466       24829    35134     27309    35054    52420    8W
nlendingof IDAciedn                                                                                         1679       24724       33060    25029     21710    17505
IA IDC capMiilrltion(add-back to sub-lean)                                                                   470          578         665     1227     1496
EF grant                                                                                                                9260       27639    27639     27639
nlendingOf El6 subloan                                                                                                 26582       65745    65745     65745
,BIDC capblization (add-backtosubiaan)                                                                                    214       1072      2358     3M4


ovemmenl MntlfbUtiOn for:
.MWWPlocal      uunterpanfinanclng(incl. taxes 8 dulies)                                                                8325        9990      6680     4995     3330
 IWEMP locdluunteipan finanung(lnd. land,taxes 8 dales)                                                                35807       24907    24907     24907
 interest subsidyto LWSCon EIB sublean                                                                                   479        2394      5286     6139     9433     93%      9305
- operaW" subsidy                                                                                          400W        3woo        150W       3m
.SeYermM                                                                                                                7756        2313      2167     2736     3229
.senlemsntof  payments
                p s t anems to eieandty suppiier
 Total government conbibutionfor proj+ct                                                                   40000       82387       SSM      42020     40778    19992     9389     9305
 Total*OYrca.                                                                                              252%       wm          mn        219352   208523    685%     81469    89778

ppliclionr
W P projea investments(includingtaxes and dam)                                                                         29337       35204    22470     17602    11735
YEMP projectinvatmsnts (includingtaxes 8 duties)                                                                       73669      138491    138491   138491
IC mpblization (IDAand 10)                                                                                   470          790       1957      3585     5140
terelpaymemby Gobi. on El0 ioan                                                                                           479       2344      5266     8139     9433     9359     9305
aMgm"tke9                                                                                                   1879        3712        7666      6219     9103     9103     9103     9103
eYeranCe payments                                                                                                       n 5 6       3313      2187     2738     3229
iincipairepaymentson IDAand EIB rubiasns
hanges inwohing capMl                                                                                      19330       29424       38421     36279    23368    22849    21731    2252%
hanges L cash and bank
atal spplicalionr

                                                                                                             - 51 -

                                                            ANNEX 5, TABLE 5  SARANDA W L S IPANY. PROJECTEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
                                                                                             IO L*k)
                                                                                                    2003       2004     2005    2006        2047     2008      2009
                                                                                                                                 ",-.-,an

COME STATEMENTS
WB""ed
later- domeitismetered                                                                                776     10748    23544    33926       50396   75532    80930
later domestic- unmeteied                                       6538         6731       673        17854      50170    47086    29061       11200    5039      3910
later. indurtiyand instnutions                                   3494         3450      365         5620       5958     5437    4903         -51     4600     4209
later- buik supplyand other                                     2600          3099      309         1960       1960     1980    2000         2020    2MO       2060
ewerage. domestic                                                                                    260       4018     10545   14933       20106   24532    25117
eweage - indurtryandinstitutions                                                                     662       2056     2526    2679         3319    3396      2659
Total billed revenues                                           12632       13280      1328        n i 3 3    74909    91119    87822       92094  115341   119085
OiiediOn mt,o (%)                                                  32           33        3            39        49        59       69         79      83        86
  Total coiIeCtedravenuell                                      4042         4382       451        10582      36705    53760    60598       72754   95733   102413

Wen181
ieRnCl  y                                                       5926         8081       808       21285       22124    23328    25311       27469   28774    30003
eM""e1                                                          10880       17406      1740        15415      17751    19556    21860       24326   25241    26003
hamicals and materials                                          2082          1889      188         5417       5463     5526    5663         5873    6063      6319
epam 8 malntensnce                                                                                   671       2207     3224    4571         6102    6612      7128
1anagamentfees                                                                                      1679       3712     7866    8216         9103    9103      9103
e ~ m n c epayments                                                                                      0     5277     3675     1972        2175    2353
ontingsnael and Mhei wsh ex~enses                                                                   6000       6060     6121    6752         7630    8166      8540
 Total = a h Operating expenses                                 18888       27376     2737         51467      62613    69296   74177        82679   86332    87196
epreciabon                                                      4700         47w        470        4700        5956     6693    12010       14780    16306   16542
iwvlsion for bad debl                                                0       5452       632        16551      38204    37359   27225        19340    19606   16672
Tobl operating expenses                                         23588       40529     4040        72718      106772   115547   113412      115779  122248   120410
IA debt Interestand financiaicharges(at 1.50%)                                                         13       214       652    1095        1454     1795     1927
!ss: capdaiized amount                                                                                -13      .214      -652   -1095       -1454
 Net interest on IDA debt                                                                                0         0        0          0        0     1795     1927
IB loan inteiestand finanaai chargesto the Govt. (at 4.85%)                                              0      106     1596    3511         5425     6383     6383
itemstsubsidyhomGO*. 10 SWSC                                                                             0       73     1102    2425         3747    4409      4409
18 rubloaninterestand finanaiaichargesto SWSC (at 1.50%                                                  0        33      494    1086        1678     1674     1974
ess: caplalized amount                                                                                   0       -33     494    -1086       -1678
 Net intereston EIB subloanto SWSC                                                                       0         0        0          0        0     1674     1974
  Net incorm before operational subsidy                        -10957       -27249    Z712        45585      -31883   -24428   -25590      -24885   -10816    -5227
ipeiauonaisubsidy                                                                                 44WO        20000     8000     5000
 Ne1income atter operational subsidy                           -10957                 .2712        -1585     -11863   .la28    -20590      -24885   -10876    -5227


U C E SHEETS
.***ts
Irossa m ~ n t recelvable
                 s                                               5157        14054     2281        39370      77573   114932   142157      161497   181105   197777
BSS. Prwisionfar bad debt                                                     9452     1677        33330      71533   106892   136117      155457  175065    191737
let acmullll iecewable                                           5157         5602      601         6040       6040     6040     6040        6040     6040     6040
,ventodes                                                         550         1448      144         3044       3845     4375     5132        5968     6336     6723
nhercunem ass-                                                                                                          13669   21291       31793    50300   61393
 Total w m n t assets                                            5707        7048       748         9084       9885    24064    32463       43821    62577   74150
iioss fued mets                                                198306       198306    19830      198293      281313   395039   496588      591910  603645   603545
eu: Accumuiateddepfsaetion                                      39661       44361     4906         53761      59716    68609    60619       95380   111687   128230
 Netfwed assets                                                158845       153945    14924      144533      221596   326430   415969      496531  491958   475416
  TOM asseta                                                   164352       160993    15673      153617      231481   350514   448432      540352  554635   549572

iabilitier and equity
m m s payabie                                                   10528        11370     1228         6578      10436     11549   12363       13760    14369    14533
hhei shoit term payabies                                        9451          630        MI         1136       1381      1529    1637        1824     1905     1924
 Total w m n t liabilities                                      18979       12000      1288         9713      11817     13078   13999       15Mu     16293    16457
IA deM (iodudmg wplaiized interest)                                                                 2149      27453    61426    87696      110926   128434   129434
18wbioan (includingcaplalinedinterest)                                                                   0    13193     53189   93736      134896   134896   134696
 Total lirbiiitiis                                              18979       12000      1288        11354      40671   127612   195431      201420  279023   279786
iEF grant                                                                                                0     8537     34149   59762       85374    85374    85374
:apiMland -Sews                                                145373       159950    16205      182053      227927   256775   281912      306910   313671   313671
!etainadeamlngs                                                      0      -10957    -3820       -38206     -39791    -51654  -68062      -88672  -113357  -124033
:urrentyear profltlioss                                        -10957       -27249    -2712        -1585     -11863    -18428  -20590      -24685   -10676    -5227
  Total equity                                                 145373       148593    14394      142262      176273   188692   193239      193552   189638   1 W 1 2
  Totd iiabilitxs and equity                                   104352       160993    15673      153811      231481   350541   Ad8L12      540352   554635   UQW2


OURCES AND APPLlCATlONS OF FUNDS
O Y m .
let income(More subsidy. w m t fees, lev pmta,8 intereJt'                                         43893      -22660    -12235  -14304      -11952     2575     5803
dd: Depreciation                                                                                    4700       5956     8863    12010       14780    16306    16542
dd: Provisionfor bad debt                                                                          16551      38204     37356   27225       19340    19606    16672
 Net intamal generation                                                                           .22042      21499    34018    24931       22148    38491    39017
lniendmgof IDA Credl                                                                                1679      24724    33060    25029       21710    17508
I A iDC capdli~tion(add-back to subloan)                                                               13       365       241     147          BB
;EF gam                                                                                                 0      6537    25812    25612       25812
lnlsndingof EIB loan                                                                                    0     13161    39462    39482       39482
iB IDC capitalizalion(add-backto subloan)                                                               0        33       494    1086        1678

iwemmnt contributionfor:
 -.MWWPlow1cwnterpart
            low1counterpanRnanung(ind. taxes 8 duties)                                                  0      6325     9990     6860        4995
   iWEMP                    Rnanclng(indudmgtaxes 8 d a m                                               0     32199     14080   14080       14060
 .imereslsubsidyOn
 - epsmional           EIB loan                                                                                  73     1102     2425        3747     4409
               subsidy                                                                            44030       20000     8000     5000
 .SWWa"ce     payments                                                                                  0      5277     3675     1972        2175     2353
 - slMlsmon1of pastaneamto eiedtickysuppler
  T o l l gmmment contribution                                                                    44000       05874    36848    30137       24998     6762
  T a l sour-                                                                                     no49       m i 9 3  imnz     1a.m        135893    w 6 i    39017

ipplkations
lWWP project investments(tnciudmgtaxes 8 dutlea)                                                        0     29337    35204    23470       17602    11735
NEMP projieaanveRments (mdudtngtaxes 8 duties)                                                          0     53897    79174    79174       79174
I C WpMliLBtion (IDAand EIB)                                                                           13       398       734    1233        1744
iterest payment by Go% an EiB loan                                                                      0        73     1102     2425        3747     4409
laoagemnt leer                                                                                      1679       3712     7866     6219        9103     9103     9103
evennce payments                                                                                        0      5277     3675     1972        2175
'tintipal repaymentson IDA and EIB ioans
:hangerio woking wpMI                                                                             21320       36900    36628    27061       18591    19269    16895
:hang- in cashand bank                                                                                 38     4598      5388     2970        3557    16245    13020
ota1appiiotion.                                                                                   nars       13193    iw-12    146424 i35692.9805    62761    39017
                                                                                                           - 52 -

                                               -
                                        Annex 5, Table 6:AFFORDABILITY IMPACTS

                                                  Unit       2004     2005    2006  2007 2008  2009   2010


Durres
monthlywater consumption at 70 lpcd                m3         9.5       9.5    9.5   9.5  9.5    9.5   9.5
less: free consumptionat 20 lpcd                   m3         2.7       2.7    2.7   2.7  2.7    2.7   2.7
chargeable water consumption                       m3         6.8       6.8    6.8   6.8  6.8    6.8   6.8
average combined water & wastewater tariff       leWm3       57.4     77.9    90.4   105  128   136    128
monthly combined water &wastewater bill            lek        390      530    615    714  870   925    870
average household affordability limit              lek       1000     1030    1061  1093 1126   1159  1194



Lezha
monthlywater consumption at 70 lpcd                m3         9.7       9.7    9.7   9.7  9.7    9.7   9.7
less: free consumptionat 20 lpcd                   m3         2.8       2.8    2.8   2.8  2.8    2.8   2.8
chargeable water consumption                       m3         6.9       6.9    6.9   6.9  6.9    6.9   6.9
average combined water &wastewater tariff        leWm3         49      70.2     88  95.8 117.6  140    161
monthlycombined water &wastewater bill             lek        338      484     607   661  811   966   1111
average household affordability limit              lek       1000     1030    1061  1093 1126   1159  1194



Saranda
monthly water consumption at 70 lpcd               m3         9.3       9.3    9.3   9.3  9.3    9.3   9.3
less: free consumptionat 20 lpcd                   m3         2.6       2.6    2.6   2.6  2.6    2.6'  2.6
chargeable water consumption                       m3         6.7       6.7    6.7   6.7  6.7    6.7   6.7
average combined water &wastewater tariff        leWm3       48.8      54.8     60  70.5  80.3  81.4
monthly combined water & wastewater bill           lek        327       367    402   472  538   545'   596891
average householdaffordability limit               lek       1000     1030    1061  1093 1126   1159  1194




                                                                  - 53 -

                             Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
             ALBANIA: Integrated Water and Ecosystems Management Project

Procurement

Procurement o f goods and works financed by the project, including co-financed contracts, will be done in
accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Procurement under the IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (issued in
January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). Consulting
services, technical assistance and training financed by the project will be procured in accordance with the
Guidelines - Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, issued inJanuary 1997,
revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002.

The components of the proposed Project, their estimated cost and procurement methods are summarized in
Table A o f this annex. The procurement methods are presented inTable B o f this annex. Procurement o f
major contracts will be subject to prior review. Table B1summarizes the capacity of the executive agency
for this project, (MOTAT) the Ministry o f Territorial Adjustment and Tourism in procurement, and the
proposed arrangements for procurement and monitoring. Project coordination and management including
procurement will be handled by the existing World Bank Project PIU (created under a previous
IDA-supported project). The PIU was created specifically to implement IDA-financed projects and has
already established a track record in its implementation o f these projects. Inaddtion to the current project,
the PIU i s implementing the IDA-financed Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project and the Municipal
Water and Wastewater Project. Prior to these projects, the PIU implementedthe IDA-funded Durres Water
Supply Rehabilitation Project. The PIUreports to the MOF and the MOTAT.

 Procurementmethods (Table A)

The project includes procurement of civil works, goods, and consultant services. A detailed procurement
planhas beenprepared and included inthe Project Implementation Plan (PIP).

Procurement of Works. Civil works contracts including the supply and installation o f water treatment
equipment estimated to cost US$500,000 equivalent or more will be procured by International Competitive
Bidding(ICB) based on the Bank Standard Smaller Civil Works Document, with added warranty clauses
for the equipment. Contracts estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may be procured
under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures [ with the specific conditions added to ensure
compliance with World Bank Guidelines, as described in Schedule 3, Section IPart C.l (b) o f the Draft
Grant Agreement]. Other smaller contracts, estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent, will be
procured under Minor Works (MW)procedures.

Procurement of Goods. Goods, including equipment, estimated to cost over US$75,000 equivalent, will
be procured by ICB in accordance with the Bank Standard Goods Procurement Documents. International
Shopping (IS) procedures may be used for readily available goods o f standard specifications estimated to
cost less than US$75,000 equivalent per contract. IS procedure requires quotations from at least three (3)
suppliers from two different countries. Goods, including office supplies, estimated to cost less than US$50
,000 equivalent per contract may be procured using National Shopping procedure, also requiring three or
more quotations.




                                                   - 5 4 -

 Selection Procedures for Consulting Services.              Selection o f Consulting Firms for services including
 engineering and protected area management plan elaboration, will be done through QCBS. Selection o f
 Consulting Firms for services including the monitoring o f the biodiversity inthe Managed Reserve and the
 coastal environment, will be done through CQ. Consultant services for technical assistance, including
 communication campaign and replication or dissemination services, estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO
 equivalent, will be contracted out under CQ procedures. Auditing or similar standard services, estimated to
 cost less than US$100,000 equivalent, may be procured through CQ procedures. Individual Consultants
 for Project management support services will be selected in accordance with the procedures set up in
  Section V, 5.1 to 5.4., o fthe Guidelines.

                             Table A: Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements
                                              (US$ million equivalent)




I                                      I     (3.66)                                   (0.05)           (0.00)        (3.86)
 2. Goods                                     0.00                   0.13              0.13              2.22          2.48
                                             (0.00)                 (0.10)            (0.10)           (0.00)        (0.20)
 3. Services                                  0.00                   0.00              1.20              0.36          1.56
                                              (0.00)                (0.00)            (0.68)            (0.00)        (0.68)
 4. Land                                      0.00                   0.00              0.00              0.68          0.68
                                              (0.00)                (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)
r.
 5.lncrementai Operating                                             0.00              0.10              0.00          0.10
/Costs                                 I                      I
                                              (0.00)
                                              O.OO                  (0.00)            (0.08)            (0.00)        (0.08)
    Training                           I                      I      0.00              0.06              0.00          0.06
                                              (0.00)
                                              O.OO                  (0.00)            (0.05)            (0.00)        (0.05)
    Total                                     11.55                  0.30              1.55              6.60         20.00
                                             (3.66)                 (0.25)            (0.96)            (0.00)        (4.87)

   I.'
     Figures inparentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies.

  2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services o f
     contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
     costs related to (i)
                        managingthe project, and (ii)re-lending project funds to local government units.
  31 Co-financiers have agreed that World Bank guidelines will apply to the procurement of co-financed contracts.




                                                          - 55 -

                             Table A I: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                             (US$ million equivalent)


                                                     Selection Method

   ConsultantServices       QCBS        QBS                                                  Total
 ExpenditureCatenow- -                           SFB       LCS       CQ     Other    N.B.F.

A. Firms                      1.26     0.00     0.00       0.00    0.21     0.00     0.00    I.47
                             (0.58)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)  (0.15)   (0.00)    (0.00) (0.73)
B. Individuals                0.00     0.00     0.00       0.00    0.00     0.15     0.00    0.15
                             (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00) (0.00)

                    Total     1.26     0.00     0.00       0.00    0.21     0.15     0.00    1.62
                             (0.58)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)  (0.15)   (0.00)    (0.00) (0.73)


I / Total services cost includestraining.




                                                      - 56 -

Prior review thresholds (Table B)


Contracts o f a significant amount wholly or partially financed by IDA will be prior reviewed, although the
PIU has practical experience about the World Bank procurement. Incidentally, from a procurement angle,
the country is rated as high risk.in the CPAR, and the project is rated high risk (See Table B1: Capacity
Assessment). All contracts awarded through ICB will be subject to prior review by the Bank. For works,
the first two NCB and the first two minor works packages will be subject to prior review. For goods, the
first two IS packages will be subject to prior review. With respect to services, Bank prior review will be
required o f all terms o f reference, irrespective o f the contract value. For each contract with a consulting
firm estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO or more, the technical evaluation report will be submitted to the Bank
for its review prior to the opening o f the priced proposals. For contracts with individual consultants
costing US$50,000 or more the qualifications, experience, terms o f reference and terms o f employment
shall be fumished to the Bank for review prior to contract signature. All other contracts will be subject to
ex-post review by the Bank ina ratio o f one infive.

                   Table B: Thresholds for ProcurementMethodsand Prior Review'




 3. Services(local and                       --                         QCBS                       (0.58) 1.26
 foreign firms)                         up to 100                         CQ                        (0.10) 0.21
                                       less than 50                       IC
 4. Miscellaneous
 5. Miscellaneous
 6. Miscellaneous

                  Total value of contracts subject to prior review:        US$13.4 million
                           Overall ProcurementRiskAssessment: High
       Frequency of procurement supervision missionsproposed:              One every twelve months
                                                                           (includes special procurement supervision for
                                                                           post-review/audits)
3/ Borrower has confirmed that Procurement of Works under NCB proceduresshall be launched using IDA ' s
ECA Regional Sample BiddingDocuments.




                                                       - 57 -

Table B1: Capacity of the ImplementingAgency in Procurementand Technical AssistanceRequirements
The PIU, under the Ministry o f Territorial Adjustment and Tourism, was first established in 1994 unde
the Dunes Water Supply Rehabilitation Project, and continued (1999) in its official capacity for tht
on-going Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project, and in 2001 the ongoing Municipal Water an(
Wastewater Project was added.         The above mentioned PIU will be in charge also for the overal
coordination o f this GEF project. The PIU has one full time procurement and contract coordination office
under the supervision o f the PIU Director and one additional technical staff They will be assisted b!
international technical and financial auditors. This PIU has gained international experience with the B a d
procurement procedures through the above mentioned Bank financed operations.                The overall risl
assessment is rated as high risk although the PIU has been working in the on going projects, taking intc
account the overall risky environment for procurement in the country. It is recommended that all majo
contracts should be prior reviewed.
The first procurement capacity assessment o fthe PIUwas carried out by the Bank for the Water Supply
UrgentRehabilitationProject inOctober 1999. A second capacity assessment o f the PIUwas carried out ir
July 2001 for the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project.
Are the bidding documentsfor theprocurement actionsfor thefirst year ready by negotiations:No
TrainingInformationandDevelopmentonProcurement
Estimated Date of Project Launch Workshop: May 2004
Date ofpublication of General Procurement Notice: ApriVMay 2004
Indicate there isprocurement subject to mandatoly SPN in Development Business: Yes
         if
Domestic Preference for Goods: N.A.
Domestic Preference for Works: Yes
ketroactive Financinp: No                             Advance Procurement: No
          briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: The PIU will have the responsibility for a1
              activities and for installation and management o f the procurement monitoring system for it
                        described above. All relevant procurement documentation will be prior reviewedb;
                             staff. Procurement information will be collected and recorded by PIU an1
                                                                               would include (a) revised cos
                                                                       actions including advertising, bidding
                                                                                     with aggregate limits  01
                                                                                   the Project, since there ar

Co-financing. Explain briefly theProcurement arrangementsunder eo-financing: The procurement
of the co-financed components will be carried out accordingto the Bank guidelines.
ProcurementStaffing:
All procurement will be carried out by the Water PIU. The Ministryo f Environment will be consulted         01
all procurement to be carried out under the project components for Environmental Management ani
Monitoring and Public Consultation andReplication, and will have a member o fthe evaluation committee
for this type o f procurement (maximum number o f members is five). The same applies to the K W
Board for all procurement relatedto the KVMA.
Explain briefly the expected role of theField Office in Procurement:
No procurement service support is currently envisioned from the Resident Mission, except help from a
assistant.


"Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
 Procurement" andcontactthe Regional ProcurementAdviser for guidance.




                                                     - 58 -

             Annex 6(B):Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements
               ALBANIA: Integrated Water and Ecosystems Management Project

Financial Management
1. Summary ofthe FinancialManagement Assessment

The project's financial management arrangements are acceptable to the Bank.

Country Issues

The latest Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) from May 2002                   confirms that
improvement is requiredinthe management o fpublic expenditures, includingcash management inTreasury
and better internal control throughout the public sector. Absence o f a solid legal basis for internal audit
further hampers the solidness ofthe internal control. Thus, PIUhas developed policies andprocedures that
operate in addition to those o f the current public expenditure management framework to minimize project
financial management risks.

Strengthsand Weaknesses

The significant strengths that provide a basis o f reliance on the project financial management system
include: (i)the experience o f PIU and its accountant of implementing Bank-financed projects and satisfying
Bank financial management requirements; and (ii)     the unqualified audit reports and positive management
letters issued by PIU's project auditors.

There are no significant weaknesses o fthe project financial management system.

Implementing Entity

The Water PIU was established in 1994. The PIU was created specifically to implement Bank-financed
projects and has already established a successfd track record in its implementation o f these projects. In
addition to this new GEFEIB Project, it is implementing the IDA financed Water Supply Urgent
Rehabilitation Project and Municipal Water and Wastewater Project. Before these projects the PIU
implemented the IDA funded D u e s Water Supply Project. The Water PIU reports to the Ministry o f
Finance and to the Ministry o f Territorial Adjustment and Tourism.

All financial management activities will be carriedout bythe PIU.

Funds Flow

Project funds will flow from: (i) Bank, either via a single Special Account which will be replenished on
                                  the
the basis of SOEs or by direct payment on the basis o f direct payment withdrawal applications; or (ii) the
Government, via the Treasury at the Ministry of Finance (MOF) on the basis o f payment requests approved
bythe Treasury Department o fthe MOF directly to the local supplier for VAT andother taxes.

StafJig

PIUstaffing includes one accountant with considerable experience o f implementing Bank-financed projects.
Terms o f Reference for the PIU with detailed descriptions o f duties and staffing have been finalized. The



                                                    - 59 -

PIU has demonstrated that it i s hlly capable o f fulfilling the accounting and reporting needs o f the projects
it has been implementing earlier.

AccountingPolicies and Procedures

The accounting books and records are maintained on a cash basis and project financial statements are
presented in United States dollars and the local currency Lek. PIU has instituted a set o f appropriate
accounting procedures and internal controls including authorization and segregation o f duties as far as
possible.

The policies and procedures are further elaborated inthe Financial Management Manual.

2. Audit Arrangements

Internal Audit

PIUhas no intemalaudit function and none is considered necessarygiven the size o fthe organization.

ExternalAudit

No significant issueshave arisen inthe audits o fprevious Bank-financed projects implemented by PIU.

PIU's previous and current auditing arrangements andaudit findings are satisfactory to the Bank and it has
thus been agreed that similar audit arrangements will be adopted for the GEF/EIB Project, to include the
GEF/EIB Project's project financial statements, SOEs and Special Account. The auditor will be appointed
by the Ministry o f Finance as part o f an overall agreement for the audit o f the non-revenue earning
Bank-financed portfolio in Albania. Specific terms o f reference i s used for the projects covered by this
agreement. Despite the MOF's arrangements, the PIU is responsible for delivering to the Bank,within six
months o f the closing o f each fiscal year, the audited financial statements.

The annual cost o fthe audits will be coveredbythe Government o fAlbania.

Inadditionthe country's supreme audit institution, performs adhoc externalaudits o fthe PIU.

Reporting and Monitoring

PIUproduces all financial reports and SOEs for the Bank with the project accounting software, Alpha. PIU
has demonstrated in its previous projects that it is able to report satisfactorily on project expenditures with
this system.

Project management-oriented FinancialMonitoring Reports (FMRs) will be used for project monitoring
and supervision and the indicative formats o fthese are included inthe PIUFinancialManagement Manual.
PIUwill produce a full set o f FMRsevery three months throughout the life o fthe project. Draft formats o f
these FMRswere agreed duringnegotiations.




                                                      - 60 -

Information Systems

The accounting system for the GEFEIB Project has been fully computerized, adopting a locally developed
software that is able to produce the reports required by the Bank (FMRs). The system has been tailored to
the project documents utilizing the work made for the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project.

Based on the financial management system o f the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project, the PIU has
prepared a comprehensive Financial Management Manual for the project. The'Manual sets out the financial
management and internal controls policies and procedures and is intended to guide staff and minimize the
risk o f errors and omissions, as well as delays in transactions, recording and reporting. These written
standards also clarify responsibilities, including level of authority, clear control over assets, cash and bank
accounts and timely and accurate financial reporting. Inaddition to the Financial Management Manual, the
PIU will have to follow the procedures set out in the Project Implementation Manual. The accounting for
the project i s cash basis.

Specific procedures for the part o fthe project financed by EIBwill be included through consultations with
the relevant EIB staff,

3. DisbursementArrangements

Bank funds will be disbursed under the Bank's transactional procedures including SOEs and direct
payments. Supporting documentation for SOEs, including completion reports and certificates, will be
retained by the Borrower and made available to the Bank during project supervision. Disbursements for
expenditures above the SOE thresholds will be made against presentation o f full documentation relating to
those expenditures. There is no planto move to periodic disbursements.

As soon as the project becomes effective the PIUwill open andmanage a Special Account specifically for
this project, inthe Bank o fAlbania to which the GEF hndswillbe transferred. Since the BankofAlbania
does not execute commercial transactions with thirdparties, the PIUwill transfer the funds from the
Special Account to a second-level account opened by the project ina commercial bank acceptable to the
Bank from which it pays eligible expensesrelatedto the project. Counterpart funds are transferred, inLek,
to a specific bank account. Withdrawal applications for the replenishments o fthe SA will be sent to the
Bank at least every three months, or when the balance o fthe SA is equal to about half o f the initial deposit
or the authorized allocation, whichever comes first.

SupervisionPlan

Duringproject implementation, the Bank will supervise the project's financial management arrangements in
two mainways: (i) the project's quarterly financial management reports as well as the project's
                     review
annual audited financial statements and auditor's management letter; and (ii)   duringthe Bank's supervision
missions, review the project's financial management and disbursement arrangements (including a review o f
a sample o f SOEs and movements on the Special Account) to ensure compliance withthe Bank`s minimum
requirements. As required, a Bank-accredited Financial Management Specialist will assist inthe
supervisionprocess.




                                                     - 61 -

 Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)

                                  Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds



 Goods                                                    0.20           100% o f foreign expenditures and 100%
                                                                             o f local expenditures (ex. factory
                                                                          cost) and 50% o f local expenditures for
I                                             I                         I       other items procured locallv      I
~
 Works                                                    3.86                              85%
 Services                                                 0.68                              85%
 Incremental Operating Costs                              0.08                              75%
 Training                                                 0.05                             100%

 Total ProjectCosts with Bank                             4.87
 Financing

 Total                                                    4.87



 Use of statements of expenditures(SOEs):

 Project funds will be initially disbursed under the Bank's established procedures, including SOEs.
 Disbursements made on the basis o f SOEs will be as follows for each expenditure category: (a) goods
 under contracts costing less than US$lOO,OOO each; (b) works under contracts costing less than
 US$500,000 each; (c) services under contracts less than US$lOO,OOO each for consulting firms, and less
 than US$50,000 each for individualconsultants; and (d) recurrent costs, under such terms and conditions
 as the Bank shall specify. Supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained by the Borrower, be made
 available to the Bank during project supervision, and be audited annually by independent auditors
 acceptable to the Bank. Disbursements for expenditures above these thresholds will be made against
 presentation o f full documentationrelating to those expenditures.

 The Operator, as part o f the services to be provided under the management contract, will consolidate
 project information for all components and prepare quarterly PMRs including financial report, project
 progress report and procurement management report, for project monitoring and reporting for submission
 to the Bank through the CMU. The reporting system would support the application o f the PMR-based
 disbursements, to be made at the mutualagreement o f the Government andthe Bank.

  Special account:
 To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, a Special Account (SA) will be established inthe
 National Bank to be maintained and operated by the PIU under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
 Bank.

 The IDAwould, upon request, make authorized allocation o f US$0.5 million into the SA. Applications for
 the replenishment o fthe SA would be submitted on a monthly basis, or when about 20 percent o fthe initial
 deposit has been used, whichever comes first. The replenishment applications will be supported by the
 necessary documentation, in accordance with Bank guidelines, including the SA bank statements and a
 reconciliation o f the bank statements to the project's accounting records. The PIU, with the support o f the



                                                      - 62 -

Operator, will be responsible for the appropriate accounting o f project funds provided under the Credit, for
reporting on the use o f these funds, and for ensuring that audits of the financial statements are submitted to
the Bank. Accounting for Special Account transactions and for all other project-related accounts will be
maintained in accordance with the World Bank Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook,
January 1995. The SA would be audited annually by independentauditors acceptable to the Bank.




                                                    - 63 -

                               Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
             ALBANIA: Integrated Water and Ecosystems Management Project




IFirst Bank mission (identification)            I         1011512001             I                        I
 Appraisal mission departure                              1011712003                        09/17/2003
 Negotiations                                             12/03/2003                        11/17/2003

IPlanned Date of Effectiveness                  I         0411812004             I                        I

Prepared by:
Benouniche, Calabrese, Cestti, Christensen, de Soto, Dias, Nadkarni, Ngaine, Purificato, Rohde,
Szymanski


Preparation assistance:
PDFBlock B for US$350,000

Bank staff who worked on the proiect included:
I        Name                                             Soecialitv
 Andreas Rohde, ECSIE                    Team LeaderISanitary Engineer
 Claudio Purificato, ECSIE               Water and Sanitation Engineer
 ArbenBakllmaja, ECSIE                   Consultant
 Takao Ikegami, ECSIE                    Senior Sanitary Engineer
 Manuel Mariiio, ECSIE                   Water and Sanitation Specialist
 Juderica Dias                           Program Assistant
 Rita Cestti, ECSSD                      Environmental Specialist
 Hermine De Soto, ECSSD                  Social Specialist
 Olav Christensen, ECSCS                 Financial Management Specialist
 Junko Funahashi, LEGEC                  Counsel
 Rohit Mehta, LOAGl                      FinanceOfficer
 Salim Benouniche, ECSPS                 Procurement Specialist
 Ahmet Jehani, LEGEC                     Counsel
 Artan Guxho, ECSIE                      Project Officer
 Daniele Calabrese, EXTCD                Communication Associate
 Grazia Atanasio, EXTCD                  Communication Officer
 EdeIjjasz-Vasquez, ENV                  Peer Reviewer, Sr. Environmental Specialist
 Phillip Brylski, ECSSD                  Peer Reviewer, Sr. Biodiversity Specialist
 Paul Mitchel, EXTCD                     Peer Reviewer, Manager
 Maria Teresa R. Lim, ECSIE              Program Assistant
 Susanne Szymanski, ECSIE                Consultant
 KishoreNadkami                          Financial Analyst
 JenniferNgaine                          Program Assistant



                                                  - 64 -

                            Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
           ALBANIA: Integrated Water and Ecosystems Management Project


A. Project Implementation Plan

0  Albania - IntegratedWater and EcosystemManagement Project, Draft Project Implementation Plan -
   July 2003

B. Bank Staff Assessments

0  Project Concept Document - February 2002 (under Albania - Municipal Water and Wastewater
   Project)
0  Project Executive Summary - GEF Council Work Program Submission   - March  2003
0  Aide-Memoire - November 2001, February 2002, May 2002, August 2002, February 2003, May
   2003, July 2003

C. Other

0  Technical Assessment and Final Design for Construction and Management of Constructed Treatment
   Wetlands - Technical Assessment Report (SWS-TEI, October 2002)
0  Technical Assessment and Final Designfor Construction andManagement o f Constructed Treatment
   Wetlands - Technical Review Report (Hydro Ingenieure, July 2003)
0  PAD   - Municipal  Water and Wastewater Project
0  Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
0  Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
0  Government letter on intemational water
0   Government letter committingland for CTWs

*Including electronicfiles




                                                - 65 -

                                     Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                     ALBANIA: Integrated Water and Ecosystems Management Project
                                                      03-Feb-2004
                                                                                                           Differencebetweenexpected
                                                                                                                    and actual
                                                           OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                        disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                              IBRD        IDA                      Cancel. Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO77297     2003 COM WRKS 2                               0.00      15.00                      0.00   16.08        0.20       0.00

PO41442     2003 MUN WATERMlW                             0.00      15.00                      0.00   15.73        0.78       0.00

PO69479     2002 FISHERYDEVT                              0.00       5.60                      0.00     5.02       0.59       0.00

P066260     2002 ROADMAINT                                0.00      17.00                      0.00   26.81        -1.78      -1.78

PO57818     2002 FSAC                                     0.00      15.00                      0.00     8.41       6.44       0.00

PO74905     2002 PWR SECT REHABIRESTRCTG                  0.00      29.90                      0.00   34.83        -0.91      0.00

PO70078     2001 TRADE8 TRANS FACIL IN SE EUR             0.00       8.10                      0.00     1.63        3.71      0.00

PO54736     2001 AG SERVICES                              0.00       9.90                      0.00     8.13        1.12      0.00

PO55383     2001 SOC SERV DEVT .                          0.00      10.00                      0.00   10.51        -0.68      0.00

PO69079     2000 FINSEC IBTA                              0.00       6.50                      0.00     2.46       2.11       0.00

PO66491     2000 WS URG REHAB                             0.00      10.00                      0.00     1.06        1.04       1.12

PO69120     2000 EDUC REF                                 0.00      12.00                      0.00     5.02        2.47      0.00

PO57182     2000 LEGIJUD REF                              0.00       9.00                      0.00     6.20       4.45       3.11

PO69939     2000 PUB ADM REF                              0.00       8.50                      0.00     7.16        8.23       0.05

PO43178     1999 IRRIG8 DRAIN 2                           0.00      24.00                      0.00     0.73       -1.00       0.00

PO51310     1999 MICROCREDIT                              0.00      12.00                      0.00     0.57       -1.39       0.89

PO40818     1998 DURRESPORT                               0.00      16.99                      0.00     2.02        2.10       2.17

PO40975     1998 LANDDEVT                                 0.00      10.00                      0.00     2.36        1.88      -0.27

PO45312     1998 HEALTHRECOVERY                           0.00      17.00                      4.03     8.81       11.78       0.00

PO08271     1996 FORESTRY                                 0.00       8.00                      0.00     0.19        0.75       0.M

                                               Total:    0.00      259.49                      4.03   163.72       35.01       5.93




                                                         - 66 -

                                           ALBANIA
                                      STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                   Heldand Disbursed Portfolio
                                         June 30 - 2003
                                       InMillions USDollars


                                                       Committed                        Disbursed
                                                      IFC                             IFC

FY Approval    Company                          Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998           AAP                              0.00   28.50     0.00    0.00   0.00    13.59   0.00  0.00
2000           NCBank                           0.00    2.00     0.00    0.00   0.00    2.00    0.00  0.00
1999            SEF Eurotech                    0.60    0.00     0.00    0.00   0.60    0.00    0.00  0.00
1999            SEF FEFAD Bank                  0.00    0.98     0.00    0.00   0.00    0.98    0.00  0.00

                      Total Portfolio:          0.60   31.48      0.00   0.00     0.60  16.57    0.00  0.00



                                                   Approvals PendingCommitment

FY Approval    Company                            Loan     Equity     Quasi    Partic
2002           INSIG                               0.00      0.00     0.01     0.00
1998           Patos Marinza                       0.03      0.00     0.00     0.05
2001           Patos Marinza In                    0.01      0.00     0.00     0.00
2002           Savings Bank                        0.00      0.00     0.02     0.00
2003           Vodafone Albania                    0.05      0.00     0.00     0.01

               Total PendingCommitment:            0.09      0.00     0.02     0.06




                                               -67 -

                                             Annex 10: Country at a Glance
                 ALBANIA Integrated Water and Ecosystems Management Project
                                                             Europe 8  Lower-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                             Central  middle-
                                                      Albania    Asia  income       Developmentdiamond'
2002
Population, mid-year (millions)                           3.2    476     2,411                   Life expectancy
GNI percapita (Atlas method. US$)                       1,380   2,160    1,390
                                                                                                       T
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                          4.4   1,030    3,352

Average annual growth, 1996-02
PopulationI%)                                             0.3     0.1      1.o
Laborforce (%)                                            0.7     0.4      1.2      GNI                                 Gross
                                                                                    per                                primacy
Most recentestimate (latestyear available, 1996-02)                                capita                           enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)
Urbanpopulation 1%of totalpopulation)                     44       63       49
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                            74       69       69
Infantmortality (per 1,000live births)                    23       25       30
Childmalnutrition(% of children under5)                   14                11           Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improved water source (% ofpopulation)       97       91       81
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 75+)                        14       3       13
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)       107     102      111               Albania

    Male                                                  107     103      111          .-   Lower-middle-income group
    Female                                                107     101      110

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                 1982   1992     2001    2002

GDP (US$billions)                                                 4.3      4.8
Grossdomestic investmenffGDP                                     27.0     19.7
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                                19.7     18.9
Gross domestic savingslGDP                                        4.6      -4.4 I                                             I
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                                        20.9     12.7                          TT
Current account balance/GDP                                       -6.1     -9.1     Domestic                        investment
Interest paymentdGDP                                              0.2       0.5     savings
Total debffGDP                                                   25.7     27.2
Total debtservicelexports                                 0.9     2.4       3.5
Present value of debffGDP                                        17.9
Present value of debtlexports                                    49.4                              Indebtedness

                                      1982-92 1992-02   2001     2002  2002-06
(averageannualarowfh)                                                              1    -Albania
GDP                                                6.2    6.8     4.7       5.0                                               I
GDP percapita                                      5.9    5.8      3.7      4.0         -Lower-middle-incomegroup


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                  1982   1992    2001     2002     I Growth of investmentand GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                                                                     c
                                                                                    0
Agriculture                                                      34.2     33.3      40
                                                                                    ':
Industry                                                         23.5     23.5
    Manufacturing                                                13.2     12.8
Services                                                         42.3     43.2
                                                                                    -20
Privateconsumption                                               86.2     93.5     401
Generalgovernmentconsumption                                       9.2     10.9                 -GDI          ' O I G D P
Importsof goods and services

                                                                                                                              I
                                              1982-92 1992-02    2001     2002      Growth of exports and imports(Oh)
(average annualgrowih)                                                             loo
Agriculture                                               1.2      1.4      2.0        T


Industry                                                 11.1     10.7      8.0
    Manufacturing                                         9.6      6.5      7.0     50

Services                                                  8.2      8.9     19.9
                                                                                     0
Privateconsumption                                        7.5      9.5     10.9
Generalgovernmentconsumption                              6.1     15.7     -3.2
Gross domestic investment                                14.6     11.9     -0.1
Importsof goods and services                             20.5    21.1      11.3




                                                             - 68 -

                                                                                                            Albania

 PRICES and GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                                                                                                      I
                                          1982  1992  2001   2002      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
 (% change)
Consumer prices                                226.0    3.1    5.4    30

 ImplicitGDP deflator                                   3.9    5.8    20

 Government finance                                                   10
 (% of GDP, includescurrent grants)                                    0
 Current revenue                                       22.2  22.7                97   98      99      w      01      0
 Currentbudget balance                                 -1.2   -0.1              -GDP      deflator +CPI
 Overallsurplusideficit                                -8.2   -6.3


 TRADE
                                          1982  1992  2001   2002
 (US$ millions)                                                     /2000,
                                                                       Exportand import levels(US$ mill.)             I
Total exports (fob)                       360    70    305    330                                                     I
  Agriculture                                     14    28     40
  Mineralproducts                                 16     6       9    1.500

  Manufactures                                         215    206
Total imports(cifl                        438   524   1,332  1,485    1.000

  Food                                          224    256    286       500
  Fueland energy                                  35    184   206
  Capitalgoods                                   103   602    672         0                                           I
                                                                               96   97   98     99     00   01
 Export price index (1995=100)                                      I
 Importpriceindex (1995=100)                                                        m ~xports        mImports      O2
 Terms of trade (1995=1W)

 BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                          1982  1992   2001  2002     1 Currentaccount
 (US$ millions)                                                                         balanceto GDP (%)

 Exportsof goodsand services               374    a2    840   915
 Imports of goodsand services             460    628  1,791  2.080
 Resourcebalance                           -87  -547   -951 -1,165

 Net income                                 13   -29    i48    130
 Netcurrenttransfers                             148    543   597

 Current account balance                   -67  -428   -260  -438

 Financingitems (net)                       54   485    395    553
 Changes in net reserves                    13   -57   -135  -115

 Memo:
 Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)                  737    866
 Conversion rate (DEC,local/US$)                75.0  143.5  140.2


 EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                          1982  1992   2001  2002
 (US$ millions)                                                         :omposition of 2002 debt (US$ mlll.)
 Total debt outstanding and disbursed            633  1,094  1,312
   IBRD                                            0      0      0                    F 35 G: 3'
   IDA                                             2    366    476

 Totaldebt service                                 2     37     58
   IBRD                                            0      0      0
   IDA                                             0      3      3

 Compositionof net resourceflows
   Officialgrants                                334    137    121
   Officialcreditors                              49     94    130
   Privatecreditors                                3     4       1
   Foreigndirectinvestment                        20    207    135
   Portfolioequity                                 0      0      0                             D 105

 World Bank program
   Commitments                                    41     20     88      i IBRD
                                                                          -                              E Bilateral
                                                                                                          -
   Disbursements                                   2     34     79      3 -IDA     D Other multilateral
                                                                                    -                    F Private
                                                                                                          -
   Principal repayments                            0      0      0      > - iMF                          G -Short-term
   Netflows                                        2     34     79
   Interest payments                               0      3      3
   Nettransfers                                    2     32     76


~




                                                    - 69 -

                        Additional Annex 11: Incremental Cost Analysis
             ALBANIA: Integrated Water and Ecosystems Management Project

Project Background

The aim o f this project is to reduce the sewage pollution load from the three cities o f Durres, Saranda,
Lezha in order to protect and improve the environmental conditions o f coastal and marine habitats. The
great part of the ecosystems considered by the project have been ranked at international level according
with the Ramsar convention. The project will support an integrated approach to ecosystem management
based on the reduction o f nutrientsthrough the construction o f artificial wetlands for wastewater treatment,
as well as improvedmanagement o f the protected area o f Kune Vain.

Sector Context and Baseline Scenario

Albania's water infrastructure i s inurgent need of improvement, intechnical short term rehabilitation and in
medium and long term technical and managerial improvements.               Water quality could be improved
significantly with a reliable supply o f chemicals. Under existing conditions excessive water losses have
resulted from lack o f maintenance and repair and lack o f metering and operational control. Wastewater
treatment facilities do not exist inAlbania and raw sewage is discharged untreated into sea andrivers.

Several causes for the condition o fAlbania's water sector are:


   0     Lack o f revenues: Tariffs below the true cost o f water and lack o f tariff collection enforcement in
        the last decade have significantly reduced the income of the water supply companies. Water and
         sanitation systems have received virtually no maintenance inthe last ten years.
   0     Over consumption: Flat rates rather than metered consumption resulted in massive water waste
         and also the collapse o f the irrigation system has contributed to a sharp increase in water demand
         inthe last ten years. Ontop o fthis, a massive migrationto urban centers, with illegaltappingand
        no incentive to reduce water consumption, augmented the water sectors problems.
   0     Inadequacy o f the physical infrastructure: Due to the lack o f appropriate materialdequipment and
         insufficient consideration o f the economic aspects inthe design, the existing systems are expensive
        to runand to maintain.

The Govemment o f Albania (GOA) has embarked on a water sector strategy, that involves a two-tier
approach focusing in.the short term on urgent repairs to the systems and on medium term program to
support sector reforms. Withinthis medium term program, the World Bank recently approved a US$ 21.9
million Municipal Water and Wastewater Project aiming at improving the water and sanitation services in
Albania.

Albania is characterized by the presence o f very relevant coastal and marine ecosystems (lagoons,
hygrophilous forests, Posidonia meadows) where the biodiversity value is menaced by the presence o f
urban settlements in the surroundings and the associated environmental impacts (in particular the
eutrophication o f water due to the existing raw sewage outfalls).     The coastal lagoon system of Albania
constitutes one o f the most important wetlands o f the Mediterranean Region. Inparticular endangered and
endemic species as the Pygmy cormorant (Phalacrocorax pygmaeus), the Mouse-ear bat (Myotis miotis)
and the Otter (Lutra lutra) live inthese habitats and should be considered as flag species.




                                                      - 70 -

Water pollution mainly associated with the flow o f untreated sewage is one o f most relevant threats o f these
ecosystems which has considerably deteriorated the natural inland ecosystems and the biological
productivity o f the coastal areas. Albania lacks o f any wastewater treatment facilities and existing raw
sewage outfalls are located either directly on the seacoast, on the bank o f coastal rivers or on drainage
ditches that after a short distance discharge directly into globally significant tidal marshlands andor the
sea. This has the effect o f upsetting the biological balance and also increases the subsequent eutrophication
phenomena o f wetlands.      It is also known that coastal water pollution with particular reference to the
untreated waste waters heavily affects Posidonia oceanica meadows and the related communities (e.g. the
endangered species Pinna nobilis).

The Government i s committed to biodiversity conservation and the water sector is one o f the priorities at
the national level in line with the Strategic Principles o f the Albanian Biodiversity Strategy. However,
urban population i s growing rapidly which increases pressure on the quality o f water ecosystems (sea,
wetlands). The Government o f Albania has very limited financial resources to create wastewater treatment
facilities.

As a consequence ofthe current course o f action, coastal areas will likely continue to be under the growing
pollution effects o f uncontrolled and increasedurbanwastewater which can be described as follows:

    e     endangered marine ecosystems and habitats, in medium and infralittoral level (particularly
          Shengjini-Lezha area, Porto Romano bay and Saranda bay);
    e     endangered coastal ecosystems: sand dunes, delta rivers (particularly Drini-Lezha), alluvial and
          wet forests, lagoons ( Kune and Vaini) and coastal lakes (Kenalla);
    e     risks and adverse impacts on biodiversity, and some o f the major adverse impacts have been:
          habitat loss and fragmentation, damage (Porto Romano bay, Shentziini and Saranda bay) and
          degradation (Kenalla lake) o f habitats and ecosystems, loss o f species or the threat o f their
          extinction etc.;
    e     reduction of the Posidonia oceanica meadows populations, particularly in the Shengjini- Lezha
          and Saranda-Ksamili area, but also inthe Porto Romano and Lalzi bay;
    0     development of some algae populations (Ulva and Enteromorpha), particularly in Saranda bay,
          Shengjini bay and Porto Romano bay;
    e     observation of some eutrophication inthe Saranda bay, Shengjini area and Kenalla lake;
    e     probability to affect reproduction of the fish species (e.g. sea bass) inthe marine ecosystems of
          Shengjini bay (particularly northem part-Rana e hedhun), inPorto Romano and Lalzibay and near
          the Saranda and Ksamili bay, etc.
    e     negative consequences on the eco-tourism development;
    e     delay in the implementation o f the Coastal Zone Integrated Management and of the economic
          development; and
    e     difficulties in implementing institutional strengthening measures in order to implement the
          sustainability and biodiversity maintenance policies.

Regional GEF projects have focused part of their activities on the conservation o f biodiversity o f Albanian
wetlands and lagoons, like in the case of the Conservation of Wetland and Coastal Ecosystems in the
Mediterranean Region Project (Karaburun, Orikumi, and Narta habitats) and the Lake Ohrid Conservation
Project. Taking into consideration the international relevance o f these habitats, other GEF projects have
been planned on other Albanian wetlands as on the lake Prespa, and on the Karavasta lagoon. Very few
activities have been planned for the Albanian marine habitats. This i s probably associated with to the
scarcity o f data and information on these areas, although live endangered species as the Monk seal



                                                      - 71 -

(Monachus monachus) and the Sea turtle (Caretta caretta) do occur inthese areas.

Global Environmental Objective

Based on the present economic situation and the lack o f active environmental pressure groups, it i s likely
that biodiversity conservation will not be sufficiently promoted in the near hture. This project promotes
and expands the use o f CTWs in areas where existing pollution loads are threatening natural wetland
systems critical for biodiversity. The coastal cities o f Durres, Lezha, Saranda do not have any wastewater
treatment facilities, as such the project aims to capture global benefits by reducing land-based pollution
from the three cities and protect and restore endangered coastal and marine habitats by introducing low cost
ecologically based wastewater treatment.

The global objective o f the GEF altemative is to improve the health and habitat conditions o f globally
significant marine and coastal ecosystems along the coastline o f Albania in an integrated manner by
significantly reducing pollution from uncontrolled municipal wastewater generated by human settlements o f
the three coastal cities o f Durres, Lezha and Saranda that are discharging into international waters and
improvingthe management o fthe tidal marshlando f Kune Vain (near Lezha).

In order to achieve its objectives the GEF altemative will implement four main activities: (i)       Sewage
pollution reduction through construction o f low cost environmentally-friendly waste water treatment
facilities (CTW); (ii)environmental management and monitoring through improved monitoring o f water
quality and biodiversity indicators and institutional strengthening o f the Kune Vain protected area
management administration; (iii)  public awareness and replication and(iv) project management, monitoring
and evaluation.

The CTW provides a noticeable reduction o f the pollution loads into the receiving water bodies, which
represents the major contribution to the protection and restoring actions inthe endangered coastal zone and
marine habitats.     According the analytical calculation, the following Removal Efficiency (RE%) are
expected BOD 70%, and fecal coliform removal o f 95%, studies show the CTW are effective at removing
nutrients such as nitrogen(Re=50%) and phosphorous (Re=25%). Tab. l/a and libprovides an estimation
on the quality o f waste water in case o f implementation o f the constructed wetlands according with the
Project Preliminary Design. Tab. l/a shows the Removal Efficiency which is the ratio o f the out-let
concentration versus the in-let concentration o f the wastewater pollutant.*) o f the CTW according to the
 "jiully natural" wastewater treatment system @e., oxidation ponds interconnected with a Free Water
Surface system).     Whereas Tab. lib shows the Removal Efficiency (RE%) 20.3/a according             CTW
wastewater treatment option with "mechanical aerated ponds " (i.e., aerated ponds interconnected with a
Free Water Surface system).

           Table l/a-Ouality o f wastewater inDurres, Lezha, Saranda after project intervention on Proiect
                          CTW basic scheme-fullv natural solution

              Main Parameter        Assumed Sewage       Expected median     Expected median
                                  Inlet concentration         of RE%        Outlet concentration
                                         (k4                                       W   U
            BOD                         250-200                 70%                75-60
           N-total                       60-50                  50%                30-25




                                                    - 72 -

                Parameter          Assumed Sewage       Expected median      Expected median
                                  Inlet concentration        OfRE%          Outlet concentration
                                         (mg4                                      (ms4
           BOD                          250-200                85%                 50-30
                                                         (range 30%-95%)
           N-total                       60-50                 75%                 15-10
                                                          (range 20%-80%)
           P-total                       27-20                 65%                 15-10
                                                         (range 20%-70%)


In addition, the GEF alternative is designed to improve management o f wetlands and possibly restoring
precious habitats by strengthening the management of the Kune Vain protected area. The conservation
measures o f the proposed GEF alternative are actions which are `additional' to the baseline.         These
additional actions will complement existingandplanned activities consistent with the Strategic Principles o f
the Albanian Biodiversity Strategy and the implementationo fthe constructed wetlands.

Costs:The total cost of the GEF alternative is estimatedat US$11,837,000.


                                                   GEF           EIB       GOA         Total
                                                  (US$)         (US$)      (US$)       (US$)
       Sewage Pollution Reduction               3,960,000    6,287,000    680,000     11,026,000
       Environmental Management and              700,000                                 700,000
       Monitoring
       Public Communication and Replication      130,000                                 130,000

       ITotal
       Project ManagementM&E                     80,000                                   80,000
                                             I  4,870,000   I 6,287,000  I680,000   1 11,837,000 I

Benefits: The implementation o f the GEF Alternative would provide the means to protect unique coastal
landscape and marine habitats, as well as restoring highpriority wetlands (Kune Vain) and several habitats
for important bird species. Benefits generated fiom the project would include those o f local nature such as
protection o f local and regional environmental resources and increased public awareness o f environmental
issues as well as those of global nature such as reduction of nutrients in flow waters and the protection o f
rare and unique ecosystem. The GEF grant has helped leverage funds fiom other donors for additional
activities.

IncrementalCosts

The difference between the cost of Baseline scenario (US$21,930,000) and the cost with the GEF
Alternative (US$33,767,000) is estimated at US$11,837,000.           This represents the incremental cost for
achieving sustainable global environmental benefits.      Of this amount, the Government o f Albania has
committed to finance US$680,000, while US$6,287,000 is leveraged from the European Investment Bank.
The amount requested form GEF i s US$4,870,000.




                                                    - 73 -

            Table 3 - Incremental Cost Matrix

       Component                      US$                     DomesticBenefit                      Global Benefit

                              Baseline:                  Improvement inwater and
Reduction                     Js$21,800,000              wastewater services, including
(through construction                                    improved management of
o f artificial treatment                                 water utilities and
wetlands)                                                rehabilitation o f existing
                                                         water infrastructure.
                                                         Improvement inwastewater
                                                         collection will have no
                                                         significant impact on nutrient
                                                         reduction andtherefore
                                                         environmental deterioration o f
                                                         water and land and their
                                                         ecosvstemwill continue.
                              With GEF Alternative:                                      Naste water treatment
                              US$32,826,000                                              hrough artificial wetlands
                                                                                         w i l l yield significant nutrient
                                                                                         ,eduction and will help
                                                                                         'estore endangeredcoastal
                                                                                         mdmarine habitats and
                                                                                         irotect globally significant
                                                                                         )iodiversity
                              Incremental Benefit:
                              US %11.026.000
Environmental                 Baseline:              Some capacity to monitor water
Managementand                 us$loo,ooo             quality as part o f improved
Monitoring                                           management o f water utilities;
(through capacity building                           limitedcapacity to plan and
for water quality and                                implement protected area
biodiversity monitoring                              management inwetlands and
and protected area                                   protected areas
management)
                              With GEF Altemative:   Increased capacity to monitor       Sustainableintegrated
                               us$800,000            water quality and biodiversity      nanagement of marine and
                                                     indicators; increased capacity to Zoastal ecosystems and
                                                     manage a protected area;            zlobally significant wetlands;
                                                     effective management structure      meaningful participation o f
                                                     for the Kune Vain protected         jtakeholders inprotectedarea
                                                     area                                management activities
                              Incremental Benefit:
                              US$700,000
                                                       ~~

                              Baseline:                 Increasedawareness o f
Replication                   US$30,000              consumers about efficient use of
                                                     water resources
                              With GEF Alternative:  Creation o f opportunities for      [ncreasedlocal, national and
                              US$160,000             public education                    international understanding
                                                                                         o fthreats to globally
                                                                                         significant ecosystemsand
                                                                                         strategy for replication o f
                                                                                         project achievements



                                                   - 74 -

                     IncrementalBenefit:                     I

                     US$130,000
Project Management,  Baseline:            Not applicable
Monitoringand
Evaluation
                     With GEF Altemative:
                     us$so,ooo            manage projects     and knowledge sharing

                     IncrementalBenefit:
                     US$80.000
TOTAL                Baseline:
                     US$21,930,000
                     With GEF Alternative:
                     US$33,767,000
                     Increment:
                     US%11,837,000




                                         -75 -

                        Additional Annex 12: Project Area Ecosystems
             ALBANIA: Integrated Water and Ecosystems Management Project

1.      Global Significanceof the Project Area

The Integrated Water Management Project concerns the water treatment by "naturalistic methods" inthree
well identified areas, which experience highnaturalistic values. Their peculiar features can be expressed as
follows:


    0   Lezhdshengjin (Kune Vain lagoon):         The endangered species living in the proposed Managed
        Nature Reserve are: (i)  the globally threatened Phalacrocorax pygmaeus (Pygmy cormorant); (ii)
        Myotis-myotis (Mouse-ear bat); (iii) balcanica and Rana lessonae (Frogs); (iv) Lutra-Zutra
                                                Rana
        (Eurasian river otter).
    0   Durres (Rrushkull lagoon): The area has been identified as Important Bird Area (IBA) for over
         10,000 waterbirds.
    0   Saranda Bay and Butrinti lake: 96 endangered species do occur inthis area that are includedinthe
        IUCNRedList o fThreatened Animals.

Furthermore, these areas, already affected by pollution problems, represent the territories for further
residential settlement, agricultural activities and mainly potential touristic development. These are factors
to be taken into account inthe project analysis and alternatives set up and selections, mainly concerning the
impact on the environment.

Inparticular, Durres area isprogressively affectedby a noticeableurban settlement, which is experienced
by an uncontrolled expansion. Former use of the plain had a prevailing agricultural destination and a
regular network o f surface natural canals was built in order to allow surface run-off to drain into a central
main channel. This channel finally discharges at sea by means o f a hydrovore, to keep the plain dried
duringand after important rainfalls, due to the presence of a surface aquifer. The central open channel is
now the final receptor o f all sewage waters of the Durres District, whose discharge at sea can provoke
pollution effects and damages to the marine environment inthe area o f Port0 Romano. The plain i s limited
eastwardby the Erzeni River, westward by the system o f coastal hills andnorthward by the rather complex
system o f coastal wetlands and dunes o f the Lalzi bay. All natural district is threatened by the direct and
indirect impacts provokedon all environmental components by the advancing spreading o f the uncontrolled
urban settlement. The western side o f the plain i s characterized by the older urban as well as industrial
settlement, now completely idle, but land and surface aquifer contamination represent major problems not
yet solved. Inthe middle part o f the plain embankments o f an old fishingpond still remain, which represent
a physical constraint to the chaotic expansion o f the urban settlement. Being not the settlement advances
suitably planned ,the required infrastructures in terms of roads, energy and water supply, sewage water
collection, etc are completely lacking, which implies a strong impact on soil, surface and underlyingwaters
and a threat to the naturalresources o fthe marine as well as wetland ecosystems.

Saranda bay represents the most attractive coastal area o f Albania ,where eco-tourism potential is higher
and strategies o f sustainable development can be profitably implemented in the short and medium term,
with an interesting retum for the local economics. Coastal Zone Integrated Management (CZIM) o f
Saranda District, extending to Butrinti Lake, Bistrica Spring and hydrographic catchments and existing
wetlands, can be put forward and implemented only if sanitation problems and waste water treatment and
protection o f the natural and marine environment are accomplished. As a consequence an action plan
combining main sewage water trunk line (covered by PHARE Funds) with a waste water treatment by



                                                     - 76 -

naturalistic processes is highly envisaged, to preserve the marine environment from existing pollution
effects, The area identified for the construction o f the artificial wetland i s located inthe proximity o f the
Ceka canal, where several solutions can be proposed.

Lagoon of Kune Vain is an important Protected Area, o f great naturalistic value. City o f Lezha, the
intensive agricultural activity developed in the alluvional area as well as the progressive population
increase and future settlements, represent potential threats to the natural equilibrium and to the biodiversity
preservation o f the aquatic ecosystems. Indeed, the sewage waters o f Lezha directly discharge into the
surface waters ofthe Drini Rwer, whose spreading at sea can affect the environmental conditions o f all the
coastal zone surrounding the river mouth, and consequently the lagoon. Direct effects o f contamination o f
the lagoon waters can also occur by surface run-off o f the agricultural fields and a hydrovore, installed to
keep the fields dried after rainfall events, can increase the contaminant's flow. As a consequence the
eutrophication process can arise sometime inthe lagoon waters. A coordinated intervention, combining the
waste waters treatment o f Lezha sewage waters by an artificial wetland, with the accomplishment o f a
network o f natural "filter streep," in order to intercept the surface drainage o f waters o f agricultural origin
into the lagoon, should provide positive results for the preservationand protection o f the natural resources.

It is also necessary to mention the naturalistic site of Kanalla Lake, being a natural spring o f karstic
waters existing at the toe o f the hills, within the lagoon. This a typical transitional water body, highly
polluted for the direct discharge o f sewage waters coming from the village o f Shengjin. In such a case the
solution cannot adopt the peculiarities o f the natural wetlands, being the lagoon itself a protected area and
therefore no artificial ponds can be built inside. Conventional water treatment plants have to be proposed.

2.         GeneralDescription of the Albanian Marine Ecosystem

The Albanian coastal region contains two geographic entities: the Adriatic and the Ionian Sea coastal areas.
The total length o f coastline is about 429 km and the national waters confined to territorial waters o f 12
miles width. The continental shelf lies entirely within the exclusive zone. The shelf is wider in the north
(Adriatic sea), up to 25 miles across, and narrower inthe south (Ionian sea), 2 to 3 miles wide. Beyond 25
miles, sea depth exceeds 1000m inthe international channel.

There is no particular wind that prevails inthe coastal plain. Inwinter, the most frequent one blows from
the Southeast and inthe summer season, the prevailingwindblows fiom the north-western direction. There
are three types o f rather low currents in the Adriatic sea: continuous currents, tidal currents, and
wind-driven currents. Strong winds persisting for a couple of days may create temporary currents running
inthe opposite direction withrespect to steadyandtidal currents.

The Adriatic coastal area (the northem part o f the Albanian coast) i s generally characterized by coastal
lowlands (alluvial plains) intersected by rivers, and flanked by hills along its upland boundary. The coast
is made o f long sandy beaches, deltaic river mouths and lagoons. The coastal waters are shallow, receiving
water from the rivers and several drainage canals. At sea, the water depth increases slowly, with first a
sandy bottomwith the associated biocenosis which becomes muddy with increasing depth.

On the sandy or muddy bottoms, the marine flora is scarce or occupies specific areas where currents or
waves have less action. The extensive searrrass beds o f Posidonia oceanica are an important part of the
Albanian marine ecosystem, often occuuving a considerable Dart of the littoral zone. Posidonia oceanica
and very well developed marine communities are found along Port0 Romano bay and Shengiini bay. The
underwater rocky bottoms at Rodoni and Lagji Capes (Durres), and the eastern side of Vlora bay host
patches o fPosidonia oceanica.



                                                       *77 -

Porto Romano and Rrushkull-Erzeni River Outlet (Durres Area)

The area o f Porto Romano and Lalzi bay is a narrow, reclaimed part o f the coastal plain. There are some
natural habitats left along the coastline, such as a belt o f pine trees, temporary marshes, roadbeds and salt
marshes.   In addition to the loss of large wetland parts by land reclamation, the quality of natural
environment of that area continues to deteriorate due to the input o fthe pollutedErzeni river (contaminated
mainly by sewage disposed upstream), direct discharge o f untreated urban and industrial wastewater in the
Porto Romano bay, excessive felling o f trees for fuel, and uncontrolled hunting and fishing. The
underwater rocky bottoms at Rodoni and Lagji Capes host patches o fPosidonia oceanica.

The Lalzi bay with the Eaeni river mouth i s an environmentally sensitive area. The coastline o f the
Rodoni-Bishti iPalles Capes, o f which 35% are cliffs exposed to milderosion stretching along both capes.
The remaining parts o f this unit are alluvial beaches (actually, the Lalzi bay) o f which 18% i s exposed to
erosion and 47% to deposition. Any intervention altering the quantityo f the material carried by the EIzeni
river will affect the littoral, generating new erosion processes. The Porto Romano bay also i s a section
attacked by erosion.

Drini Outlet (Lezha-ShengiinArea)

This unit has about 15 km o f the coastline, from Shengjini harbor to the southem part o f Vaini lagoon
(including the Drini river), oriented in N-S direction. The shore are sandy and sediment is coming both
from the Buna and Drinirivers transported by the longshore currents. The marine slope i s gentle reaching
the 20 m isobath at average o f 2.0 km offshore. Kenalla, Kune and Vaini lagoons are separated from the
shallow coastal waters by the narrow sandbars, low and mobile dunes, and the planted pine tree belt (Pinus
halepensis, Pinuspinea).

Posidonia oceanica meadows and Penaeus kerathurus populations are reduced due to the polluted
industrial and urban discharges into this area(( 1) Albania Coastal Zone Management Plan : Final Report      -
Phase One, 1995.1). The breeding grounds o f Posidonia oceanica have also deteriorated because o f
changes in the structure o f the fishing fleet((2) Albanian Convention on Biological Diversity -1999. (2).
Fishingactivities occur inthe coastal waters including the trawlers from Shengjini and small local fishing
boats. As inother places, the localpopulation i s collecting Bivalves along the shores.

The coastal wetlands of Drini river (Kenalla-Kune Vain lagoons) are a part o f an environmentally sensitive
area. Inland o f the Shengjini beach lies the Kenalla lake surrounded by a dike with the open lake and a
dried-up part with salinity tolerant vegetation.     Through a pipeline, the urban sewage o f Shengjini is
directly drained into the lake. Further south lies the Kune lagoon extending up to Driniriver mouth. The
coastal reach in the northem part o f Shengjini has presented an coastal erosion phenomena. After that,
untilsome 2.5 kmsouth o f Shengjini, the coast is relatively stable or slightlyreceding.

Saranda Bay and fiamili Bay (Saranda Area)

The coastline o f Saranda bay to Ksamili bay can be divided into several sections: the area including the
town of Saranda shows a recent development on the northern bluff near the entrance to the harbor; the area
south of Saranda where the cliffs are steep and cut with caves and intermittent sandy beaches; the
abandoned citrus plantations and deforested areas inthe vicinity o f Ksamili; the Ksamili islands, with small
sandy beaches, wind-sculpted maquis forests, and extensive Posedonia oceanica meadows covering the
shallow areas o fthe bay o f Ksamili. The whole area from Ksamili Islands to Stillo bay could be integrated


                                                     - 78 -

in a protected and managed area with interconnected areas. In Ksamili bay and inlets, a marina and
environmentally sound resort place could be settled.

3.       General Description of Natural Wetlands Ecosystems

Kune Vain Wetland and Kenalla Lake

The Kune Vain wetland and Kenalla Lake or complex Kune Vain lagoon represent one o f the important
coastal Albanian wetland. Area o f Kune Vaini wetland and Kenalla lake represents a wetland area o f
multiple ecological and economic values and uses, as provide fish and wildlife habitats, support complex
food web, absorb water to reduce flooding and damage from storms, provide erosion control, improve the
quality o f water in particular provide open space and aesthetic value. The Drini River is the longest river
o f Albania, and the Kune Vain lagoon complex has been built by the accumulation o f the river sediments.
This area is comprised in the network o f Albanian Protected Areas, as described in the document
"Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (BSAP)," approved by Government o f Albania in the year 2000.
The delta o f Drini is recognized internationally as an Important BirdArea (IBA) and a Specially Protected
Area (SPS) and represent the area o f Kune-Westem part o f Kune lagoon, defined in the network o f
Albanian Protectedareas as Scientific Reserve, according to the first category o f IUCN. The site o f delta o f
Driniis one o fthe most important areas ofAlbania for winteringwaterbirds; the most importantsite for the
nesting o f herons (Ardeidae), and potential breeding site for the cormorants. including pygmy cormorant
(Phalacrocorax pygineus). The other two parts o f this lagoon complex, Kenalla-Eastern part o f Merxhani
lagoon and Drini River Outlet with Ceka (part o f Vain wetlands) and Vaini wetlands are defined as
Managed Nature Reserve, inaccording to the fourth category o f WCN.

Ecological Description of the Kune Lagoon and Kenalla Lake

The lagoon o f Kune presents rich floristic and faunistic values.      In the group o f fauna are included:
vertebrates (animals, birds, reptiles, amphibian, fish) and non-vertebrates (mollusks, crustaceans).      The
macrobenthos o f this lagoon i s characterized mainly by an intense growth o f Annelids, Tubuliferae,
Hydroids and Carcinus aestuarii. Also this area i s rich o f the birds as Rallus aquaticus, Gallinula
chloropus, Nycticorax Ardeola ralloids. Besides the main other bird species are present. The diversity of
the species i s higher compared with the other part o f the ecosystem (Kune Vain lagoon and Kenalla lake).
The micro algae biomass level indicates high quantity o f phytoplankton with a relatively great number o f
species). Some o f the diatoms are determined Dinoflagellates and are presented in few species. Regarding
flora and vegetation, they mainly consist of: aquatic vegetation; hydro-hydrogrophylic vegetation; halophyl
vegetation; the psamophyl or sandy-dune vegetation; forest vegetation.      The amphibian are represented
mainly by Rana lessonae, Rana dalmatina, Triturus vulgaris, Rana balcanicaetc. Different kinds o f
reptiles, usually threatened, can be mentioned, like Sea turtle and Earth tortoise. The observation o f
fishery catches and hypoeutectic salinity gradient divide Kune lagoon in three main sub areas
corresponding to fish species in these sub areas. The main fish specie are the eurohaline species: (Sparus
aurata) gilthead seabream, Dicentrarchus labrax, Mugilidae spp., Anguilla anguilla etc.

Ecological Description of the VainLagoon

The lagoon of Vain presents rich floristic and faunistic values.      In the group of fauna are included:
vertebrates (mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibian, fish) and non-vertebrates (mollusks, crustaceans). The
zooplankton was found on low quantityingeneral. The lagoon o fVain has vegetation similar to the lagoon
of Kune. More than half o f the water surface i s covered by flooded Phragmites communis beds with
Thypha latifolia, the banks are composed o f sedge communities, riparian woods of black alder galleries


                                                     - 79 -

with Alnus glutinopsa, Populus alba, Ulmus campestris, Fraxinus angustifolia, Salix alba and Quercus
sp. which are replaced over time by pine plantations. Maquis is composed mainly o f Tamarixpamiflora,
Cornus mass, Juniperus macrocarpa, Rubus ulmifolium, Ruscus aculeatus; the herbaceous vegetation o f
the marshland i s characterized by Cynadon dactylon, Dactylis glomerata, Agrostis sp., Phragmites
communis, Juncus acutus, Salicornia fructicosa.          The birds species observed in the lagoons are:
Phalocrocorax carbo sinensis, Nycticorax nycticorax, Egretta garzetta, etc. Regarding the mammals can
be found in the area: Mustela nivalis, M. putorius and Vulpes vulpes. The dominant fish species are
Anguilla anguilla and Mugil cephalus, and this lagoon presents lower salinity than Kune lagoon. Also are
present in this lagoon, in the low quantity the other eurohaline species as: (Sparus aurata) gilthead
seabream, (Solea vulgaris) common sole, (Liza aurata) golden grey mullet, (Liza saliens) leaping mullet, (
Chelon labrosus) thicklipped grey mullet, (Dicentrarcus labrax) European seabass, etc.

3.1       Rrushkulli-Erzeni River Outlet

The Rrushkulli-Erzani River Outlet area is situated in Lalzi bay, the central part o f the Adriatic coast o f
Albania, between Rodoni cape in the north and Bishti Palles cape in the south. It is boarded in the north
and east by a hilly ridge reaching a maximum height o f 225 m, while inits south-east it continues with the
drained fields o f Qerreti and Durresi, formerly salt marshlands. The catchments area o f the Lalzi bay is
estimated at about 250 km2. Some parts o fthe area, close to the coast, are depressions reaching up to 1.5 -
m. They are kept dry by the actively pumpingwater through the pumping station near Hamalla village.
The most o f the area is occupied by the agricultural land, while the once well developed hygrophilic flood
plain forest has almost disappeared; some small spots o f it are still present only along the coastline north o f
Erzeni river mouth. Sand dunes relatively well developed, halo-phyte and hygro-phyte vegetation, and a
planted pine forest can be found in this area. Waterbird and waterfowl censuses o f the last two years have
identified this area as an important IBA (over 10000 waterbirds and wetlands birds have been counted
here). The Erzeni Rwer Delta is important for migratory fish species breeding in freshwater. Posidonia
meadows, Posidonia oceanica, and very well developed marine communities are found along the rocky
littoral and Port0 Romano Bay.

Ecological Description of the Area

The area o f Rrushkull-Erzeni River outlet is originated from the alluvial sediments o f the Erzeni river,
which meanders across the area.. The sub area Rrushkull-Hammalla lays in the Lalzi bay, from outlet
(mouth) o f Erzeniriver inthe South to the overflow o f the Tarini stream inNorth and inthe East in some
cases, it lays for many kilometers, and it i s limited from the agricultural land o f the ex state agriculture
farm Sukth (Hamallaj, Rrushkull, Jube). The terrestrial environment o f this area presents these types o f
habitats: sand dunes, salt tolerant vegetation, flood plain and pine forests, and wetlanddmarshlands. Sand
dunes occupy a belt from 10 to 50 m in width along the entire coastline. There are two main types o f the
dune vegetation: Plant community dominated by Cakile maritima, in the form o f isolated spots, 4-5 m
distant from each other, closer to the shoreline. Plant community dominated by Elymusfarctus, onthe well
developed dunes, in which apart from the Dominant species, are present other species like; Eryngium
maritimum. Echinophora spinosa, Euphorbia paralias, etc. Salt tolerant vegetation i s mainly present in
the left hand side of the Erzeni river mouth. This type o f vegetation i s characterized by succulent plants
like: Arthrocnemum fruticosum, A. perenne, Salicornia europaea, Halimione portulacoides, Limonium
vulgare, Inula crithmoides etc.      The dominant species are Pinus pinaster and P. halepensis. This
formation is generally not so dense and rather young. The area contains also some rare and endangered
plant species as: Quercus robur, Fraxinus excelsior, Juniperus oxycedrus, Matthiola tricuspidata,
Pancriatium maritimum, Quercus ilex, Adiantium capillus-veneris, Butomus umbellatus, Salix triandra.
The coastal area presents the important fishingsite for Mugil sp., Liza sp., Dicentrachus labrax, Umbrina.


                                                     - 80 -

cirrosa, Lichia amia, Sparus sp., Alosa phalax, Anguila anguila and for crustaceans Paeneus ceraturus
and for bivalves Venus galina andDonax trunculus.

3.2      ButrintiLakeandRelatedWetland Environment

This area includes Butrintilagoon, Ksamil Island and Stillo Island and cape in the zone from Cape Qefali
to the Greek border. This area belongs to the District o f Saranda and covers 35 km o f coastline. The relief
i s not very important with an altitude o f 363 m at about 4.5 km o f the coast east to Butrinti lake. In
Butrinti area, grey herons, gulls, egrets, ducks and snipes are seen on the mudflats and salt marshes
bordering the mouth o fthe Butrinticanal and river up to 4 km inland. The phytoplankton population o f the
lagoon is abundant and mainly composed o f diatoms Cheatoceros sp., Cyclotella sp. and Peridinates
Prorocentrum sp. and Peridinium sp. The accumulation of phanerogam Zostera noltii foliage is an
indication o f its extensive presence within the lagoon. Balanidae are very common among Crustacea and
Mytilus galloprovincialis among Molluscs.         The birds seen in the area are: Larus cachinnans, L.
argentatus, sparrows Passer hispaniolensis, P. montanus on the lake. While in marshland and the
mudflats at the estuary are reported marsh harriers Circus aerugznosus, Acrocephalus scirpaceus, etc.
Great concentrations o f migratory birds occur infall and winter, waders on the mudflats, saltem and inthe
estuary o f the channel while Anatids assemble inlarge colonies on the lake during the coldest months. This
area i s also the richest o f Albania for amphibians and reptiles. Otters have been recorded in the lagoon.
The terrestrial vegetations are characterized by associations o f Caxilo xanthum italici (Caxile maritima,
Xanthium stumerium), Crithmo-Limonictum anfract. (Crithmum maritimum, Limonium anfractus),
associations o f Crithmetum (Crithmum maritimum), associations o f Ammophiletum arundinaceae
(Ammophila arerrari, Medicago marina, Echinophora spinosa), o f Salicornictum fructicosae
(Arthrocnemetum fructicosum), Salicornictum radicentis (Arthrocnemum perenne), Juncetum maritimi
(Juncus mariti"),     Juncetum acuti (Juncus acutus) and o fSporoboletum (Sporobolus pungeus).

4.         Surface Water Quality andPollution Loads

Duringthe study a waterlwastewater and seawater quality examinations have been performed, inorder to
confirm or adjust available water quality data.       The examination mainly concerned raw sewage and
receptor water-bodies quality. The sea water quality have been investigated in terms o f indices on water,
sediments and biota. The analyzed sewage samples taken at project's sites wastewater facilities can be
characterized as strong-moderate with typical domestic composition.        The analyses and assessment o f
existing studies, as well as the analyses performed during the study, show the degradation o f the quality o f
water resources by pollution from land-based activities (nutrients, pathogens and oxygen demanding
wastes), in the all coastal cities o f Durres, Lezha and Saranda. The expected wastewater pollution effects
on the marine environment are described infollowing paragraph 5.

5.       Wastewater PollutionEffects on the Ecosystem

Environment is an end user o f water resources which poses therefore sometimes severe restrictions
particularly on the emission o f wastewater from other water use sectors. High BOD loads and suspended
materials may influence biochemical and light conditions in the marine environment; industrial
micropollutants may be directly toxic for aquatic life and fish; and pollution from excess agrochemicals
may have similar effects.

The marine ecosystem, though almost certainly damaged by uncontrolled wastewater emission of coastal
urban concentrations, industry and polluted rivers, i s still generally in a reasonable condition and its
ecological and economic value may be considerable. Unfortunately, studies about the value and eventual


                                                     - 81 -

degradation o f the marine ecosystem are rare and an overall inventory has never been executed. The
Biodiversity Action Plan has as a priority the mapping o f the sea meadows with Posidonia oceanica and
the study o f animal groups and plants, because of lows scale of knowledge of a considerable part o f these
plants.

Little is known in Albania about marine environment along the Adriatic Coast and the effects o f the
considerable pollution o f the last 30 years, both by discharge into the sea o f polluted river water and by
direct discharge o f untreated urban and industrial wastewater. Except for smaller areas along the coast in
the vicinity o f cities and industrial concentrations, inspection shows ingeneral visually clear and unaffected
waters. However, systematic research on marine ecosystems and the effect o f pollution has never been
executed.

The problem o f pollution in the marine environment becomes ever more serious. Adriatic Sea is easily
exposed to pollution because o f restricted water exchange and long shore lines. Areas with stagnant or
partly stagnant conditions are especially sensitive to pollutiondue to slow water exchange. Organic wastes
from communities and industries will cause an oxygen reduction process in the water. Oxygen i s utilized
for oxidation o f the organic matter and nutrients bound in the matter will be released. This process will
cause an increase o f the primary plankton production in the area. This again will increase the oxygen
utilization. A secondary oxygen reduction process will begin, where the new organic matter is oxidized.
This secondary oxygen reduction may require two to five times more oxygen than the primary process.
This secondary process is not accounted for inthe conventional BOD techniques.

The enrichment o f natural waters by nytnens (eutrophication), primarily nitrogen inmarine waters but also
phosphorus, has been associated with increased primary productivity and nuisance algal growth in coastal
zones and semi-enclosed and enclosed areas o f seas. Increased loads o f nutrients to coastal waters have
caused increasing eutrophication and the major sources o f nutrients to coastal waters are from sewage
disposal. The primary production increases until the light penetration limits it. The consequences o f
eutrophication can be increased frequency o f algal blooms (sometimes toxic), increased water turbidity,
slime production, oxygen depletion in deep waters and mass fish and benthic fauna kills. Signs o f such
eutrophication can be observed in the Saranac bay, Shengjini and Kamala.                   The relatively low
concentrations o f dissolved oxygen in Saranda bay (approx. 7.63 mg/l), in Shengjini bay, Kenalla Lake
(approx. 8.46 mg/l) and Drinit river (9.70 mg/l), are to be related to pollution by organic matter. Also the
results o fthe chemical analysis into the sea near the points o f sewage discharge demonstrate the presence o f
nitrites. Particularly in Saranda bay, Shengjini bay and Port0 Romano bay, it was observed((3) Kashta L.
and M i o A., 1992-Tirana University.3) the development o f some nitrofile algae populations (Ulva rigida
and Enteromorpha spp.), and this i s an other demonstration o f eutrophication in this waters. Ammonia
can be converted to organic nitrogen by these resident algae Wlva, Enteromorpha). Ulva blooms can
become so luxuriant that the algal decay products are more unpleasant than the sewage itself. Sewage
pollution i s directly responsible for the closure o f many molluscan shellfish growing areas in Europe.
Shellfish can accumulate and retain pathogenic organisms and toxic organic and inorganic substances
present in the growing areas. During the last years mussel breeding was practically stopped, both for
intemal organizational reasons, but above all because o f the block on exports imposed by the EC for
sanitary reasons, in October 1994 for all livingproducts o f the fishery sector. The main requirement for
the export o f live mussels to the EU is the setting up o f a shellfish monitoring system to guarantee the
safety o f bivalves harvested from water bodies. Currently Albania faces a ban due to a previous outbreak
of cholera in live molluscs. This issue is now being addressed through the development o f a monitoring
system to certify the areas on the Albanian coastline and the marine waters that can harvest and export
mussels. This is covered by EC/91/492 on placing live bivalves on the EUmarket.




                                                        - 82 -

Posidonia oceanica meadows populations are reduced due to the polluted industrial and urban discharges
into this area, particularly in the Shengjini- Lezha and Saranda-Ksamili area, but also inthe Porto Romano
and Lalzi bay. This has been associated with an increase in water turbidity reducing the amount o f light
exposure on the sea bed and this caused reduction in the Posidonia oceanica beds over the last decades
(Kashta L., 1998).      In sea areas with a low nutrient content a release of organic wastes may cause
eutrophication o f the surface water in the whole area.        The increased biological production may be
beneficial to the surface water by increasing the fish yield, but it can have serious effects on conditions in
the deep water. Increaseddecaying organic matter there may lead to oxygen deficiency and can destroyed
bottom fauna.      It seems to be very difficult for nature to restore oxidizing conditions when such a
fertilization cycle has started.

InAlbania, the major types of endangered ecosystems and habitats are not only coastal (sand dunes, river
deltas, alluvial forests, lagoons, and coastal lakes), but also marine ecosystems at medium and infralitoral
level ((1) Albania Coastal Zone Management Plan : Final Report - Phase One, 1995.1).           The Posidonia
meadows represents an important ecosystem in the Adriatic Sea. The fundamental role played by the
marine phanerogam meadows and in particular by Posidonia, can be summarized in the following points:
stabilization o f the sea-bed through the development o f an effective radical and stoloniferous apparatus;
reduction of the intensity o fmovements o f water with consequent maintenance o f coastal balance, thanks to
the softening effect o f the "matte" and the layer o f vegetation; high production o f oxygen and organic
material by means o f photosynthesis; direct and indirect source for numerous organisms and starting point
for a complete food web; habitat o f choice for numerous commercially important species, such as fish,
cephalopods and crustaceans.

Information fiom all three project areas gives quite a clear picture o f the organic load o f the respective
coastal zones. In all the project areas the urban centers discharge sewage directly into the sea (Saranda,
Porto Romano-Durres and Shengjini bay) or into the wetlands (Kenalla ) or into the river (Drini-Lezha) at
short distances from the sea and discharged sewage is not treated. The situation is particularly severe in
Saranda, Shengjini and Kenalla. Inthe city o f Saranda, urban and industrial waste is discharged directly in
the central part o f Saranda bay, and through the Cuka channel ((2) According EU PHARE
Program-"Emergency Measures-Saranda Water Supply and Sanitation"-see Annex 92) into the sea. The
waste plume spreads across the bay o f Saranda, in a northern direction, polluting waters in front o f
Saranda.

These discharges o f untreated domestic sewage can significantly add to the total loads o f contaminants.
Due to the breakdown o f organic matter, such discharges can cause immediate problems to marine life fiom
high oxygen demands in the water column and sediments and through toxic effects of ammonia. Of
immediate concern to humans i s the presence o f large numbers of pathogens that can cause illness and
disease.    Also associated with the presence o f pathogens is the potential contamination o f seafood,
particularly shellfish, which in Saranda bay and Butrinti lagoon (mussel Mytilus galloprovincialis) and in
areas like Porto Romano, Lalzi and Shengjini (clams Chamelea gallina, Ruditapes decussatus etc) are
commercially very important for Albanian fishery.

Pollutants may affect reproduction in many different ways. Teratological development o f embryos may
result in deformed or malfunctioning larvae which do not survive hatching.             Reproduction may be
influenced by behavioral changes o f the adults duringthe mating season. Their behavior, the production o f
eggs and sperm, the secretion o f egg membranes, eggshells and production o f egg nutrients, may be all
affected by changes o f hormone h c t i o n and enzyme activity. Changes in the ecosystem may influence
reproductive success when vitellogenesis is directly influenced by the availability o f food. Inthe coastal
area o f Shengjini bay (particularly northern part-Rana e hedhun), in Porto Romano and Lalzi bay and near


                                                      - 83 -

the Saranda and Ksamili bay there are very important areas for reproduction of some fish species, first o f
all for sea bass (Dicentrarchus labrax).

6.         Synthesis of the Pollution Effects inthe Project Areas

According the available data and observations, the pollution effects by uncontrolled and increased urban
wastewater discharges into the marine environment can provide negative consequences both at the
environmental level and to the institutional and economic ones.

A list o fpotential problems follows:

    0    endangered marine ecosystems and habitats, in medium and infralittoral level @articularly
         Shengjini-Lezha area, Porto Romano bay and Saranda bay);
    0    endangered coastal ecosystems: sand dunes, delta rivers (particularly Drini-Lezha), alluvial and
         wet forests, lagoons (Kune and Vaini) and coastal lakes (Kenalla);
    0    risks and adverse impacts on biodiversity, and some o f the major adverse impacts have been:
         habitat loss and fragmentation, damage [Porto Romano bav, Shenaiini and Saranda bav) and
         degradation [Kenalla lake) o f habitats and ecosystems, loss o f species or the threat o f their
         extinction etc.;
    0    reduction of the Posidonia oceanica meadows populations, particularly in the Shengjini- Lezha
         and Saranda-Ksamili area, but also inthe Porto Romano and Lalzi bay;
    0    development of some algae populations (Ulva and Enteromorpha), particularly in Saranda bay,
         Shengjini bay and PortoRomano bay;
    0    observation o f some eutrophication inthe Saranda bay, Shengjini area and Kenalla lake;
    0    probability to affect reproduction of the fish species (e.g.sea bass) inthe marine ecosystems o f
         Shengjini bay (particularly northern part-Rana and hedhun), in Porto Romano and Lalzi bay and
         near the Saranda and Ksamili bay, etc.;
    0    negative consequences on the eco-tourism development;
    0    delay in the implementation o f the Coastal Zone Integrated Management and of the economic
         development; and
    0    difficulties in implementing institutional strengthening measures in order to implement the
         sustainability and biodiversity maintenance policies.




                                                    - 84 -

                                         Additional Annex 13:
              ALBANIA: Integrated Water and Ecosystems Management Project

          FINANCIAL ASSESSMENT OF THE THREE PARTICIPATING COMPANIES
                EXTRACT FROMTHE PAD (REPORT NO. 24826) FOR THE MWWP

NPV=US$5 million; FRR= 15 %

Project Financing Plan: The total cost o f the MWWP is estimated at US$21.93 million (including taxes
and duties o f US$2.65 million). The IDA credit o f US$15 million equivalent will account for about 68%
o f the Project cost. The entire balance o fUS$6.93 million (or 32%) will come from the central government
as grants since all four utilities would not be in a position to generate funds for investment purposes from
internal sources throughout the Project implementation period. With the help of the Operator, all four
utilities are projected to break-even on a cash flow basis (i.e., collected cash revenues covering all cash
operating expenses) in 2007, the penultimate year o f project implementation, and to reach full-cost
recovery, including depreciation, not later than 2010.

Financial System and Tariffs: Water companies in Albania follow financial regulations, and accounting
and tax rules, issued by the central government.        These rules and regulations deviate substantially at
present from intemational accounting standards (US) for similar revenue-eaming entities. This affects the
presentation o f financial information by the utilities. In the case o f the Durres Water and Sewerage
Company (DWSC), some improvements in its financial management systems, as well as extemal audits,
were introduced under the earlier Bank projects; nevertheless there is scope for further strengthening as
identified by the auditors. One o f the key tasks o f the Operator, therefore, would be to develop and
implement appropriate improvements for each utility that would provide adequate, relevant and accurate
information for management decision-making and extemal financial reporting.

Until 1993, the water supply utilities were under the central government's Ministry o f Territorial
Adjustment and Transport (MOTAT). In that year, responsibility for operation o f the utilities was
transferred to the local governments. However, the central government still owns the utilities, and with the
exception o f the four participating utilities, continues to review and approve all investment decisions.
Wastewater services were provided by departments o f the municipalities. They were entirely dependent on
the budget for their revenues. Inthe case o f Fier, Lezha, and Saranda, the water supply and wastewater
services have now been merged. A decision to merge inthe case o f Durres has been taken and is expected
to be implementedsoon.

Until 1998, all decisions in regard to potable water tariffs were centralized and subject to the central
government's approval. In 1998, under a policy o f liberalization o f water tariffs, water supply enterprises
were required to make an assessment o f the costs o f providing the services and to propose tariff structures
to their local authorities. Upon the approval o f the authorities, the proposed structure is then presented to
the NWRC for approval. The decentralization law, which came into effect inJanuary 2002, transferred the
tariff setting hnctionto the localgovemments alone.

Past and Present Financial Position:       Historical financial statements for each o f the four utilities are
presented in Annex 5. With the exception o f DWSC, the financial statements have not been the subject o f
independent extemal audits since these were not required under the governing local regulations (for DWSC,
the audits were required under the Project Agreement with IDA). Duringthe three-year period 1998 to
2001, the financial situation o f eachutilityworsened. All four utilities incurred annual losses ineach of the



                                                     - 85 -

years. In 2001, losses for Durres, Fier, Lezha and Saranda were Lek 314 million, 136 million, 43 million
and 27 million, respectively for a combined loss o f about Lek 520 million (US$3.7 million equivalent).
Collected revenues have not been adequate to cover the utilities' cash operating expenses (not taking into
account depreciation and other non-cash charges). The increasing cash deficits have been met through a
combination o f direct and indirect subsidies from the government's budget -- direct subsidies include
payments made directly to KESH, the electricity company which i s the utilities' principal creditor, and to
the water utilities themselves, and the indirect subsidies, the accumulation o ftax and other payables.

The main issues and problems affecting the utilities' financial performance are the following: On the
revenues side, (i)  low percentage o f billed water: For each utility, the share o f billed water consumption
out o f total water production is low, which reduces the revenue base; (ii)low tariff levels and distorted
tariff structures:   The tariffs, particularly for residential consumers, have been kept at low levels on
political considerations. The levels currently in force are not adequate to cover the utilities' cash operating
expenses even if the utilities were able to enforce 100% collection o f billed revenues. The situation i s
further exacerbated by the fact that residential consumption accounts for the bulk o f water consumption for
eachutility. Although tariffs for the other consumers are currently higher, the utilities are unable to enforce
collections, including fiom    institutional and budgetary agencies; and (iii)low collections:        Collected
revenues have generally rangedbetween 30% to 35% o f the billed revenues for the four utilities. Although
nominally the utilities can enforce collection by discontinuing service to nonpaying consumers, inpractice it
has proved difficult to enforce due to political interference and influence which in effect discourage
disconnections. Collections have also been problematic in the case o f supply to villages where a tradition
o fnon-payment has evolved over time.

Onthe expenses side, (i)operating inefficiencies: The physical facilities and equipment have progressively
deteriorated due to the lack o f adequate funds for replacement and maintenance. Repairs and maintenance
are undertaken on an ad hoc basis in response to day-to-day needs, and are severely limited by the
resources available.    Break-downs and make-shift fixes increasingly have taken the place of planned
maintenance, and contributed to rising operating expenses. Specific consumption o f electricity per unit o f
water produced has also been increasing due to inefficient pumping and other equipment; (ii)      overstaffing:
Productivityratios (employees per 1,000 connections) are lower by a factor o f three to four as compared to
well-run Western European utilities. Although salary levels are low in comparison with Western Europe,
the overstaffing results inthe share o f personnel expenses intotal expenses equaling or exceeding Westem
European levels; and (iii) rising inputprices: Electricity expense is a major item for each utilityaccounting
for 30% to 50% o f total expenses. Electricity tariff levels in Albania have been rising as KESH, the
electricity company, progressively achieves full-cost recovery, as required under the Action Plans agreed
with IDA andbilateral donor agencies.

Overall, in addition to these problems related to revenues and expenses, the utilities' financial management
systems are in need of substantial improvement. The existing systems, particularly for Fier, Lezha, and
Saranda, do not provide adequate, timely, and relevant information to the utilities' management, including
for monitoring andcontrolling ofreceivables and payables, or for external financial reporting.

Recent Actions Taken by the Central Government, the Municipalities and the Utilities: As part o f its
Action Plan for the recovery o f KESH, the electricity enterprise, the central government compensated
KESH inthe amount o f Lek 1.1 billion (US$7.9 million equivalent) in2001 for its arrears from the water
companies. Since KESHwas the water companies' main creditor, this has provided substantial reliefto the
water companies. Under a program agreedwith the IMF to foster greater transparency and discipline inthe
settlement o f inter-enterprise arrears and arrears towards the budget, the Government has required all
state-owned companies, budgetary agencies, and water companies to prepare jointly agreed statements as to


                                                     - 86 -

their respective collectibles and obligations. Thereafter the M O F intends to enter into agreements with the
companies seeking subsidies from the central budget which will specify the undertakings and obligations o f
the enterprises inreturn for the subsidies. These agreements are expected to reduce uncertainty and provide
greater stability in the financial planning o fthe entities.

The local governments o f Durres, Fier, Lezha, and Sarandahave approved water supply tariff increases for
the year 2003 and the introduction o f a sewerage tariff. The approved levels are in line with those
discussed by Bank staffwith the utilities as part o f the first year o f the overall recovery program during the
period o f Project implementation. These initial increaseswill be followed by further progressive increases
during Project implementation, keepinginview affordability considerations.

Future Finances: Projections o f the four utilities' financial statements, including the main assumptions
made, are providedin Annex 5. A key assumption inthe projections is that the selected Operator would be
in place by early 2003 so that the expected improvements in operating and financial performance would
progressively be achieved thereafter. To determine the respective levels o f contribution by the utilities and
the local/central governments, financial analysis was carried out during Project preparation (available in
Project Files) examining the implications and impacts o f alternative scenarios as to the speed o f full-cost
recovery by the utilities from their current low positions. Conclusions from this analysis, discussed with
the utilities, the municipalities, and the MOF, were that, given the current low levels o f tariffs, collections,
and cost-recovery, and taking into account affordability and social impact considerations, the most realistic
scenario is to require the utilities to target to achieve a cash break-even (collected revenues not less than
cash operating expenses) by 2007, the penultimate year ofthe project implementation period. Furthermore,
the on-lending o f the IDA credit to the utilities would have to be close to IDA terms ifthe utilities are to be
able to make the minimum level o f investments needed after 2007 from internally generated funds. Thus,
the IDA credit would be onlent to the four utilities for the same grace and maturity periods (10/20 years)
but at a higher interest rate o f 1.5% per annum. However, during the period 2003 to 2007, since the
utilities will continue to incur operating deficits, the interest payable by them on their subloans will be
capitalized and added back to their subloans. Starting 2008, the utilities will begin paying in full the
interest on the subloans (including the capitalized interest). The Govemment and the utilities will review
the situation in 2008, the last year o f project implementation, to determine if any change in the terms (e.g.,
a higher interest rate) i s feasible and warranted.

 The financial projections carried out for this alternative indicate that, for the utilities:

           Cash operating break-even (i.e., a working ratio not greater than 1.OO) would be achievednot later
           than 2007;

           Full-cost recovery (including depreciation andadequate provisioning), would be achieved not later
           than 2010;

           Domestic tariffs would needto be progressively increased inreal terms during the implementation
           period by an estimated 168% for Durres, 120%for Fier, 263% for Lezha, and 200% for Saranda;

           Collection ratios would needto be progressively doubled fkom the current low levels; and

           The utilities would have to start servicing the debt on the subloans (including the capitalized
           interest for the period 2003 to 2007) starting in2008.




                                                       - 87 -

For the central government, during the implementation period, 2003 to 2008, the Government would need
to contribute an estimated amount o f Lek 2,060 million (US$14.73 million equivalent) to cover both
Project investment-related financing as well as subsidies to cover operating cash deficits and debt service,
as follows:

     e     Local counterpart financing (including taxes and duties) for the project (US$3.16 million);


     0     Technical assistance (US$4.05 million);


     0     Operating subsidy (on a declining basis, expected to be eliminated by 2007) to cover electricity
           and other operating expenses (US$5.65 million); and

     e     Debt service towards IDA on the existing andnew debt inthe case o f Durres, and the new debt in
           the case o f the other three utilities (US$0.68 million).

In addition, the central government would also have to provide financing, through the social security
funding sources, for the severance payments to the employees rendered redundant when the Management
Contract is implemented (US$l. 19 million).

The net fiscal impact on the central government's budgeti s discussed inthe relevant section below.

The respective obligations and undertakings on the part o f the central government and the uti1itiesAocal
governments are reflected in the Credit Agreement between IDA and Albania, and will be reflected in the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements betweenthe MOF and each utility.

Affordability: The scope and size o f the Project have been based on affordability considerations. The rate
of tariff increases over the implementation period has taken into account the impact on householdwater and
sewerage bills. The socially acceptable rate o f tariff increases has also been used to determine the relative
contributions o f the utilities and the central government during the Project period. To provide relief to
low-income households, the utilities and their municipalities have accepted that an amount o f 20 lpcd will
be supplied free o f charge to all metered consumers. Any consumption over this level would be charged at
the tariff rate for metered consumption. Ifa metered household consumes amounts higher than 20 lpcd and
fails to pay the dues, it will be subject to disconnection.           The estimated affordability impacts are
summarized in Annex 5, Table 9. The estimates show that the projected higher water and sewerage tariffs
will remain affordable (less than 4% o f monthly income) for average income households (monthly income
of Lek 45,000) at consumption levels o f up to 150 lpcd. With the progressive introduction o f metering, as
planned, households would have both the ability and the incentive to further limit their consumption and
eliminate wastage. Consumption of the poorer households tends to be lower, and will remain affordable
(3% of monthly income) for levels o f up to 40 lpcd. For the extreme poor households, in case they are
unable to pay, it will be ensured that they have reasonable access to standpipes for their water supply. The
municipalities, incooperationwith the Operator, will monitor the success o fthe affordability approach.

FinancialRate o f Returnand Risk Analysis: The financial viability o fthe Project depends critically on the
anticipated improvements from the management contract.               The Operator i s expected to be able to
progressively improve the collection performance as indicated while at the same time enabling cash 0 & M
expense savings through improved techniques and practices. The utilities' experience has provedthat such
improvements would not be possible without the assistance o fthe Operator. The Project's FRR is therefore
based upon the incremental benefits (incremental collected revenues plus incremental 0 & M expense
savings) to be derived from the management contract. The FRR i s estimated at 15% with a Net Present


                                                        - 88 -

Value (NPV) o f Lek 752 million (US$5 million equivalent) at a discount rate o f 10%.

The main financial risks are: (i) Operator is not effective in securing the necessary improvements due to
                                  the
either (a) inadequate performance, or (b) lack o f the required support from the utilities, the municipalities,
and the central government. This would affect the Project through:

    lower than anticipated revenues due to lower than projected tariffs or lower than projected collection
    ratios or both; and lower than estimated 0 & M expense savings; this includes delays in the planned
    staff reduction.

(ii) onthepartofthecentralgovernmenttoprovidetherequiredfinancialcontributionsinatimely
    failure
and adequate manner which could adversely affect Project implementation and entity performance.

The risk with regardto the Operator's performance is sought to be mitigated through:


     0    Selection o f an internationally reputed firm with experienced staffassigned to the Project;
     0    Performance incentives built into the management contract where a substantial part o f the overall
          compensation would be determinedby performance inachieving agreed targets; and
     0    Establishment o f an appropriate oversight arrangement composed o f municipal and utility
          representatives to monitor progress and provide required support.

The risk with regard to the Operator obtaining the required support from the local/central governments
would be mitigated through the establishment o f the Executive Committee consisting of representatives o f
the central and local governments which would periodically meet with the Operator to review progress and
address issues.     IDA would have to remain involved in the process through proactive and diligent
supervision to anticipate problems to the extent possible and to help inexpediting solutions.

The risk inregardto the timely and adequate financial contributions by the central government is mitigated
to some extent by the fact that the key ministries (MOF, MOTAT) have been involved in the Project
preparation process which has includedjoint reviews o f the Project objectives, the financial constraints and
alternatives, and the sharing o f the financial burden between the central government and the
municipalitieshtilities. In addition, the central government would participate in the Executive Committee
responsible for contract supervision. The central government's obligation to financially support the Project
is reflected in the Credit Agreement. Nevertheless, the risk cannot be entirely eliminated, and needs to be
viewed in the context of IDA'Sexit strategy in case o f non-performance by the central/local governments
and/or the utilities.

Sensitivity analysis for the FRR is presented in Annex 5, Table 8.           The collection rate is the most
significant variable for the FRR; a shortfall o f 10% inthe collectionrate would drive the FRR from 15% to
9%.

Financial conditionalitv: The enabling of successful performance by the Operator, and timely and adequate
financial contributions by the central government, would be critical for the success o f the Project. To
ensure this, under the Credit Agreement, the central government i s requiredto:


     0    Confirm that it would provide, annually during project implementation, in a timely and adequate
          manner the funds required by each utility to cover (i)    local counterpart financing o f the Project
          cost; (ii) import duties, VAT and other applicable taxes on Project investments; (iii)      operating
          subsidies to cover all operational expenses which cannot be covered by revenues collected,


                                                      - 89 -

          including but not limited to, expenses for operations and maintenance cost, social security
          payments, VAT payments, and profit tax; and (iv) debt service towards IDA with respect to the
          subloans from the existing and new IDA credits;


     0    Enable the municipalities and the utilities to put into effect the tariffs proposed by them duringthe
          implementation o fthe project; and


     0    Ensure that budgetary institutions and agencies timely and fully meet their payment obligations
          towards the utilities.

Underthe Subsidiary LoanAgreements, eachutilitywould berequiredto:

     0    Review with IDA on a semi-annual basis its financial performance, including revenues and
          expenditures for the preceding and following semesters, and annually its projected performance
          for the following two years, on the basis o f forecasts prepared by it, and to take steps as
          necessary, including but not limited to tariff increases and improved collections, to ensure the
          adequacy o f the revenues to meet the projected financial requirements; and not incur any new debt
          unless the forecasts show that debt service coverage can be maintained at a level o f not less than
          1.5.

Fiscal Impact:

Over the implementation period, the MWWP would have a net positive impact on the central government's
budget through progressive reduction and elimination o f subsidies. Although the central government would
have to contribute to Project financing through coverage o f the local counterpart financing requirements,
the applicable taxes and duties on the investments, and the debt service on the IDA credit (during 2003 to
2007), this would be more than offset by the progressive elimination o f the operating deficits o f the four
utilities with the help o f the Operator. Inthe absence of the Project, the present situation o f major drain on
the central govemment budget through direct andindirect subsidies would continue andlikely progressively
worsen; under the Project, the need for operating subsidies is expected to be eliminated by 2007. Beyond
the implementation period, the improvements inrevenues generated under the Project would yieldincreased
VAT net transfers to the budget.




                                                      - 90 -

MAP SECTION


