Page  1
ALBANIA
Intergrated Water & EcoSystems Management GEF
GEF Project Brief
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSIE
Date
:
March 4, 2003
Team Leader
:
Andreas Rohde
Sector Manager
: 
Motoo Konishi
Country Director
:
Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Project ID
:
P075156
Focal Area: 
M
Sector(s)
:
General water, sanitation and flood protection 
sector (100%)
Theme(s):
Biodiversity (P),  Pollution management and 
environmental health (P),  Other environment and natural 
resources management (S)
Project
 Financing Data
 [
] Loan          [
] Credit          [
X
] Grant          [
] Guarantee          [
] Other: 
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m):
10.89
Financing Plan (US$m):          Source
Local
Foreign
Total
BORROWER/RECIPIENT
0.72
0.00
0.72
EC: EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK
0.00
5.30
5.30
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
0.00
4.87
4.87
Total:
0.72
10.17
10.89
Borrower/Recipient:
GOV'T. OF ALBANIA
Responsible agency
:  
PIU
World Bank Water PIU
Address:
Rr. "Bajram Tusha", Lagja Nr 14, Durres, Albania
Contact Person: 
Mr. Genci Gjeci, Director
Tel:
355 52 64184
Fax:  
355 52 64184
Email:  
ggjeci@yahoo.de
Estimated Disbursements 
( Bank FY/US$m):
FY
Annual 
Cumulative
Project implementation period
:
5 years
Expected effectiveness date
:
Expected closing date
:
OPCS PAD Form: Rev. March, 2000
GEF Project Brief (PAD)
Page  2
A.  
Project Development Objective
1
.  
Project development objective:
(see Annex 1)
The main objective of the project is to assist the Government of Albania in improving the management of 
uncontrolled wastewater discharging into international waters which is threatening the global significant 
ecosystems along the coastline of Albania.  The project will contribute to increase global environmental 
benefits by: (i) reducing sewage pollution loads generated by urban settlement areas of the three coastal 
cities Durres, Lezha and Saranda and (ii) promoting and improving the management of the tidal 
Kune-Vain marshland (near Lezha).
The global environmental objectives are: (i) enhance protection of marine ecosystem; (ii) protect and 
increase the habitat for endangered water flora & fauna species of coastal marshlands; (iii) restore tidal 
marshlands that is currently polluted at unbearable levels by untreated sewage; (iv) prevent destruction of 
the tidal marshes from sewage discharge; (v) create a buffer zone (wetlands) for the protection of the 
environment and conservation of biological diversity;  (vi) improve environmental monitoring capacity in 
the participating areas.
The objectives would be achieved through: (i) reduction of sewage pollution loads through the 
development and establishment of low cost water treatment technologies (Constructed Treatment 
Wetlands) producing environmental incremental  benefits;  (ii)  promoting the establishment and improve 
the management of the Kune-Vain protected marshland;  (iii)  develop a scheme for dissemination and 
replication of project achievements.
2
.  Key performance indicators:  
(see Annex 1)
Progress towards the project objective will be measured by the following key performance indicators:
Reduction of pollution and improvement of the environmental conditions in the participating areas.  
\01
The effect on the significant ecosystem will be measured through the following ecological indicators: 
(i) nutrient (Nitrogen/Phosphorus) removal, i.e., percentage reduction in nutrient loads in water 
inflow and outflow; (ii) BOD
5
 removal ratio in water inflow and outflow.
Increased number and size of endangered species population in the participating coastal areas and the 
\01
Kune-Vain marshland.
Implementation of a basic monitoring system of the coastal areas.
\01
Preparation and implementation of an effective Management Plan for Kune-Vain natural reserve.
\01
B.  Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: 
(see Annex 1)
Document number:
24189-ALB
Date of latest CAS discussion
:
July 31, 1998
The project is included in the CAS of 2002 that emphasized poverty alleviation and social cohesion as 
the underlying conditions to assure sustainable development in Albania within a stable Southeast 
European Region.  Ensuring environmental sustainability and sustainable management of natural 
resources are one of the main objectives of Albania's National Strategy for Social and Economic 
Development (NSSED) that is the foundation for the new CAS.
The main emphasis of the on-going CAS consultation is on accelerating poverty alleviation in connection 
with economic growth, improving governance, building capacity in the institutions, and improving 
natural resource management.  In promoting effective natural resource management, the projects supports 
- 2 -
Page  3
the NSSED and CAS goals.  Also, in line with the decentralization strategy in the NSSED and CAS, this 
project will promote environment management at the local level by setting up transparent and inclusive 
mechanisms at the municipality and community level for decision-making, implementation and 
management of natural resources.
Also, the government is making an effort to highlight environmental-poverty linkages in the NSSED, 
which emphasizes the need to reverse environmental degradation, rehabilitate heavily polluted areas that 
jeopardize health, and ensure the sustainable use of natural resources.  The National Environmental 
Agency was upgraded in August 2002 to a Ministry of Environment, and an updated National 
Environmental Action Plan was approved by the government in January 2002.  Within this context, there 
is an opportunity to strengthen the government's regulatory capacity, help the government demonstrate its 
commitment to the environment through visible actions, and further increase public environmental 
awareness.
1a. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
The project is fully consistent with the Global Environment Facility (GEF) Operational Program No.12 
(Integrated Ecosystem Management) with linkages to the Operational Programs No.2 (Coastal, Marine, 
and  Freshwater  Ecosystems);  No.9  (Integrated  Land  and  Water  Multiple  Focal  Area);  and  No.10 
(Contaminated-Based). 
In particular, the project entails:
abating pollution to international waters;
\01
conserving and promoting biodiversity in coastal and marine ecosystems;
\01
helping to protect and increase the habitat for endangered water birds, halophyte plants and other 
\01
species of coastal marshes;
restoring and preventing destruction of tidal marshland that are currently polluted at unsustainable 
\01
levels by untreated sewage;
avoiding difficult and costly restoration of tidal marshland in the future.
\01
The coastal marshlands of Albania constitute one of the more important ecosystems of the Region, as 
stated in GEF project “Conservation of Wetland and Coastal Ecosystems in the Mediterranean Region”. 
In particular endangered and endemic species as the Pygmy cormorant (Phalacrocorax pygmaeus), the 
Mouse-ear bat (Myotis miotis) and the Otter (Lutra lutra) live in these habitats and should be considered 
as flag species.
Water pollution which is caused by the inflow of untreated sewage is the main threat to these ecosystems.  
The impact of the eutrophication on the marine communities (plankton, benthos, fish) relationships is not 
monitored in Albania to the same level of detail as on the wetland communities.  However it has been 
pointed out that the coastal water pollution, particularly untreated waste waters, heavily affects Posidonia 
oceanica meadows and the related communities (e.g. the endangered species Pinna nobilis, see Annex 3).
Regional GEF projects have focused part of their activities on the conservation of biodiversity of 
Albanian wetlands and lagoons as the project Conservation of Wetland and Coastal Ecosystems in the 
Mediterranean Region Project (UNDP) and the Lake Ohrid Conservation Project. Taking into 
consideration the international relevance of these habitats, other GEF projects have been planned on 
other Albanian
wetlands as on the lake Prespa, and on the Karavasta lagoon. Very few activities have 
been planned for the Albanian marine habitats. This is probably because of the scarcity of data and 
information on these areas, although it is known that these habitats are inhabited by many live 
- 3 -
Page  4
endangered species (e.g. Monk Seal (Monachus Monachus) and Sea Turtle (Caretta Caretta)).  Because 
of the urgency of the situation from the environmental and health point of view, this project is focusing 
on the planning of constructed wetlands for wastewater treatment to reduce the water pollution and 
health risks and on wildlife management measures supporting the biological diversity of the following 
wetlands/marine areas: 
(i)
Kune-Vain Marshl
and and Coastal Area,
 Kanella Lake
(ii)
Durres Porta Romana and Rrushkull marine environment;
(iii)
Saranda bay and Ksamili bay;
All these areas are components of the network of Albanian Protected Areas, described in the document 
“Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (BSAP)”, approved by Government of Albania in the year 2000.
Although the project is presented in a separate path it has to be seen as an integral part of the recently 
approved  Municipal  Water  and  Wastewater  Project  (MWWP).    The  development  objective  of  the 
MWWP is to improve water supply and sanitation services through the introduction of a new incentive 
based multi-city management contract designed to achieve financial viability in the participating water 
utilities.  The MWWP targets the same cities as this project with the addition of the city of Fier.  The 
private operator introduced under the MWWP will be responsible for the sustainable operation of the 
proposed constructed treatment wetlands.
2.  Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1 Background
The Albanian coastal region contains two geographic entities: the Adriatic and the Ionian Sea coastal 
areas.
The total length of coastline is about 429 km and the national waters confined to territorial waters 
of 12 miles width. The continental shelf lies entirely within the exclusive zone. The shelf is wider in the 
north (Adriatic sea), up to 25 miles across, and narrower in the south (Ionian sea), 2-3 miles width. 
Beyond 25 miles, sea depth exceeds 1000 m in the international channel.
Wind patterns are variable in the coastal plain. In winter, the most frequent one blows from the Southeast 
and in the summer season, the prevailing wind blows from the north-western direction.  There are three 
types of rather weak currents in the Adriatic sea: continuous currents, tidal currents, and wind-driven 
currents. Strong winds persisting for a couple of days may create temporary currents running in the 
opposite direction to steady and tidal currents.
The Adriatic coastal area (the northern part of the Albanian coast) is generally characterised by coastal 
lowlands (alluvial plains) intersected by rivers, and flanked by hills along its upland boundary. The coast 
is made of long sandy beaches, deltaic river mouths and lagoons. The coastal waters are shallow, 
receiving water from the rivers and several drainage canals. At sea, the water depth increases slowly, 
with first a sandy bottom with the associated biocenosis which becomes muddy with increasing depth.
On the sandy or muddy bottoms, the marine flora is scarce or occupies specific areas where currents or 
waves have less action.  
The extensive seagrass beds of 
Posidonia oceanica
 are an important part of the 
Albanian marine ecosystem, often occupying a considerable part of the littoral zone. 
Posidonia oceanica 
and very well developed marine communities are found along Porto Romano bay and Shengjini bay 
(adjacent to the Kune-Vain marshland)
.  
The underwater rocky bottoms at Rodoni and Lagji Capes 
(Durres), and the eastern side of Vlora bay host patches of 
Posidonia oceanica
.
- 4 -
Page  5
2.2  Main Sector Issues
Water pollution is mainly generated by an increasing population  concentrated along the Adriatic 
coastline.  It has caused considerable deterioration of the natural inland ecosystems and the biological 
productivity of the coastal areas of Albania.  This in turn is a serious threat to the biological diversity and 
productivity of the natural habitats of the coastal wetlands, rivers and sea, as well as a potential risk to 
public health.  Indeed, in all towns sewage waters are discharged without any treatment, directly into 
rivers or drainage canals, that in turn convey the untreated sewage directly into tidal marshlands or to the 
nearby marine coastal zone.
The Government of Albania is facing one of the most challenging tasks in comprehensive water 
management, dealing with water quality and ecological issues in estuaries and coastal waters and 
therefore has decided to give particular priority to addressing the issues of  wastewater management in 
three coastal cities of Durres, Lezha and Saranda, and to improving the management of important natural 
reserves, in order to protect the habitats of endangered species along the coastline of Albania.
2.3  Government Strategy 
The Government of Albania recently endorsed the updating of the National Environmental Action Plan 
(NEAP).  The general objectives of the overall updating of the NEAP are aimed at identifying key 
environmental 
problems, 
setting 
priorities 
and 
helping 
to 
develop 
a 
comprehensive 
national 
environmental policy on the basis of a participatory approach.
The key environmental issues identified by the NEAP are:
surface  water  contamination,  due  to  the  lack  of  proper  wastewater  treatment  and  discharges  of 
\01
untreated industrial and domestic wastewater;
loss  of  biodiversity  caused  by  lack  of  proper  management  of  natural  resources  (parks,  forests, 
\01
protected areas, coastal resources, etc.);
soil erosion in terraced hillsides and in grazing areas, as well as deforestation due to uncontrolled 
\01
cutting of trees for heating supplies;
emissions of toxic gases and particulate from power plants and industrial facilities
\01
In order to develop an environmental management policy it was recognized that the following areas of 
intervention are key for the Government of Albania:
restructuring economic incentives to encourage and improved, efficient resource utilization;
\01
preparing  environmental  legislation,  including  general  and  specific  laws,  and  regulations  on  the 
\01
protection of the environment;
institutional  strengthening  of  the  Albanian  environmental  authorities  and  line  ministries  and 
\01
institutions, both at central and local level;
developing strategies to reduce the adverse effects of soil erosion and deforestation;
\01
developing strategies to improve water management and reduce water pollution problems;
\01
developing strategies to improve coastal zone and natural resource management;
\01
developing  strategies  for  the  dissemination  of  environmental  information  to  increase  public 
\01
awareness.
Within  this  overall  framework  the  Ministry  of  Environment  has  identified  priority  actions  that  can 
significantly  and  rapidly  contribute  to  the  protection  of  the  environment  and  control  of  impacts.   
- 5 -
Page  6
Specifically the measures will be aimed at:  (i) developing institutional and regulatory framework in line 
with  work  already  progressing  on  institutional  and  legislative  framework;  (ii)  strengthening  the 
institutions responsible for the environment;  (iii) evaluating and identifying economic instruments to be 
implemented  in  the  field  of  environmental  protection  and  impact  mitigation;    (iv)  assessing  and 
mitigating  pollution  at  severe  environmental  hot  spots;  (v)  developing  demonstration  projects  on 
mitigation  of  of  soil  pollution  from  chemicals  and  on  natural  resources  management  against 
deforestation; and (vi) developing proposed public awareness actions, at both central and local level.
3.  
Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
:
The  Integrated  Water  and  Ecosystem  Management  Project  will  extend  and  deepen  the  ongoing 
Government  actions  in  the  environmental  sector.    The  key  strategic  choices  made  during  project 
preparation were to:  
Link the project with the currently ongoing Bank financed Municipal Water and Wastewater Project. 
\01
The project will provide the water utilities of three of the cities targeted by the MWWP with low cost 
wastewater  treatment  facilities.    The  private  operator  recruited  under  the  MWWP  will  be 
instrumental to develop capacity in the water utilities to use this environmental friendly wastewater 
treatment technology.  It is expected that this will contribute to the introduction of environmentally 
sustainable wastewater treatment technology in other cities in the region.  Furthermore, in order to 
guarantee continuity between the two projects and optimization of resources a common PIU has been 
established.
Address  environmental  issues  in  water  sector  reform  by  integrating  close-to-nature  wastewater 
\01
treatment options with management and monitoring of areas with globally important biodiversity.
In 
the present economic situation with an underdeveloped civil society, lacking a politically active and 
environmental conscious  elite to actively steer  the country toward an  environmentally conscious 
development, it is unlikely that nature conservation will be sufficiently promoted in the near future. 
Therefore it is important that present and future coastal zones and wetland conservation programs in 
parallel  with  sanitation  measures  lay  the  ground  for  decentralized  and  financially  self  sufficient 
management units with a strong involvement of local civil society.  In this context, the project will 
explore the possibility of introducing an innovative management scheme for Albanian wetlands by 
building  upon  previous  studies  such  as  the  EU  PHARE  financed  Karavasta  Lagoon  –  Wetland 
Management  Project.  If  successfully  implemented,  this  should  provide  a  model,  which  can  be 
adapted to particular requirements of other Albanian wetlands and sanitation needs. 
Address broad environment sector reform issues by including a component for TA to improve the 
\01
management of natural Reserves.  This in turn will develop opportunities for promoting protected 
areas management and sustainable use of natural resources that is politically and financially justified 
and socially sustainable.
Build national, regional and local capacity in assisting the Government in meeting its international 
\01
obligations on transboundary pollution and biodiversity conservation.
C.  Project Description Summary
1.  Project components
(see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost 
breakdown):
 The project will assist the Government of Albania to: (i) reduce sewage pollution loads generated by the 
- 6 -
Page  7
three coastal cities of Durres, Lezha and Saranda through the development and establishment of 
environmentally-beneficial low cost wastewater treatment technologies; (ii) improve environmental 
management and monitoring; (iii)  promote nutrient reduction investments in other parts of Albania and 
neighboring countries; and (iv) Project Management
Component
Indicative
Costs
(US$M)
% of 
Total
Bank
financing
(US$M)
% of
Bank
financing
GEF
financing 
(US$M)
% of
GEF
financing
1.  Sewage Pollution Reduction
9.40
86.3
0.00
0.0
4.38
89.9
2.  Environmental Management and Monitoring
1.20
11.0
0.00
0.0
0.20
4.1
3.  Replication Promotion
0.20
1.8
0.00
0.0
0.20
4.1
4.  Project Management
0.09
0.8
0.00
0.0
0.09
1.8
Total Project Costs
10.89
100.0
0.00
0.0
4.87
100.0
Total Financing Required
10.89
100.0
0.00
0.0
4.87
100.0
Component 1:  Sewage Pollution Reduction (Total: US$9.40 million; GEF: US$4.38 million,  Other 
Donors (TBC): US$4.30 million,  GoA: US$0.72 million).  
 This component represents an innovative 
aspect of the proposed project and, if successful,  has an high replication value throughout Albania and 
the region.  The component consists of two main parts: (i) the establishment of Constructed Treatment 
Wetlands and related facilities;  and (ii) the construction of the sewage main collectors required to 
connect the current sewerage systems to the new treatment facilities.
The GEF funds will support the creation of 92 ha of Constructed Treatment Wetlands (CTWs) in three 
already identified sites in proximity of the urban areas of Durres, Lezha and Saranda.  Mechanisms that 
occur in these ecosystems (sedimentation, adsorption, flocculation, precipitation and biological 
decomposition) decrease the concentration of polluting substances flowing through the wetlands and 
reduce the impact of untreated wastewaters of urban origin on the international waterways and coastal 
marshlands.  The artificial wetlands offer the opportunity to realize a low cost wastewater treatment 
systems that rely on natural processes and reduce the need for energy supply.  The evaluation of 
alternatives has been carried out through a multicriteria approach that included:  environmental impacts, 
project costs, local conditions, institutional framework, training and monitoring requirements, hydro 
geological and health risks.  Specifically the funds will enable the construction works for the three 
facilities. The construction works will include civil works, equipment and construction of infrastructure 
which will regulate water flows through the wetlands - allowing for controlled flooding that optimize 
nutrient trapping and biodiversity restoration.
Financial support from other donors has been identified and will be confirmed before appraisal.  It will 
finance activities related to the construction of sewage collectors to connect the sewerage outflows of the 
three urban areas of Durres, Lezhe and Saranda to the constructed treatment wetlands.  The construction 
of those sewerage infrastructures will halt the uncontrolled sewage discharge directly into the coastal 
lagoon systems that is currently occurring and constitutes the most relevant threat for the survival of the 
globally important coastal marine ecosystem and tidal marshlands.
The Government of Albania will contribute with the availability of the lands needed for the 
establishment of the CTWs.
Component 2:  Environmental Management and Monitoring (Total: US$1.2 million;  GEF: US$0.2 
million, Other Donors (TBC): US$1.0 million). 
 This component represent a valuable opportunity to 
- 7 -
Page  8
provide support in promoting a prototype initiative of environmental management of natural resources to 
be extended in the future to other Albanian Protected Areas.  The component will assist the Ministry of 
Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in enhancing the management of Natural 
Reserves as well as to strengthen the protection of coastal areas involved by intervention works under 
this project.
Specifically the GEF funds will finance a program aimed to enforce an integrated and sustainable 
management of the Kune-Vain wetland and Kenalla lake Protected Areas.  The activities under this 
component are aimed to integrate the conservation of the important tidal marshland with the sustainable 
management of regional tourism and area's natural resources, through an innovative management system.  
The program will address: (i) development of legislative framework for Kune-Vain Managed Area 
(KVMA) implementation; (ii) institutional strengthening for KVMA Management Board and 
Administration; (iii) development of the protected area Management Plan; (iv) implementation of the 
KVMA Management Plan starting with the identified priority measures; and (v) strengthening 
monitoring programs for water quality, biodiversity and socio-economic indicators within the protected 
areas and the coastal zones involved in the project.
Component 3:  Replication Promotion (Total: US$0.2 million;  GEF: US$0.2 million).
This 
component will help to raise awareness in the three cities of Saranda, Durres, and Lezha, on the 
benefits of using Constructed Wetlands as biological wastewater treatments and promote its 
adoption in other areas of Albania or other countries of the Mediterranean region, where existing 
pollution loads are threatening coastal marine ecosystems and natural wetland systems critical for 
globally important biodiversity.
To increasing the sustainability of the project and 
achieve this goal the GEF will finance an 
environmental education and communication program designed to address different stakeholders. 
This will also include:  a) environmental education activities for schools and local communities;  
b) teacher’s training and programs in the fields of Ecology and Environmental Science;
 c) a 
scheme for stakeholder participation in the management of the natural resources of Kune and Vaine;  d) c
oordination with the communication activities undertaken, within the framework of the 
Municipal Water Project, by the private operator and the municipalities
, aimed at building 
consensus on the need to pay for water and sanitation services, and increase informed participation from 
consumers.  
The GEF funds will also finance the dissemination of the project's findings to other cities of the region 
and investigations to expand the project's approach. The proposed project design has a high potential for 
replication in Albania.  Natural wastewater treatment using Constructed Wetlands may become a 
demonstration area for similar projects in Albania as well as other developing countries of the 
Mediterranean region.
Component 4:  Project Management (Total:  US$0.09 million;  GEF: US$0.09 million).
  This 
component will support a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the Ministry of Territorial 
Adjustment and Tourism (MTAT) to coordinate, manage and monitor the activities under the project. 
The project will use the current World Bank Water PIU which is already successfully implementing the 
Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project and the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project.  The PIU 
will have a central office in Durres and significant physical presence in the other cities and will have full 
responsibility for: (i) procurement, financial management and disbursement related to the activities 
funded by the GEF grant; (ii) financial management reporting of overall project; (iii) 
- 8 -
Page  9
monitoring-evaluation and reporting of overall project progress implementation; (iv) coordination with 
central ministries and their regional and local branches.
A detailed description of the components is provided in annex 2.
2.  
Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The  Government  of  Albania  is  investing  considerable  effort  in  developing  laws  and  regulations  to 
address  environmental  issues.    The  environmental  legal  framework  is  covered  by  a  new  Law  "On 
Environmental  Protection"  approved  by  the  Parliament  on  September  2002.    A  draft  Law  "On 
Environment  Impact  Assessment"  is  currently  in  the  Parliament  for  the  final  approval.    Within  the 
existent  institutional  framework  the  overall  responsibility  for  managing  and  monitoring  the  natural 
wetlands and coastal areas lies with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food.  This is regulated by the new “
Protected Area Law
” (n°8906 dated 6/6/2002), and “
Protection of Marine Environment  from Pollution”
(n°8905  dated  6/6/2002).  The  project  will  assist  the  Government  of  Albania  to  strengthen  national, 
regional  and  local  administrations  in  managing  natural  protected  areas  -  such  as  environmental 
management  planning,  increased  management  capacity  and  the  standardization  of  monitoring  and 
reporting procedures. Also, the project will help to improve coordination between the central, regional 
and local governments, local communities and municipalities on the use of natural resources.  It will also 
help to develop processes to better involve the public in the decision-making process not only for project 
activities but also for sustainable resource management and use within natural protected areas.
At the same time the Government of Albania assisted by the Bank and other donors is undertaking an 
ambitious program of economic reforms, promoting a public-private partnership in key infrastructures, 
mainly  in  the  water  supply  and  sanitation  sector.  The  reform  will  lead  to  the  establishment  of  a 
pro-private sector participation (PSP) regulatory and policy framework at the state and municipal level 
and the introduction of a PSP regime beneficial for the poor through the use of a Management Contract 
(MC).  The  reform  also  aims  at  integrating  wastewater  management.  Four  major  metropolitan  areas, 
including Durres, Lezha and Saranda, are involved in the reform process. The presence of the private 
operator that will hand over responsibility in managing water systems in the above mentioned areas will 
enable in turn to establish a proper operation and maintenance of the Constructed Treatment Wetlands to 
be financed through this project.
The Government of Albania has approved the important document “Biodiversity Strategy and Action 
Plan (BSAP)”. This document, granted by  GEF, is an important step for Albania towards implementing 
the 
Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD).
  More recently, in the frame of institutional reform, the 
Directorate of  Management of Albanian Protected Areas was established within the General Directorate 
of  Forests  and  Pasture  (GDFP).    This  Directorate  in  collaboration  with  other  relevant  agencies,  in 
particular with the Unit of Environmental Management Forest Project, is working to implement rules and 
duties regarding management of the Protected Areas in Albania.
The  very  recent  approval  of  the  Law  “
On  Protected  Areas
”  (n°8906,  06/06/2002)  opens  up  new 
interesting opportunities for advanced and integrated management of protected areas, extending all over 
the whole Albanian territory.  Contacts and consultations are at present in progress between the Ministry 
for Environment and the Ministry for Agriculture and Food, in order to define and agree on joint rules 
and procedures for the 
Administration of  Protected Areas in Albania, 
 regulated by  the Duties, Tasks 
and Functions.  The Law “
On Protected Areas
 “ will allow GoA to set up management of protected areas 
by means of a Decree (By-Law act), including the definition of the program  related economic financing 
plan.  The present project is a good opportunity to provide general recommendations and suggestions to 
promote a prototype initiative of environmental management of natural resources, to be extended in the 
- 9 -
Page  10
future to other Albanian Protected Areas.
3.  
Benefits and target population:
At the global level
, benefits will be increased through the reduction of transboundary pollution into the 
Adriatic Sea which  is currently endangering the numerous  species hosted in the coastal and  marine 
environment.  Based on the technical assessment of the nutrient trapping capacity of the constructed 
treatment wetlands to be financed under this project, about 245 tons of Nitrogen and Phosphorous and 
768 tons of BOD5 could be reduced annually.   Significant global biodiversity benefits are expected.  The 
constructed  wetlands  represent  a  new  natural  habitat  for  flora  and  fauna  and  therefore  increase  the 
biodiversity of the area. Also, they represent a continuity corridor with currently existing ecosystems, and 
a buffer zone against the uncontrolled spread of the urbanization.  Specifically the wetlands will have a 
positive impact on:
Endangered  marine  ecosystems  and  habitats
,
  in  medium  and  infralittoral  level  (particularly 
\01
Shengjini-Lezha area, Porto Romano bay and Saranda bay);
Endangered coastal ecosystems: sand dunes, delta rivers (particularly Drini-Lezha), alluvial and wet 
\01
forests, lagoons ( Kune and Vaini) and coastal lakes (Kenalla);
Risks and adverse impacts on biodiversity.  Some of the major adverse impacts have been: habitat 
\01
loss and fragmentation, damage 
(Porto Romano bay and Saranda bay)
 and degradation 
(Kenalla lake)
of habitats and ecosystems, loss of species or the threat of their extinction - i.e. the
 monk seal
 and the 
sea turtle
 ranked by IUCN respectively as critically endangered and endangered, living in the waters 
of Corfu Island, Saranda, Ksamili and Kakome bay; the mouse ear bat, the otter, the ferruginous 
duck, 
the 
pygmy 
cormorant, 
and 
the 
pallid 
harrier 
living 
in 
Kune-Vain 
marshland, 
Durres-Rrushkull-Erzeni River Managed Natural Reserve, Butrinti lake area;
Protection  of  the 
Posidonia  Oceanica
  meadows,  particularly  in  the  Shengjini-  Lezha    and 
\01
Saranda-Ksamili area, but also in the Porto Romano and Lalzi bay.  This in turn will have a positive 
impact in protecting beaches from erosion as well as providing hatchery and nutrients for endangered 
species.
Development  of  some  algae  populations  (
Ulva  and  Enteromorpha
),  particularly  in  Saranda  bay, 
\01
Shengjini bay and Porto Romano bay;
Protection from 
eutrophication
in the Saranda bay, Shengjini area and Kenalla lake;
\01
At the regional level
 the project will have a demonstration impact contributing to creation of additional 
wetlands and protected areas along the coastlines of Albania and neighbouring countries. Additional 
benefits result from sharing experiences with neighbouring countries on the use of constructed wetlands 
for  nutrient  treatment,  and  on  protected  areas  and  wetlands  management.    Also,  the  project  will 
contribute  to  developing  regional  natural  resource  management  strategies  and  regional  eco-tourism 
opportunities.  In addition, at national level there will be progress towards compliance with EU directives 
and enhanced capacity of central, regional and municipal institutions to preserve and manage protected 
areas and wetlands.
At the local level
 the principal beneficiaries from cleaner water resulting from nutrient reduction will be 
Albanians living in the areas affected by the current damaged environment.  In fact the local populations 
will benefit from reduced health risk and odor nuisance from untreated wastewater.  Also, the Albanian 
population  at  large  will  benefit  from  improved  water  quality  suitable  for  environmentally  sound 
recreational use at beaches and coastal areas and wetlands.  In particular the improved water quality at 
beaches  will  contribute  to  Albania's  economic  development  by  laying  the  foundation  for  further 
development of the tourist sector.  Apart from the above mentioned benefits to the general population and 
the population in the area covered by the component (approx. 260,000), the poor will benefit especially 
- 10 -
Page  11
from the improvements because more of them than the average of the population, live close to open 
ditches conveying untreated wastewater.
4.  
Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The outline of the institutional framework to be created for the management of the Kune-Vain Lagoon 
has been agreed with the Ministry of Environment (MOE) and the General Directorate of Forestry and 
Pastures (GDFP).  At present, responsibility for protection and administration of the area lies with the 
GDFP  (under  the  Ministry  for  Agriculture  and  Food).    The  very  recent  approval  of  the  Law  “
On 
Protected  Areas
”  (n°8906,  06/06/2002)  opens  up  opportunities    for  an  advanced  and  integrated 
management of protected areas, Kune-Vain lagoon included.  The Ministry of Environment has drafted a 
decree  in  the  framework  of  the  above  mentioned  law  that  would  transfer  all  “Hunting  Reserves”,   
including  Kune-Vain,  into  “Managed  Reserves”.    The  objective  of  the  Kune-Vain  Managed  Area 
(KVMA) is conservation and sustainable management of the Kune-Vain wetland and the Kenalla lake, 
with  the  goal  of  integrating  the  conservation  of  the  important  bird  habitats  with  the  sustainable 
management of regional tourism and area’s natural resources, through an innovative management system.  
It is expected that the MOE will present the above mentioned decree to the Council of Ministers (CM) by 
February 25, 2003 and CM approval is expected by
March 14, 2003.
A second decree under the law “On Protected Areas”, which is expected to be approved by the CM by 
March  14,  2003  together  with  the  decree  mentioned  above,  will  set  the  framework  for  creating  an 
administrative entity for each “Managed Reserve”.  This decree would allow the MOE and GDFP to 
establish  a  new  administration  and  management  board  for  Kune-Vain.    This  Board  will  include 
representatives 
from 
key 
ministries, 
the 
Districts 
with 
territory 
within 
the 
Area, 
the 
Municipalities/Communes and a formal representation of the users of the KVMA. The KVMA Board 
will be accountable for planning the management of KVMA and for establishing regulations on the use 
of  natural resources.  The area will be separated into different zones with allowable activities defined for 
each zone.  The Management Board will act as a committee responsible for the selection of the most 
suitable Management Plan.
The Management Board will receive TA under the project to prepare the 
Management Plan.  The board will also coordinate definition of tasks, rules, planning processes and 
operational procedures
.
It is proposed that the administrative entity for the KVMA be established under the budget of the General 
Directorate  of  Forestry  and  Pasture.    The  responsibilities  of  the  KVMA  Administration  will  be  to 
introduce the new participatory protected area planning approach to the site, to build capacity within 
local user groups and other stakeholders to implement protect activities, and to undertake monitoring and 
regulatory functions.  These responsibilities will be identified in the Management Plan which will be 
prepared under the Project.
Consultations  are  at  present  in  progress  between  the  Ministry  of  Environment  and  the  Ministry  for 
Agriculture and Food in order to define and agree on joint rules and procedures for the Administration of  
Protected Areas in Albania.  Also under discussion between the MoE and the General Directorate of 
Forest and Pasture is the possibility to immediately stop the hunting in the area of Kune-Vain.
The overall coordination of the GEF funded Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management component 
will be carried out by the Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism in close cooperation with the 
Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The management of this component 
will be entrusted to the existing Water PIU under the Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism.  In 
order to cover the non-engineering aspects of this project, the PIU will be strengthened by recruiting a 
biologist/environmental engineer.  The existing Water PIU will be responsible also for the financial 
- 11 -
Page  12
management and the procurement under the project.
The GEF grant will be forwarded by the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Territorial Adjustment 
and Tourism.  The works and goods procured under this component will be handed over to the 
General 
Directorate of Forestry & Pastures (GDFP), the General Directorate of Fisheries (GDF)
 and the Ministry 
of Environment for ecosystem management and monitoring, and for the CTWs to the water utilities.
The 
General Directorate of Forestry & Pastures (GDFP) and General Directorate of Fisheries (GDF)
 will 
provide the Bank with annual monitoring and evaluation reports regarding the achievements under this 
component.  In addition the operator of the CTWs will conduct self-monitoring of the CTWs.
D.  Project Rationale
1.  
Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
During project preparation various design alternatives were considered and evaluated. These include: 
CTW  versus  Conventional  Wastewater  Treatment  Systems:
    The  option  of  conventional  wastewater 
treatment plants was considered.  This proved to be unaffordable by the Government of Albania in its 
current  economic  situation.    The  preferred  alternative,  constructed  treatment  wetlands  require 
significantly lower construction and maintenance costs than wastewater treatment plants and thus offers 
the opportunity to create a low cost municipal wastewater treatment system relying on natural processes 
and reducing to the minimum the operational need for mechanical devices and energy supply.
This  will  also  contribute  to  lower  operation  costs  for  the  water  utilities,  making  the  process  more 
affordable for all the other utilities that will want to follow the example of the present project.  Moreover, 
constructed wetlands represent an additional natural habitat for globally endangered species as well as a 
continuity  corridor  toward  already  existing  ecosystems  contributing  to  generate  additional  global 
benefits.  Also it is pointed out that constructed wetlands are not unable to coexist with conventional 
wastewater treatment systems since they are widely used as tertiary stages of complete sewage treatment 
systems.  The flexibility they have in easily adapting layout and hydraulic characteristics will allow the 
integration of the wetlands as part of a more complex and effective solution for future development.
Selection  of Sites:
   The  sites  selected for  the  establishment  of the  Constructed  Treatment Wetlands 
(CTW) have been carefully considered through a process of public consultation that has involved local 
authorities, local communities, civil society and sector ministries.  In consultation with the Ministry of 
Environment specific criteria were established and each alternative site weighed according those criteria.  
Criteria included: potential nutrient reduction capacity, land availability, distance from built-up areas, 
adequacy of the site in terms of present and future needs, absence of physical constraints and proximity 
to sites for discharging treated water.  Other sites, initially considered to be included in this project, were 
not selected due to the lack of potential generation of global benefits, conflicts over land use or technical 
implementation difficulties. 
- 12 -
Page  13
2.  Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, 
ongoing and planned).
Sector Issue
Project 
Latest Supervision
(PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Bank-financed
Implementation 
Progress (IP)
Development
Objective (DO)
Water and Sanitation
Water Supply Urgent 
Rehabilitation Project. 
S
S
Municipal Water and 
Wastewater Project.
S
S
Biodiversity
(GEF, World Bank) Albania 
Biodiversity Enabling Activity
Completed
Other development agencies
Wetland Conservation
Conservation of Wetland and 
Coastal Ecosystems in the 
Mediterranean Region (GEF, 
UNDP Regional Project)
Ongoing
Capacity building
Strategic Action Program for 
the Mediterranean Sea (GEF, 
UNDP Regional Project)
Ongoing
IP/DO Ratings:  HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3.  
Lessons learned and reflected in 
the project design:
Project  design  reflects  the  Bank’s  experience  in  the  preparation  and  implementation  of  water  and 
ecosystem management programs in Europe and around the world.  Some of the critical lessons learned 
and applied in this Project's preparation recommend that:
The  early  involvement  in  project  concept  design  of  key  stakeholders  from  across  the  water, 
\01
agriculture and environment sector as well as of local communities is essential in order to ensure 
ownership, build lasting commitment and achieve successful project implementation.  A participatory 
approach has been implemented through a process of consultation that has represented an innovative 
avenue  to arrive  to common  understanding of  the issues  related to  wastewater management  and 
environmental protection.  This approach has, in turn, broadened the public consensus and helped in 
selecting the most socially/politically/environmentally acceptable sites for the construction of the 
wetlands in the three cities as well as promoting dialogue within the authorities for the management 
of the natural protected areas.
The  rationale,  benefits  and  objectives  of  the  project  should  be  made  known  to  all  stakeholders 
\01
through effective public awareness programs.  The benefits of sustainable wastewater treatment need 
- 13 -
Page  14
to be demonstrated and the results widely disseminated.
Maintaining support from central government working with the Ministry of Territorial Adjustment 
\01
and  Tourism,  Ministry  of  Environment  and  Ministry  of  Agriculture  and  Food,  but  emphasizing 
decentralized  responsibility  for  financial  and  local  project  management  (for  both  CTWs  and 
Kune-Vain Managed Area) helps to build local ownership and sustainability of project activities.
The  project  needs  to  focus  on  activities  which  promote  replication,  sustainability  and  resource 
\01
mobilization beyond the life of the project.  The replication of the project will be highly encouraged 
extending  the  analysis  to  other  potential  sites  suitable  for  wetlands  construction,  to  reduce 
wastewater effluent problems.  The project will help to promote and eventually expand the use of 
CTWs in areas where existing pollution loads are threatening ecosystems critical for biodiversity.
4.  
Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
The Government through the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism, 
the Ministry of Environment, the General Directorate of Forestry and Pastures and the water utilities and 
municipalities of Durres, Lezha and Saranda have all indicated their full support of the project objectives. 
To this end the above mentioned stakeholders have taken the following actions:
Law  "On  Environmental  Protection"  (2002),  Draft  Law  "On  Environment  Impact  Assessment", 
\01
Protected Areas Law (2002), Protection of Marine Environment from Pollution (2002).
The Ministry of Environment has drafted a decree that would transfer all "Hunting Reserves" into 
\01
"Managed Reserves".  It is expected that the decree will be presented to the Council of Ministers at 
the end of February.
The Ministry of Environment has prepared a decree to be submitted to the Council of Ministers in 
\01
order to set the framework for creating an administrative entity for each "Managed Reserve".  It is 
expected that the above mentioned decree will be approved by the end of March.
Consultations are in progress between the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture 
\01
and Food in order to achieve an immediate stop  to hunting in the area of Kune-Vain.
The  Executive  Committee  has  awarded  an  incentive  based  multi  city  management  contract  to  a 
\01
private operator.  This will improve water supply and sanitation services and achieve sustainability in 
the participating water utilities.
All the participating utilities have agreed to take over the accountability for the management of 
\01
constructed treatment wetlands.
All the municipalities have agreed to a substantial tariff increase for water supply services and have 
\01
introduced of a wastewater tariff.
The Government has a strong commitment to necessary sector reform and has requested the Bank's 
\01
assistance for developing a comprehensive National Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy and Water 
Sector Action Plan.
5.  
Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
The design of the proposed project has been tailored to support sector reforms, while responding to the 
constraints in Albania. It is quite innovative in its approach and brings into fruition the sector expertise 
that the Bank has accumulated in Albania and other developing countries. In particular the Bank has:
broad international experience in integrated water and ecosystem management;
\01
the experience to coordinate closely with other donors and mobilize additional sources of funds; and
\01
policy development expertise and experience in the design of institutional reforms in the water and 
\01
sanitation sector.
- 14 -
Page  15
E.  Summary Project Analysis 
(Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1.  Economic (see Annex 4):
Cost benefit
Cost effectiveness
Incremental Cost
Other (specify)
 NPV=US$
million;
ERR =
%  (see Annex 4)
The objective of the project is to reduce the sewage pollution load from the three cities of Durres, Lezha 
and Saranda in order to protect and improve the environmental conditions of coastal and marine habitats. 
The great part of the considered ecosystems have been ranked at international level according with the 
Ramsar convention. The project deals in particular with creating constructed wetlands for wastewater 
treatment. These activities have been associated with the wildlife management  measures to be adopted in 
some significant ecosystems (e.g. Kune-Vain natural reserve).
Two economic analysis have been carried out to demonstrate that this project is a worthwhile investment 
to  be  funded  by  the  Global  Environmental  Facility:  (i)  an  Incremental  cost  analysis  and  (ii)  a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.
The first analysis utilizes the typical incremental cost assessment approach.  The without-project scenario 
can be summarized as follows:
Water pollution, mainly generated by the increasing population concentrated along the Adriatic coastline, 
has considerably degraded the natural inland ecosystems and the biological productivity of the coastal 
areas.  This in turn represents a serious threat to the biological diversity of the natural habitats of the 
coastal wetlands, rivers and sea water, as well as a potential risk to public health.  Albania lacks any 
wastewater treatment facility and existing raw sewage outfalls are located either directly on the seacoast, 
on the bank of coastal rivers or on drainage ditches that after a short distance discharge directly into 
globally significant tidal marshlands and/or the sea.
In the context of the described baseline scenario there are no current financial resources allocated by the 
Government of Albania to create wastewater treatment facilities to reduce the pollution load of the global 
ecosystem and therefore the incremental cost of achieving global benefits has been estimated equal to the 
project cost of US$10.89 million.
GEF
Other 
Donors
GoA
Total
Sewage Pollution Reduction
4,380,000
4,300,000
720,000
9,400,000
Environmental 
Management 
and 
Monitoring
200,000
1,000,000
1,200,000
Replication Promotion
200,000
200,000
Project Management
90,000
90,000
Total 
4,870,000
5,300,000
720,000
10,890,000
The expected outputs and the global benefits:
(i) Reduced sewage pollution load (Durres, Lezhe), and prevent pollution of Saranda bay and 
surrounding beach areas;
(ii) Protection of endangered marine ecosystem biodiversity (and the associated endangered species) in 
- 15 -
Page  16
the marine environment (Saranda bay, Porto Romano and Lalzi bay);
(iii) Habitat restoration and increase of biodiversity (Rrushkull-Erzeni area);
(iv) Restoration of tidal marshlands currently polluted by untreated sewage and preventing further 
reduction of biodiversity in the tidal marshland and protecting and increasing the habitat for endangered 
water birds and other species.
The  second  analysis  compares  the  cost-effectiveness  ratios  of  removing  nitrogen  and  phosphorous 
flowing in the Adriatic sea, defined as the ratio of cost (capital and operational and maintenance cost ) to 
the volume of nitrogen and phosphorous removed during the life of the project ( a period of 20 years has 
been  assumed).  The  estimates  of  cost-effectiveness  ratios  are  presented  in  the  table  below.  The 
cost-effectiveness ratios, based on the assumption presented in Annex 11, were found to be in the order 
of US$2.5-1.0 per kilogram of nitrogen removed and US$ 9.2-3.8 per kilogram of phosphorous removed.  
Since the cost per kilogram of nutrient removed for this project are expected to be lower compared to the 
costs  born  in  similar  projects  in  the  region,
it  is  safe  to  say  that  the  CTW  construction  will  be 
highly-effective for pollution reduction in the Adriatic sea. 
Volume of nutrient removed for 1° year operation (2004) and 20° year operation (2023) 
Coastal 
cities
Referenc
e
Year
CTW
operation
Estimate 
population 
Volume of nutrient removed
(tons/years)
NitrogenPhosphorus
Durres
2004
150,000
87.5024.50
2023
250,000
276.0077.00
Lezhe
2004
18,000
10.502.90
2023
30,000
31.508.80
Saranda
2004
30,000
17.504.90
2023
60,000
65.5018.00
Cost-effectiveness during the life of the project (20 year operation from 2004 to  2023)
Durres
Lezhe
Saranda
Incremental effects
Total Nutrient removed in 20 years operation:
                           -(Nitrogen/N) (20 years/ton)
Tons
3,550
411
808
                           -(Phosphorus/Ph) (20 years/ton)
Tons
991
114
223
Abatement costs
Total incremental costs (capital and O&M cost)
US$
5,663,000
1,057,000
858,000
Abatement costs ton/Nitrogen
US$ per Tons
1,595
2,575
1,061
Abatement costs ton/Phosphorus
US$ per Tons
5,712
9,244
3,846
Cost Benefit
The technical analysis of EIRR clearly shows that Durres, Lezha and Saranda are highly acceptable. The 
same conclusion can be made using ENPV as a yardstick.  The sensitivity analysis stresses that the value 
- 16 -
Page  17
increase and the number of properties affected are the main determining variables in the project 
outcomes. Significant alterations in project benefits and initial investments can be made for Durres and 
Saranda without losing the objective of minimal ten percent EIRR, however, this extreme flexibility in 
project benefits and investments does not hold for Lezha.
As said, the economic analysis only includes benefits at a local level and significant positive externalities 
of the projects are foreseen in terms of global environmental benefits. The most important project benefit 
is the increase in the value of real estate and as such the project is aligned with the notion that improved 
water supply and sanitation are basic requirement for a sound and stable economic development of the 
country as underpinned in the next  section.
In summary, it can be said that the local economic benefits equal the local environmental benefits. The 
regional, national and global environmental benefits are thus not included. The present calculation gives 
only an impression of the significant environmental global benefits obtained with this project. 
Cost-benefits
Durres
Lezhe
Saranda
eIRR (%)
21%
17%
32%
Sensitivity of  eIRR
Very robust
Robust
Very robust
2.  
Financial
 (see Annex 4 and Annex 5): 
NPV=US$
million; FRR =
 %  (see Annex 4)  
In terms of financial viability the project has to be seen as an integral part of the recently Bank approved 
Municipal  Water  and  Wastewater  Project  (MWWP).    The  above  mentioned  project  is  designed  to 
introduce in Albania a new incentive based multi city management contract to improve water supply and 
sanitation services and achieve financial viability in the participating water utilities.  The wastewater 
treatment facilities to be financed through the present GEF operation will be operated and maintained by 
the water utilities targeted under the MWWP.  This in turn will provide the sufficient soundness to make 
this project affordable.  The current situation shows that the four water companies are financially in poor 
conditions, with working ratios between 1.4 and 2.6.  The major financial problems in the four water 
companies are caused by extremely low water tariffs and no existing sewerage tariffs, these are made 
worse by especially low collection rates, combined with high operational and maintenance cost.  Increase 
of collection rates, tariff increases and a change in the tariff structure will be necessary to turn the four 
companies  into  financially  viable  autonomous  entities.    These  are  essential  if  the  companies  are  to 
recover  the  increasing  operational  and  maintenance  costs  for  the  provision  of  water  and  sanitation 
services and to contribute counterpart funds for investments.  Due to the current financial situation of all 
four water utilities, an immediate revenue increase leading to full cost recovery in the first year of project 
implementation is not achievable.  The draft financial analysis indicates that full cost recovery cannot be 
achieved before year three of implementation.  The financial gap at the beginning of the project has to be 
bridged by declining state subsidies.
Fiscal Impact:
- 17 -
Page  18
3.  
Technical:
The technical challenge is to design constructed treatment wetlands that maximize the positive impact on 
globally  important  biodiversity  by  at  the  same  time  minimizing  investment  and  operation  costs.    In 
addition a detail management enhancement concept for the natural wetlands will be developed during 
project preparation. 
4.  
Institutional:
4.1  
Executing agencies:
The proposed project will be implemented jointly by the four water utilities and the Ministry of Public 
Works and Tourism. 
4.2  
Project management:
This component will be implemented by the Ministry of Public Works and Tourism in close cooperation 
with the Ministry of Food and Agriculture and the Ministry of Environment. The existing World Bank 
Water PIU will be the implementing agency.
4.3  
Procurement issues:
The  Ministry  of  Public  Works  and  Tourism  will  use  the  existing  World  Bank  Water  PIU  as  the 
implementing  agency.    The  staff  from  the  Ministry  of  Food  and  Agriculture  and  the  Ministry  of 
Environment will be participating in writing Terms of Reference, evaluation of technical proposals and 
supervision of environmental management and monitoring activities.  All other tasks will be carried out 
by the procurement experienced PIU staff.  Therefore no major issues that requires special attention are 
anticipated.
4.4  
Financial management issues:
The  PIU  implementing  the  Water  Supply  Urgent  Rehabilitation  Project  (WSURP)  will  be  also 
responsible for the financial management of the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project (MWWP) by 
integrating the function of the CMU and Pilot RWSA into the PIU.
The implementation of the MWWP under the same PIU will allow the establishment of the financial 
management system for this new project  on the computerized system currently in use by the WSURP. In 
other words, there will be a centralization of the financial management system within the same PIU that 
will create synergy by sharing the same software, capitalizing on the skills of the accountant but although 
maintaining the financial management systems of the two components separated.
The  financial  management  arrangements  for  the  WSURP  are  based  on  a  computerized  system  of 
accounting. This system has been implemented with the assistance of a consulting firm that has also 
trained the accountant in the use of the system and of the financial management requirements of the 
Bank. Since the beginning of the project, the accountant has significantly improved her skills and is now 
handling all the accounting and disbursement transactions.
Based on this system, the PIU will open two Special Accounts for the MWWP. One for IDA funds 
(Management Contract and Rural Pilot Components) and the other for the GEF funds (GEF Project).
Prior to appraisal the existing computerized system within the PIU will need to be customized - with the 
assistance of a consulting firm - adapting the Chart of Accounts and the reporting, to the components of 
- 18 -
Page  19
the MWWP. The peculiarities for these three components will be:
Management contract component
: Each of the participating water utilities will have to establish a 
\01
sound financial management system and the PIU/CMU, in addition of managing the Special Account 
and project funds, will be responsible for managing the Revenue Account for each water utility. 
GEF  Project
:  The PIU  will open  a separate  Special Account  for the  funds disbursed  under this 
\01
project.
5.  
Environmental:
Environmental Category: 
B (Partial Assessment)
5.1  
Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including 
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project will finance the construction of low cost ecologically based wastewater treatment 
technologies, with the major environmental objective to reduce the amount of nutrients discharged into 
the Adriatic sea; making the project environmentally beneficial. The project will address global benefits 
by reducing pollution in coastal areas and protecting the marine ecosystem from destruction.
Apart from earth embankments for the constructed treatment wetlands and earth dykes planned to protect 
the CTW from the floods, no new physical structures of significant size will be built and no major 
adverse environmental impacts are expected.  Nonetheless, potential negative environmental impacts are 
expected to be localized or able to be mitigated.  Given the nature of the CTW’s work, the project has 
been classified as Environmental Category “B”.  In accordance with the Bank policy on Environmental 
Assessment, the Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism in collaboration with the Ministry of 
Environment is currently carrying out the Environmental Impact Assessment of the project.  A 
combination of quantitative and qualitative assessment techniques (ranging from desk-based analysis, to 
water and social survey ) have been undertaken. The EA will reflect the environmental guidelines and 
standards of IDA since such standard are not enacted yet in Albania. A detailed legislation and guideline 
for Environmental Impact Assessment is under discussion in the Parliament, and is expected to be 
approved by next year.  The EIA will describe existing environmental conditions at the three project sites 
(including climate, hydrology, soil and water quality, groundwater and biodiversity) and assess the 
potential impacts on these conditions from implementation of the project, during the construction and 
operation phases.
An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) will be prepared to identify mitigation measures and 
monitoring activities that will address potential impacts and therefore provide an adequate safeguard for 
environment.  The EIA will analyze whether the proposed activities are in compliance with the 
environmental requirements of both the Government of Albania and the Bank with the respect to 
restoration developments of this nature.
5.2  What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) will be prepared prior to appraisal.  The EMP will include 
monitoring  and  mitigation  activities  for  the  three  constructed  treatment  wetlands  during  project 
preparation and implementation. The EMP will include: (i) a contingency plan to address problems that 
could develop during facilities' construction and operation. The contingency plan will include measures 
for determining and remediating nuisance conditions, addressing any toxicity observed in the wetland, 
and  dealing with  construction, or  operational errors,  or unpredictable  events; (ii)  establishment of  a 
comprehensive 
monitoring 
program 
for 
potential 
dangers 
to 
the 
wetland 
ecosystem, 
such 
as 
bioaccumulation, avian botulism and other avian diseases, vector problems, invasion of non-native plants 
and animals, debris accumulation, and nuisance conditions; (iii) guidelines for sustainable management 
of the water regimes in the wetlands, such as procedures in the event of accidental pollution, floods, 
provision of optimal treatment capacity; (iv) soils removal and selection of suitable landfills for waste 
disposal from the construction phase; (v) evaluation of flooding risks and implications for ground water 
- 19 -
Page  20
protection; (vi) environmental management guidelines for contractors; and (vii) procedures for sludge 
removal and disposal.
5.3  For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
March 7, 2003
An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for this project is currently under preparation and will be 
finalized prior to appraisal.  It will be reviewed and commented on by the ECA Safeguard Compliance 
Unit.
5.4  How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA 
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan?  Describe 
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The preparation of this project built first on the social assessment that was carried out for the Municipal 
Water and Wastewater Project and included focus group meetings and a stakeholder workshops.  In 
addition 
a 
public 
consultation 
process 
involving 
central 
and 
local 
authorities, 
municipalities, 
communities affected by the project, NGOs and local environmental specialists is currently on-going.  As 
described in other part of this document the participatory approach involves all the above mentioned 
stakeholders.  The aim is to increase awareness of environmental issues and build public consensus to 
help 
selecting  the  most  environmentally  acceptable  solutions/sites  for  the  construction  of  the 
wetland in proximity of the three cities.
Also it is expected that consultation with beneficiaries will be on a continuous basis during project 
implementation  through  public  relations  campaigns  conducted  by  the  private  operator  under  the 
Municipal Water and Wastewater Project.
The draft EMP will be distributed to relevant government bodies, institutions and NGOs. To facilitate 
access of the EMP, copies will be distributed to local municipalities for public review and a newspaper 
announcement will be made to inform about the key issues and the availability of the draft EMPF.
5.5  What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the 
environment?  Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Environmental indicators will be monitored annually and obligations for implementation in accordance 
with the 1993 Law on Environmental Protection and OP 4.01 will be included in the contract with the 
private operator. Most likely, consultants (or NGOs) will be engaged to monitor project implementation 
and conduct periodic environmental audit.
6.  
Social:
6.1  
Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social 
development outcomes.
Environmental problems in Albania, like in most other transition countries, still take a secondary 
place in the order of priorities. The GEF-Integrated Water and Ecosystem Management Project, 
by  reducing  land-based  pollution  from  the  three  cities  of  Saranda,  Lezhe  and  Durres  and 
introducing low cost ecologically based wastewater treatment technologies to protect, restore and 
enlarge endangered coastal and marine habitats would put forward the idea of environmental 
protection as a public good with significant social (health), and economic (eco-tourism) effects. 
Thus the rationale behind using constructed wetlands for natural wastewater treatment should be 
well communicated to and understood by the authorities and the public at large, since the long 
term effects of environment-related activities affect the entire population.
- 20 -
Page  21
A needs assessment was carried out to analyze the knowledge, attitudes, practices, and barriers to change 
the views of all relevant stakeholders
. This involved segmenting audiences based on their position, 
understanding actors’ interests and framing the issues. This assessment helped design a public 
consultation program and set the agenda for the discussion on the project activities.
The sanitary and environmental conditions of the communities living near the Chukka channel in 
Saranda,  and  those  living  by  the  open-air  sewerage  canal  in  Durres  are  very  poor.  The 
communities showed interest as they found out that the living conditions might improve as a 
result of the project. In Durres the project will produce visible and tangible benefits in their 
livelihood as the channel will be dried and the waste water redirected. A random sample of 
inhabitants  interviewed  welcomed  the  initiative.  Those  inhabitants,  mostly  coming  from  the 
Kosovo area, established their residence in an area, which belongs to the Ministry of Agriculture,  
thus raising issues of land ownership.
In  Saranda  the  Chukka  channel  community,  comprised  of  several  ethnic  groups  including 
Albanians,  Greeks  and  Gypsies  lives  in  very  difficult  conditions,  in  proximity  to  a  natural 
wetland that provides potable water to the households and it does not get access to any public 
service of the city of Saranda. The main concern of the community leaders was the proximity of 
one of the proposed sites to their village. 
During the communication assessment other issues raised by representatives of local authorities 
were whether the capacity of the CTW would be in line with future population growth and the 
location in compliance with urban development plans; how the problem of mosquito and odor 
control would be handled; and what would be the advantages/disadvantages of investing in a 
constructed  treatment  wetland  system  vis-à-vis  a  conventional  system.  In  Lezha  particular 
concerns  regarded  the    advantages/disadvantages  of  the  selected  alternative;  the  issue  of 
landownership, the lifespan of the selected system as well as the treatment of the sewage waters 
of the commune of Shengjin.
6.2  
Participatory Approach:  How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project is promoting a participatory approach through a process of consultation that will 
represent an innovative avenue to arrive at a common understanding of the issues related to 
wastewater management and environmental protection. This approach will, in turn, broaden the 
public consensus and help selecting the most socially/politically/environmentally acceptable site 
for the construction of the wetland in the three cities as well as promoting dialogue within the 
Management Board for the management of the natural protected areas. Building consensus over 
these issues ultimately will broaden constituencies support for the water sector reform program 
currently  put  in  concrete  form  in  the  National  Water  Supply  and  Sanitation  Strategy  of  the 
Albanian Government. By increasing public awareness on the issue of environmental protection 
and  ecosystem  management,  the  consultations  will  make  a  major  contribution  to  improve 
environmental governance in Albania.
Three separate consultations - structured in two phases - have been held under the auspices of the 
municipalities of Saranda, Lezha and Durres, organized around the following lines: 1) promoting 
the use of man made wetlands for wastewater treatment; 2) promoting a dialogue among public 
institutions and an effective collaborative decision making within the framework of the proposed 
Management Board for the management of the natural protected areas of Lezha; 3) identifying in 
- 21 -
Page  22
a partecipatory manner the main issues of concern and possible areas of improvements.
Participants  in  the  first  phase  included:  a)  local  authorities  (Inspectors  of  the  Ministry  of 
Environment,  General  Directorate of  Forestry  and  Pasture, Municipal  Representatives,  Water 
Utilities) and Albanian experts; b) local communities affected by the project; c) local NGOs and 
environmental 
specialists. 
Participants 
in 
the 
second 
phase 
include 
the 
self-selected 
representatives  from  the  three  groups  and  the  four  level  of  decision  making:
1)Council  of 
Territorial Adjustment, 2) Ministry of Environment, 3) Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and 
Tourism, 4) local municipal authorities.  Furthermore, during the implementation of the project, a 
consultation process will be established to promote dialogue and build consensus between the 
Management  Board  of  the  natural  protected  areas  of  Lezha  and  all  the  other  involved 
stakeholders for the preparation and selection of the most suitable Management Plan for the 
natural protected areas of Lezha.
6.3  
How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society 
organizations?
In addition to the participation of local NGOs, the National network of Environmental NGOs has 
been  involved  in  the  process  in  order  to  guarantee  a  fair  representations  of  the  views  and 
concerns  of  civil  society  organizations.  A  meeting  has  been  convened  by  the  Ministry  of 
Environment, with
authorities from the three cities to discuss issues raised by the members of the 
network and inform the decision making process.
To increase transparency in government/civil society relations the Bank, within the Municipal 
Water and Wastewater Project, is also assisting the MTAT to develop a public communication 
program.  The  policy  dialogue  component  of  the  program  includes  the  creation  of  a  public 
information  system  for  water  and  wastewater  issues  as  a  venue  for  input  and  comment  by 
stakeholders. Specifically, this entails a website, an information point in the Ministry as well as 
in other major cities, support to central public information center,
establishment of a hotline for 
information on water, publicizing of tendering procedures.
6.4  
What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social 
development outcomes?
The Municipal Water and Wastewater Project will establish a Consumer Panel (CP) in each of 
the four cities to enable the population, particularly the poor, to interact directly with 
management about problems and opportunities. The CPs will help channel constructive 
suggestions and feedback of consumers’ specific needs to the utilities. CPs meetings’ 
findings/recommendations about improvement of  service quality, affordability and other issues 
would be communicated to all service users.
6.5  
How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The GEF project will be included in a public opinion research within the Municipal Water and 
Wastewater Project that will be carried out to gauge public perception and understanding of the 
government process, to assess what are the major concerns and priorities of the general public 
regarding the involvement of the private sector in the provision of water services in Albania. This 
will constitute the baseline to establish a Social Impact Monitoring & Evaluation system. 
A series of polling will be carried out throughout the project to evaluate the social impact as well 
as the public acceptance of the new system. In particular these attitudinal surveys will: 1) 
- 22 -
Page  23
identify, evaluate and monitor critical social indicators measuring the social impacts of the 
project; 2) test and value public awareness, support, satisfaction and concerns towards the project 
as well as perceptions of water services linked with health and environment (water quality); 3) 
compare the value of water and wastewater services with other public services (continuity, 
reliability, etc.).
7.  Safeguard Policies:
7.1  Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the project?
Policy
Triggered
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)
Yes
No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)
Yes
No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)
Yes
No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)
Yes
No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)
Yes
No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
Yes
No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)
Yes
No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)
Yes
No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)
Yes
No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)
*
Yes
No
7.2  
Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Environmental  Assessment:
    An  Environmental  Assessment  and  Environmental  Management  Plan 
(EMP) will be completed before project appraisal.
International  Waterways:
    The  Government  of  Albania  will  notify  the  riparian  countries  about  the 
project.
F.  Sustainability and Risks
1.  
Sustainability
:
Key tool to ensure sustainability of the ecosystem management component will be
the development of 
management plans for the protected areas in collaboration with local communities, farmers, and user 
groups.
Financial sustainability has to be secured through state subsidies, tourism and user fees. Ensuring 
political backing at local and central government levels for effective law enforcement in the protected 
areas is key to achieving sustainability.  The private operator responsibility for the operation of the CTW 
will guarantee the sustainability of the operation of the CTWs.
1a. Replicability:
Replication of the project, extending the analysis to other potential sites suitable for the wetland 
construction, to reduce wastewater effluent problems, is highly encouraged.  The project will help to 
promote and eventually expand the use of CTWs in areas where existing pollution loads are threatening 
natural ecosystems critical for biodiversity.  The proposed project has a high potential for replicability in 
Albania.  Natural wastewater treatment using constructed wetlands may become a demonstration area for 
similar projects in Albania as well as other developing countries in the Mediterranean region.  The 
institutional framework created to strengthen the management of Kune-Vain should represent a model to 
be replicated for the creation of new natural protected areas.  The project will fund a
n environmental 
- 23 -
Page  24
education and communication program to build consensus on CTW and ensure the dissemination 
of information in other areas of Albania and Mediterranean countries.
2.  Critical Risks 
(reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk
Risk Rating
Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Lack of continuing commitment from the 
Government of Albania to the project
N
Regarded as low because the Government has 
undertaken significant commitments in the 
environmental sector.  Continuing dialogue on 
the benefits of pollution reduction and natural 
areas protection.
Consumers unwilling/unable to pay for 
water and wastewater services
S
1) Willingness-to-pay study shows that 
willingness-to-pay is high and tariffs are 
affordable
2) Private Operator is expected to launch 
public awareness campaign
3) Metering in combination with adequate tariff 
policy will allow poor customers to reduce 
consumption and pay less
From Components to Outputs
Lack of commitment of local 
communities to protected areas regimes.
M
Comprehensive protected areas Management 
Plan will be prepared following a participatory 
planning approach and mechanisms will be 
established for stakeholders' consultation.  
Strategies will be developed to prepare local 
population for new job opportunities arising 
throughout the project area.
Inadequate resources for management 
and maintenance of CTWs and the 
protected areas.
M
The operation and maintenance of the CTWs 
will be handed over to the water utilities 
involved in the Municipal Water and 
Wastewater Project.  Government of Albania is 
making considerable commitment in addressing 
environmental issues.  Administrations will 
receive support to develop fund-raising plans 
for long-term financial sustainability
Inadequate donor co-financing of project 
activities
S
The project activities to be supported by 
project's cofinanciers will not have bearing on 
the activities supported by the GEF grant, but 
they are an integral part of the project.
Overall Risk Rating
M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 24 -
Page  25
3. 
Possible Controversial Aspects
:
The project is not considered controversial, since the proposed interventions have the support from local 
communities and authorities.  One possible controversial aspect is the potential indirect impact caused by 
the community perception of restricted access to resources in the protected areas.  Both the detailed 
design of the treatment facilities and the development of protected areas management regime will be 
done in close consultation with local stakeholders.  The participatory planning approach that started 
during the preparatory phase will continue during project implementation.
G.  Main 
Conditions
1.  Effectiveness Condition
2.  Other
[classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H.  Readiness for Implementation
1. a)
The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the 
start of project implementation.
1. b)
Not applicable.
2.
The procurement documents for the first 
year's
 activities are complete and ready for the start of 
project implementation
.
3.
The Project 
Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory 
quality.
4.
 The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I.  
Compliance with Bank Policies
1.
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
2.
 The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval.  The project complies 
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Andreas Rohde
Motoo Konishi
Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Team Leader
Sector Manager
Country Director
- 25 -
Page  26
Annex 1:  Project Design Summary
ALBANIA
: 
Intergrated Water & EcoSystems Management GEF
\
Hierarchy of Objectives
Key Performance 
Indicators
Data Collection Strategy
Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:
Sector Indicators:
Sector/ country reports:
(from Goal to Bank Mission)
Improve infrastructure 
\01
and create institutional 
environments conducive 
to infrastructure 
sustainability.
Promote environmental 
\01
sustainability and 
sustainable use of natural 
resources
Framework developed for 
\01
protection of natural 
resources
Enforcement of 
\01
environmental regulations 
improved
Concrete decentralization 
\01
of environmental services 
to local government - 
quantified
Integration of 
\01
environmental 
considerations in sectoral 
policies - number of 
environmental units 
established - effectiveness 
of environmental units
Project Status reports
\01
Project's Implementation 
\01
Completion Report
Country reports
\01
Trained staff available to carry 
out and or supervise necessary 
activities
GEF
 Operational Program:
Outcome / Impact 
Indicators:
The project support the following 
GEF Operational Programs:
Improvement and protection 
of coastal ecosystems  
Project Status Reports
\01
Project's Implementation 
\01
Completion Report
GoA conservation policy on 
protected areas.
No. 2 Coastal, Marine and 
\01
Freshwater Ecosystem
No. 9  Integrated Land and 
\01
Water Multiple Focal Area
No. 10  contaminated-Based
\01
No.12 Integrated Ecosystem 
\01
Management
Integrated management plan 
implemented for Kune-Vaine 
lagoon.
Creation of new freshwater 
ecosystems for globally 
endangered species.
Governmental support to 
discourage untreated wastewater 
discharge. 
Monitoring of natural areas.
Government / community 
monitoring program 
implemented
Effluent leaving CTW - water 
quality improvement. 
Global
 Objective
:
Outcome / Impact 
Indicators:
Project reports:
(from Objective to Goal)
Enhance protection of 
\01
marine ecosystem
Protect and increase the 
\01
Monitoring and evaluation 
\01
of impact on environmental 
transformation
Project Status reports.
\01
Project's Implementation 
\01
Completion report.
GoA conservation policy 
\01
on protected areas
Governmental support to 
\01
- 26 -
Page  27
habitat for endangered 
water flora & fauna 
species of coastal 
marshlands
Restore tidal marshlands 
\01
that is currently polluted 
at unbearable levels by 
untreated sewage
Prevent destruction of the 
\01
tidal marshes from 
sewage discharge
Promote and improve 
\01
sustainable management 
of natural protected areas 
(Kune-Vain) to preserve 
biological diversity
Improve environmental 
\01
monitoring capacity in the 
participating areas.
Replication of projects in 
\01
other cities and countries
Increase of familiarity with 
\01
protected areas and number 
of visitors (Kune Vaine)
Preparation and 
\01
implementation of an 
effective Management Plan 
for Kune-Vain natural 
reserve
Reduction of pollution and 
\01
improvement of the 
environmental conditions in 
the participating areas
Implementation of a basic 
\01
monitoring system of the 
coastal areas.
discourage untreated 
wastewater discharge
Trained staff managing 
\01
and monitoring the 
protected area
Output from each 
Component:
Output Indicators:
Project reports:
(from Outputs to Objective)
Sewage Pollution Reduction
Reduce sewage pollution 
\01
load into coastal areas
Prevent clogging and 
\01
reduce wastewater load in 
the open canals
CTW constructed
\01
CTW operational
\01
Chemical indicators of the 
\01
sewage treated
Monitoring plan prepared 
\01
and implemented.
Environmental monitoring of 
\01
protected and coastal areas - 
water indicator
Evaluation reports
Proper maintenance and 
\01
operation of CTW by local 
authorities
Dedicated management of 
\01
natural  reserves and 
protected areas
Sufficient funds for 
\01
Maintenance & Operation
Law enforcement prohibiting 
\01
encroachment in protected 
areas
Environmental Management 
and Monitoring
Sustainable management of 
\01
protected tidal marshland
Management plan for the 
\01
Kune-Vaine wetland 
prepared and implemented
Monitor environmental 
\01
situation in Kune-Vain 
Managed Area
Existing rangers of the 
\01
protected Kune-Vaine 
wetland trained and 
equipped with modern 
management equipment
Monitor environmental 
\01
situation in coastal areas
- 27 -
Page  28
Replication Promotion
Increase awareness on the 
\01
use of ecological 
technologies
Promote replication of the 
\01
project in other areas of 
Albania
Dissemination of 
\01
information and education 
on the sustainable use of 
natural resources
Project Management
Coordination, 
\01
management and 
monitoring of the 
activities under the 
project
Project Components / 
Sub-components:
Inputs:  (budget for each 
component)
Project reports:
(from Components to 
Outputs)
Sewage Pollution Reduction
Wetlands construction
\01
Main collectors construction
\01
Land acquisition
\01
Environmental Management 
and Monitoring
Replication Promotion
Project Management
CTW Inputs (*1000 US$) :
GEF Component
:
Wetlands Construction: 4,380.00
Env. Manag. & Monit.:    200.00
Replication:                      200.00
Project Management:   
      90.00
                                      4,870.00
Implementation report
Project management during 
construction
GoA Component
:
Land acquisition:        
    720.00
720.00
Other Donors:
Main collectors:             4,300.00
Env. Manag. & Monit.:
 1,000.00
5,300.00
Total CTW Project cost
:
GEF component:         4,870.00
GoA component:            720.00
- 28 -
Page  29
Other Donors:            
  5,300.00
                                   10,890.00
- 29 -
Page  30
Annex 2:  Detailed 
Project Description
ALBANIA
: 
Intergrated Water & EcoSystems Management GEF
The detailed project description is provided in the main text.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$
 million 
- 30 -
Page  31
Additional GEF Annex 
3
:  Incremental Cost Analysis
ALBANIA
: 
Intergrated Water & EcoSystems Management GEF
Project Background
The aim of this project is to reduce the sewage pollution load from the 4 cities of Durres, Saranda, Lezhe 
in order to protect and improve the environmental conditions of coastal  and marine habitats. The great 
part of the considered ecosystems have been ranked at international level according with the Ramsar 
convention. The project deals in particular with the building up of constructed wetlands for wastewater 
treatment. These activities have been associated with the wildlife management  measures to be adopted in 
some significant ecosystems (eg Kune-Vaine natural reserve).
Broad Development Goals 
Albania's water infrastructure is in urgent need of improvement, in technical short term rehabilitation and 
in medium and long term technical and managerial improvements. Water quality could be improved 
significantly with a reliable supply of chemicals. Under existing conditions excessive water losses have 
resulted from lack of maintenance and repair and lack of metering and operational control. . Wastewater 
treatment facilities do not exist in Albania and raw sewage is discharged untreated into sea and rivers.
Several causes for these conditions of Albania's water sector are:
Lack of revenues
: Tariffs below the true cost of water and lack of tariff collection enforcement in the 
\01
last decade have significantly reduced the income of the water supply companies. Water and 
sanitation systems have received virtually no maintenance in the last ten years.
Over consumption
: Flat rates rather than metered consumption resulted in massive water waste and 
\01
also the collapse of the irrigation system has contributed to a sharp increase in water demand in the 
last ten years. On top of this, a massive migration to urban centres, with illegal tapping and no 
incentive to reduce water consumption, augmented the water sectors problems.
Inadequacy of the physical infrastructure
: Due to the lack of appropriate materials/equipment and 
\01
insufficient consideration of the economic aspects in the design, the existing systems are expensive 
to run and to maintain.
The Government of Albania (GoA) has embarked on a water sector strategy, that involves a two-tier 
approach focusing in the short term on urgent repairs to the systems and on medium term program to 
support sector reforms. Within this medium term program, the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project 
(MWWP)  (IDAP075156)  was  formulated,  aiming  on  improving  the  water  and  sanitation  services  in 
Albania, thus contributing to the economic development of the country in an environmental sound way. 
The MWWP aims to achieve this objective by assisting the Government of Albania (GoA) in testing and 
developing important components of the water sector reform, being:
First time application of a management contract in Albania's water sector;
1.
Piloting the GoA's adopted Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy;
2.
Integrating wastewater management into overall ecosystem management to protect globally 
3.
important biodiversity.
This report elaborates the technical assessment of  component number three: Integration of wastewater 
- 31 -
Page  32
management into an overall ecosystem management to protect globally important biodiversity. 
Albania  is  characterized  by  the  presence  of  very  relevant  coastal  and  marine  ecosystems  (lagoons, 
hygrophilous forests, Posidonia meadows) where the biodiversity value is menaced by the presence of 
urban  settlements  in  the  surroundings  and  of  associated  environmental  impacts  (in  particular  the 
eutrophication of water due to the existing raw sewage outfalls. 
The Government is committed to biodiversity conservation and the water sector is one of priorities at 
national level in coherence and synergy with Strategic Principles of the Albanian Biodiversity Strategy. 
The international financial institutions are supporting the wastewater and environment sector in Albania, 
through loans to improve waste water systems and the environmental condition of coastal and  marine 
ecosystems.
Global Biodiversity Objective
The projects assessed support the following GEF Operational Programs:
No. 2 Coastal, Marine and Freshwater Ecosystem
\01
No. 9 Integrated Land and Water Multiple Focal Area
\01
No. 10 Contaminated-Based
\01
No.12 Integrated Ecosystem Management
\01
In particular, the projects assessed entails:
abatement of pollution to international waters;
\01
conserving biodiversity in coastal and marine ecosystems;
\01
helping to protect and increase the habitat for endangered water birds, halophyte plants and other 
\01
species of coastal marshes;
restoring and prevent from destruction tidal marshland that are currently polluted at unsustainable 
\01
levels by untreated sewage;
avoiding difficult and costly restoration of tidal marshland in the future.
\01
The coastal lagoon system of Albania constitutes one of more important wetlands of the Region, as stated 
in GEF project “Conservation of Wetland and Coastal Ecosystems in the Mediterranean Region”. In 
particular  endangered  and  endemic  species  as  the  Pygmy  cormorant  (Phalacrocorax  pygmaeus),  the 
Mouse-ear bat (Myotis miotis) and the Otter (Lutra lutra) live in these habitats and should be considered 
as flag species.
Water pollution mainly associated with the flow of untreated sewage is one of more relevant threats of 
these  ecosystems.  This  has  the  effect  of  upsetting  the  biological  balance  and  also  increases  the 
subsequent eutrophication phenomena of wetlands. Although the impact of the eutrophication on the 
marine communities (plankton, benthos, fish) relationships is not known to the same level of detail as on 
the wetland communities, it has been pointed out that coastal water pollution with particular reference to 
the untreated waste waters heavily affects Posidonia oceanica meadows and the related communities (e.g. 
the endangered species Pinna nobilis, see Annex 3).
Regional GEF projects have focus part of their activities on the conservation of biodiversity of Albanian 
wetlands  and  lagoons  as  the  project  Conservation  of  Wetland  and  Coastal  Ecosystems  in  the 
Mediterranean  Region  Project  (Karaburun,  Orikumi,  and  Narta  habitats)  and  the  Lake  Ohrid 
- 32 -
Page  33
Conservation Project. Taking into consideration the international relevance of these habitats, other GEF 
projects have been planned on other Albanian
wetlands as on the lake Prespa, and on the Karavasta 
lagoon.  Very  few  activities  have  been  planned  for  the  Albanian  marine  habitats.  This  it  probably 
associated with to the scarcity of data and information on these areas, although live endangered species 
as the Monk seal (Monachus monachus) and the Sea turtle (Caretta caretta) do occur in these areas.
Because of the urgency of the situation from the environmental and health point of view, this project is 
focalized  on  the  planning  and  implementation  of  constructed  wetlands  for  wastewater  treatment  (to 
reduce water pollution and health risks) and on wildlife management measures supporting the biological 
diversity of the following wetlands/marine areas: 
(i)
Kune Vaini marshland
; 
(ii)
Kanella lake;
(iii)
Durres Porta Romana marine environment;
(iv)
Durres-Rrushkull-Erzeni River Managed Natural Reserve with and without connecting corridor;
(v)
Butrinti lake area;
(vi)
Saranda bay and Ksamili bay;
(vii)
Kakome bay.
All these areas are comprised in the  network of Albanian Protected Areas, as described in the document 
“Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (BSAP)”, approved by Government of Albania in the year 2000.
Specific development goals and baseline
Water pollution,  mainly generated  by the presence  of increasing population   concentrated  along the 
Adriatic  coastline,  has  considerably  deteriorated  the  natural  inland  ecosystems  and  the  biological 
productivity of the coastal areas.  This in turn represents a serious threat to the biological diversity of the 
natural habitats of the coastal wetlands, rivers and sea waters, as well as a potential risk to public health.  
Albania lacks of any wastewater treatment facilities and existing raw sewage outfalls are located either 
directly on the seacoast, on the bank of coastal rivers or on drainage ditches that after a short distance 
discharge directly into globally significant tidal marshlands and/or the sea. 
Based on the present economic situation and the lack of active environmental pressure groups, it is likely 
that nature conservation will not be sufficiently promoted in the near future. This project promotes and 
expands the use of CTW's in areas where existing pollution loads are threatening natural wetland systems 
critical for biodiversity and the rehabilitation of Saranda Bay.
Degradation  of  the  quality  of  trans-boundary  water  resources,  caused  mainly  by  pollution  from 
land-based activities is an important problem. The coastal cities of Durres, Lezhe, Saranda do not have 
any  wastewater  treatment  facilities,  as  such  the  project  aims  to  capture  global  benefits  by  reducing 
land-based pollution from the four cities and protect, restore and enlarge endangered coastal and marine 
habitats  by  introducing  low  cost  ecologically  based  wastewater  treatment.  According  the  results  of 
CTW’s alternatives evaluation and selection, the realisation of the CTW in Shengjin area appears very 
contradictory taking into consideration the lack of availability of suitable land. The location of the single 
alternative identified presents a very strong negative impact in terms of loss of natural habitats and of 
destruction of nesting habitat of an endangered species. Thus the realization of the CTW in Shengjin 
should be not considered because if the high risk of loss of biodiversity and the ecological fragility of 
Kanella lake. A conventional wastewater treatment plant is therefore suggested by the Consultant (option 
not included in the
Incremental Cost analysis). 
- 33 -
Page  34
In short the project’s specific development goals results:
Reduced sewage pollution load generated by the four cities of Durres, Lezhe and Saranda;
\01
Development and establishment of environmentally-beneficial low cost water treatment technologies 
\01
using constructed treatment wetlands (CTW);
Development and establishment of management of protected areas;
\01
Recommendations for dissemination and replication of project achievements.
\01
Delay of the project implies that significant marine environments, coastal areas and lagoons would be 
seriously affected and it would be very difficult and costly to restore.
As such the baseline of the project implies:
Discharge of raw untreated wastewater into sea and river;
\01
Deterioration of the local environment also affecting globally important natural habitats;
\01
No conventional wastewater treatment is foreseen in the short term due to the problematic financial 
\01
situation of  the GoA in general and the water supply companies in particular.
The waste water chemical and microbiological analysis of the existing sewage outfalls shows very high 
values  of  the  organic  parameters.  The  values  of  these  parameters  can  be  considered  very  critical 
considering health issues and the relevance of neighboring water ecosystems (wetlands, marine areas). 
The population of Durres and Saranda is growing rapidly  and the consequent forecast is the worsening 
of the quality of the surrounding water ecosystems (sea, wetlands) in the absence of the implementation 
of waste water treatment system. Also Lezhe cities population is growing, but not with the same trend of 
Durres  and  Saranda.  In  the  context  of  the  described  baseline  scenario  the  Government  of  Albania 
currently allocates no financial resources to create wastewater treatment facilities to reduce pollution 
load in the global ecosystem and therefore the total expenditures under the without-project situation is 
assumed equal to zero.
Global Environmental Objective
As a consequence of the current course of action, regarded as the Baseline Scenario, project coastal area 
will  likely  continue  be  under  the  growing  pollution  effects  of  uncontrolled  and  increased  urban 
wastewater  with  negative  consequences  both  at  the  environmental  level  and  at  the  institutional  and 
economic ones.  A list of potential problems is put forward in the following:
endangered marine ecosystems and habitats
, in medium and infralittoral level (particularly 
\01
\01\01
\01
Shengjini-Lezha area, Porto Romano bay and Saranda bay);
endangered coastal ecosystems
: sand dunes, delta rivers (particularly Drini-Lezha), alluvial and wet 
\01
\01\01
\01
forests, lagoons ( Kune and Vaini) and coastal lakes (Kenalla);
risks and adverse impacts on biodiversity
, and some of the major adverse impacts have been: 
\01
\01\01
\01
habitat loss and fragmentation, damage 
(Porto Romano bay, Shengjini and Saranda bay)
 and 
degradation 
(Kenalla lake)
 of habitats and ecosystems, loss of species or the threat of their extinction 
etc.;
reduction
of the
Posidonia oceanica
 meadows  populations, particularly in the Shengjini- Lezha  
\01
\01\01
\01
and Saranda-Ksamili area, but also in the Porto Romano and Lalzi bay;
development of some algae populations
 (
Ulva and Enteromorpha
), particularly in Saranda bay, 
\01
\01\01
\01
Shengjini bay and Porto Romano bay;
- 34 -
Page  35
observation of  some 
eutrophication
 in the Saranda bay, Shengjini area and Kenalla lake;
\01
probability to affect reproduction of the fish species
 (
e.g. sea bass
) in the marine ecosystems of 
\01
\01\01
\01
Shengjini bay (particularly northern part-Rana e hedhun), in Porto Romano and Lalzi bay and near 
the Saranda and Ksamili bay, etc.
negative consequences
  on the eco-tourism development;
\01
delay 
for the implementation of the
 Coastal Zone Integrated Management and of the economic 
\01
\01\01
\01
development;
difficulties in 
implementing institutional strengthening measures
 in order to implement the 
\01
sustainability  and biodiversity maintenance policies.
In order to minimize the pollution and the consequent eutrophication of the wetlands and of marine areas 
is proposed the setting up of constructed wetlands for wastewater treatment. A constructed wetland is "
a 
designed and man-made complex of saturated substrates, emergent and submergent vegetation, animal 
life, and water that simulates natural wetlands for human use and benefits
." (from 
Constructed Wetlands 
for  Wastewater  Treatment:  Municipal,  Industrial  and  Agricultural
,  1989,  D.A.  Hammer,  ed.  Lewis 
Publishers, Inc. Chelsea, Michigan).
The CTW provide a noticeable reduction of the pollution loads into the receiving water bodies, which 
represents the major contribution to the protection and restoring actions in the endangered coastal zone 
and marine habitats. According the analytical calculation, the following Removal Efficiency (RE%) are 
expected:  BOD  70%,  and  fecal  coliform  removal  of  95%,  studies  show  the  CTW  are  effective  at 
removing nutrients such as nitrogen (Re=50%) and phosphorous (Re=25%). Tab. 1/a and 1/b provides an 
estimation on the quality of waste water in case of implementation of the constructed wetlands according 
with Project Preliminary Design. In Tab. 1/a  are shown the Removal Efficiency (RE%)((*) RE% is the 
ratio of the out-let concentration versus the in-let concentration of the wastewater pollutant.*) of the 
CTW according to the 
“fully natural”
 wastewater treatment system (i.e. oxidation ponds interconnected 
with a Free Water Surface system). Whereas in Tab.1/b are shown the Removal Efficiency (RE%)20.3/a 
according    CTW  wastewater  treatment  option  with 
“mechanical  aerated  ponds”
  (i.e.  aerated  ponds 
interconnected with a Free Water Surface system).
Table 1/a-Quality of wastewater in Durres, Lezhe, Saranda after project intervention on Project 
CTW basic scheme-fully natural solution
Main Parameter
Assumed Sewage 
Inlet concentration
(mg/l)
Expected median 
of RE% 
Expected median 
Outlet concentration 
(mg/l)
BOD
250-200
70%
75-60
N-total
60-50
50%
30-25
P-total
27-20
25%
20-15
Table 1/b-Quality of wastewater in Durres, Lezhe, Saranda after project intervention on Project 
CTW option with aerated ponds
Parameter
Assumed Sewage 
Inlet concentration
(mg/l)
Expected median 
of RE% 
Expected median 
Outlet concentration 
(mg/l)
BOD
250-200
85%
(range 30%-95%)
50-30
N-total
60-50
75%
(range 20%-80%)
15-10
- 35 -
Page  36
P-total
27-20
65%
(range 20%-70%)
15-10
These conservation measures in the proposed GEF alternative are actions which are ‘additional’ to the 
baseline. These additional actions will complement existing and planned activities consistent with the 
Strategic Principles of the Albanian Biodiversity Strategy and the implementation of the constructed 
wetlands. In view of the understanding that biodiversity conservation, water quality and quantity, are 
intimately linked, especially in the Albanian coastal area, where the presence of endangered species and 
the poor quality of the waters represents a need for the project activities to be expanded to address the 
special concerns of the endangered and threatened biodiversity and related wildlife management.
Specifically the additional activities are designed to improve wildlife management of wetlands, restoring 
precious  habitats  and  to  secure  long  term  biodiversity  protection  in  the  form  of  strengthening  the 
management of protected areas. Incorporation of these components into the proposed alternative will 
ensure  the  conservation  of  globally  unique  biodiversity  by  integrating  biodiversity  protection  to  the 
improvement of the quality of life. 
The main program and activities which constitute the proposed alternative includes:
(i) establishment of constructed treatment wetlands (Durres, Lezha, Saranda); 
(ii) improvement of the management of Kune-Vain Natural Reserve (Lezha);
(iii) replication promotion;
The details for each of these program activities are in the Project document.
The expected outputs and the global benefits:
(i) Reduce sewage pollution load (Durres, Lezhe), and prevent pollution of Saranda bay and surrounding 
coastal areas;
(ii) Protection of endangered marine ecosystem biodiversity (and the associated endangered species) in 
the marine environment (Saranda bay, Porto Romano and Lalzi bay);
(iii) Habitat restoration and increase of biodiversity (Rrushkull-Erzeni area);
(iv) Restore tidal marshlands currently polluted by untreated sewage and prevent reduction of 
biodiversity in the tidal marshland and protect and increase the habitat for endangered water birds and 
other.
Costs
The total cost of the GEF alternative estimated at US$ 4,870.00 (
fully natural solution
” see tab. 1/a) is 
detailed as follows. 
Table 2 - GEF costs of the project (*1.000 US$) - CWT basic scheme
Wetland  and  habitat  improvement,  including  Saranda  water 
quality and marine system improvement
4,380.00
Replication component
200.00
Strengthening of monitoring and enforcement capacity
200.00
- 36 -
Page  37
Project management and monitoring
90.00
Total
4,870.00
The following tables depicts the financing plan:
Table 3 - Financing plan   (*1.000 US$) - CTW basic scheme
GEF
Other 
Donors
GoA
Total
Sewage Pollution Reduction
4,380,000
4,300,000
720,000
9,400,000
Environmental 
Management 
and 
Monitoring
200,000
1,000,000
1,200,000
Replication Promotion
200,000
200,000
Project Management
90,000
90,000
Total 
4,870,000
5,300,000
720,000
10,890,000
Benefits-Global Environmental Effects
The  implementation  of  the  GEF  Alternative  would  provide  the  means  for  protect  unique  coastal 
landscape  and  marine  habitats,  as  well  as  restoring  high  priority  wetlands  (Kune-Vain)  and  several 
habitats for important bird species. Benefits generated  from the project would include those classified at 
“national”- protection of local and regional environmental resources and increased public awareness of 
environmental  issues-as  well    as  those  considered  “global”  in  nature.  Global  benefits  would  be  the 
reduction of nutrients in flow waters and the protection of rare and unique ecosysteem. The GEF grant 
has helped leverage funds from other donors for additional activities.  The exact contribution in terms of 
quantifiable incremental environmental improvements are difficult to quantify, however, an explicit link 
between BOD5 and Nutrient emission reductions and improvement of the environment can be assumed.
Incremental Costs
The difference between the cost of Baseline scenario (equal a zero) and the cost of the GEF Alternative 
(US$  4,870.00)  is  estimated  at  US$  4,870.00.  This  represents  the  incremental  cost  for  achieving 
sustainable global environmental benefits.
- 37 -
Page  38
Table 4 - Matrix of global environmental benefits and incremental costs (GEF component)
Base line
Alternative
Incremental
Global 
Environmental 
Benefit
Discharge of raw 
untreated wastewater 
into sea and river; 
deterioration of local 
environment also 
affecting globally 
important natural 
habitats 
Protect and restore 
endangered coastal and 
marine habitats; increase 
of biodiversity; 
reduction of BOD5 and 
Nutrient emission.
BOD5  (1):      31,687 
ton 
Nutrient:  
- Nitrogen:     4,769 ton
- Phosphorus: 1,328 ton
Protect and restore 
endangered coastal and 
marine habitats; increase of  
biodiversity; reduction of 
BOD5 and Nutrient 
emission.
BOD5  (1):     31,687 ton 
Nutrient:  
- Nitrogen:     4,769 ton
- Phosphorus: 1,328 ton
Cost ($ million)
1-Wetland &  
    Habitat 
    Improvement;
2-Replication
   component;
3-Strengthening of 
    monitoring and
    enforcement  
    capacity;
4-Project 
    management
    & monitoring
Total Costs
0
0
0
0
0
4.380
0.20
0.20
0.090
4.870
4.380
0.20
0.20
0.090
4.870
(1)
 These reduction in emissions of BOD5 and Nutrient are explained in the following section.
Cost effectiveness ratio
Table 5 - Removal Efficiency (RE) and inlet/outlet per inhabitant BOD5 and Nutrients  
RE %
Assumed
Wastewater  
CTW Inlet
(mg/l)
Expected
Wastewater 
CTW Outlet
(mg/l)
Expected
Reduction
(mg/l)
BOD5  
(in Dures
)
70%
250
75
175
BOD5 (
in Saranda and Lezhe
)
70%
200
60
140
Nutrient
   Nitrogen
50%
50
25
25
                Phosphorus
25%
25
18
7
- 38 -
Page  39
Multiplying the reductions (milligrams per litre of wastewater) with the total wastewater production per 
municipality,  results  in  the  following  total  tons  reduced  for  each  municipality  in  the  first  year  of 
operation. These quantities increase proportionally with the number of inhabitants as can be seen in the 
section on data and calculations on Annex 18 (Economic Analysis).
Table 6 - Quantities of substances reduced for years 2004 and 2023 for each municipality 
(tons/years)
Coastal 
cities
Referenc
e
Year
CTW
operation
Estimate 
population 
Wastewater 
production
(m3/year)
Expected
Reduction of pollution loads
(tons/years)
BOD5
Nitrogen Phosphorus
Durres
2004
150,000
3,500,350
612.5087.5024.50
2023
250,000
11,037,600
1,931.50276.0077.00
Lezhe
2004
18,000
419,750
58.5010.502.90
2023
30,000
1,262,900
177.0031.508.80
Saranda
2004
30,000
700,800
98.0017.504.90
2023
60,000
2,628,000
368.0065.5018.00
Table 7 - Cost Effectiveness-Durres
Incremental effects
Total BOD 5 reduction (20 years/ton)
24.846
Total Nutrient reduction (Nitrogen/N) (20 years/ton)
3.550
                                  (Phosphorus/Ph) (20 years/ton)
991
Abatement costs
US$
Lek (*1000)
Total incremental costs
5.663.000
792.820
Abatement costs ton/BOD5
228
32
Abatement costs ton/Nitrogen
1.595
223
Abatement costs ton/Phosphorus
5.712
800
Total annual cost per inhab (capital costs + M&O)
5,13
0,718
Investments per inhab.
38
5,285
Average Incremental Costs per cu m treated
0,04
0,006
Table 8 - Cost Effectiveness-Lezhe
Incremental effects
Total BOD 5 reduction (20 years/ton)
2.302
Total Nutrient reduction (Nitrogen/N) (20 years/ton)
411
                                  (Phosphorus/Ph) (20 years/ton)
114
- 39 -
Page  40
Abatement costs
US$
Lek (*1000)
Total incremental costs
1.057.000
147.980
Abatement costs ton/BOD5
459
64
Abatement costs ton/Nitrogen
2.575
360
Abatement costs ton/Phosphorus
9.244
1.294
Total annual cost per inhab (capital costs + M&O)
7,70
1,078
Investments per inhab.
59
8,221
Average Incremental Costs per cu m treated
0,06
0,009
Table 9 - Cost Effectiveness-Saranda
Incremental effects
Total BOD 5 reduction (20 years/ton)
4.539
Total Nutrient reduction (Nitrogen/N) (20 years/ton)
808
                                  (Phosphorus/Ph) (20 years/ton)
223
Abatement costs
US$
Lek (*1000)
Total incremental costs
858.000
120.120
Abatement costs ton/BOD5
189
26,467
Abatement costs ton/Nitrogen
1.061
149
Abatement costs ton/Phosphorus
3.846
538
Total annual cost per inhab (capital costs + M&O)
3,77
0,528
Investments per inhab.
29
4,004
Average Incremental Costs per cu m treated
0,03
0,004
- 40 -
Page  41
Additional GEF Annex 
4
:  STAP Roster Technical Review
ALBANIA
: 
Intergrated Water & EcoSystems Management GEF
STAP Review of the GEF Project component 
GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA: INTEGRATED WATER & ECOSYSTEMS MANAGEMENT
Richard Kenchington
RAC Marine Pty Ltd
PO Box 588
Jamison
ACT 2614
Australia
Scientific and technical soundness
The detail provided on the operational design of constructed treatment wetlands was limited, but the 
scientific and technical basis of using wetlands to reduce the level of sewage pollution contaminants 
flowing through to environmental waterways is sound.  The project is linked with the Bank’s Municipal 
Water and Wastewater Project and addresses the critical issue of reducing nutrient pollution resulting 
from  untreated  discharges  from  the  cities  of  Durres,  Lezha  and  Saranda
.
  It  makes  an  important 
environmental  linkage  by  also  addressing  the  preparation  and  implementation  of  an  effective 
Management Plan for Kune-Vain natural reserve.
The basic premise is to implement environmentally sustainable natural wastewater treatment and link this 
with improved management and monitoring of areas with globally important biodiversity. If successful it 
will address an important element of the environment/poverty linkage and should contribute to building 
national awareness of the importance and benefits of addressing environmental issues.
The proposal is also linked with the EU PHARE financed Karavasta Lagoon – Wetland Management 
Project  and  the  UNDP  GEF  project  on  Conservation  of  Wetland  and  Coastal  Ecosystems  in  the 
Mediterranean Region. It also links with the Mediterranean Action Plan (MAP) funded and coordinated 
by the United Nation Environment Program (UNEP) and within MAP to the Program for the Assessment 
and Control of Pollution in the Mediterranean Region More broadly, it builds upon and should extend the 
practical demonstration of implementation and benefits of comparable pollution reduction projects being 
undertaken in catchments draining into the Baltic and Black Seas.  
Global environment benefits and costs
Nutrient pollution of enclosed seas has been identified as an environmental issue of global significance.  
Major changes in the Adriatic Sea have been attributed to very high levels of eutrophication with impacts 
on  the  habitats  of  endangered  species  and  biological  diversity  generally.  If  this  project  achieves  its 
objectives  it  will  have  clear  benefits  in  addressing  a  significant  source  of  nutrient  pollution  of  the 
Adriatic Sea from Albania. 
- 41 -
Page  42
The context of GEF goals and guidelines
The  project  clearly  addresses  the  issues  of  surface  water  contamination  within  the  context  of 
environmental-poverty linkages. It should bring early benefits through improvements to public health and 
the  living  conditions  of  some  of  the  poorest  people.    With  adequate  attention  to  information  and 
education it should help to generate understanding of the social and economic importance of the benefits 
of good environmental management.  
The project is consistent with the objectives GEF Operational Programs No.2 
Coastal, Marine, and 
Freshwater  Ecosystems
;  Number  8,  “
Waterbody  Based  Operational  Program”
,  which  focuses  “on 
seriously threatened water-bodies and the most important trans-boundary threats to their ecosystems”.  
No.9 
Integrated  Land  and  Water  Multiple  Focal  Area
;  No.10 
Contaminated-Based
  and  No.12 
“Integrated Land and Water Multiple Focal Areas Operational Program”
. It applies the guidelines with 
respect to incremental costs and the log-frame.
Regional Context
The project is important in the context of addressing eutrophication and other pollution related threats to 
the 
Adriatic
 and 
Ionian 
Seas. 
Replicability
This project builds on experience of projects addressing conservation and management of wetlands in 
catchments  draining  into  the    Black  and  Mediterranean  Seas.  It  is  replicating  and  extending  this 
experience in the socioeconomic context of the development of Albania.  The clearly stated intention in 
the design concept is that this will develop experience and capacity to replicate similar practices in other 
catchments draining into the Adriatic and Ionian Seas. The proposal addresses survey and selection of 
sites for replication.  
Sustainability
The use of constructed treatment wetlands is part of a longer term strategy of progressing from the 
current situation of discharge of untreated sewage into marine and riverine waterways to advanced water 
treatment.  It will bring some immediate environmental improvements. 
In  the  longer  term  as  the  financial  situation  of  the  water  cycle  companies  is  stabilised  the  strategy 
envisages  investment  in  secondary  treatment  facilities  with  the  constructed  and  natural  wetlands 
operating to provide advanced tertiary treatment with an increasing range of benefits from flows of 
unpolluted  waters.  Progress  beyond  this  project  to  the  complete  treatment  cycle  will  depend  on 
community willingness to pay the consequent water and sewage charges.  This in turn will depend upon 
demonstration  to  the  community  and  continuing  appreciation  by  decision-makers  of  the  economic, 
environmental  and  social  benefits  of  high  quality  management  of  water  and  sewage,  and  of    the 
Kune-Vaine protected wetland. 
Contribution to future strategies and policies
As discussed above, success with this project should contribute to the broader adoption of high quality 
water and sewage management and protection of environmentally significant wetlands in Albania.
- 42 -
Page  43
Involvement of stakeholders
The project proposal recognises that at this stage of its development:
 “environmental problems in Albania, like in most other transition countries, still take a secondary 
place in the order of priorities “ 
and that Albania:
 “lacks a politically active and environmental conscious elite to actively steer the country toward an 
environmentally conscious development”.  
To achieve extension needed to secure the long term benefits of this project will require:
“decentralized and financially self sufficient management units with a strong involvement of local civil 
society.”  
A key element for the future is willingness to pay.  In this case that will depend on awareness of the 
social, economic and environmental benefits of water treatment and wetland management and of the 
costs of failure to manage.
The proposal indicates that 
“the  rationale,  benefits  and  objectives  of  the  project  should  be  made  known  to  all  stakeholders 
through effective public awareness programs.  The benefits of sustainable wastewater treatment need 
to be demonstrated and the results widely disseminated.” 
There is no discussion of approaches to achieve this beyond:
“ it is expected that consultation with beneficiaries will be on a continuous basis during project 
implementation through  public relations  campaigns conducted  by the  private operator under  the 
Municipal Water and Wastewater Project.”
There is no provision for community or school based education in this process and this is a significant 
issue  given  the  critical  importance  of  developing  the  necessary  understanding  to  achieve  long  term 
willingness  to  pay.  Other  environmental  projects  have  demonstrated  the  benefits  of  accelerating  the 
acceptance  of  information  into  communities  through  school  children  having  good  information  and 
discussing it within family groups and through encouragement of discussion through local activities in 
the media, cultural and community groups.
Risk assessments
To the extent that I can judge, being unfamiliar with the field operating situation, the risks seem to be 
reasonably discussed and I generally concur with the assessments.  In particular the identification of 
willingness to pay as a substantial risk suggests that, as discussed above, a more deliberate and costed 
education strategy would strengthen to the proposal.
Costs
- 43 -
Page  44
I have insufficient operational experience in the target area to make substantial comment on the detail of 
funding allocations.  However the budget for replication is very small $100K out of $5.5 million GEF or 
almost $13 million total.  Given that replication funding will in any case be used for identifying and 
surveying additional sites for replication there is no effective provision for education in this item.  It may 
be subsumed under another heading but that is not apparent.   In the light of comments above on the role 
of school and community education in development of willingness to pay I would suggest that the design 
team consider making clear provision for an education component of the program. 
Conclusion
This is an important project addressing the issues of sewage pollution, wetland in ways that reasonably 
reflect the operating constraints of the transitional status of Albania.   Subject to adequacy of provisions 
for education as a means to address immediate and longer term willingness to pay I recommend that it 
should proceed.  
R A Kenchington
RAC Marine Pty Ltd
1 March 2003
- 44 -
Page  45
World Bank Response to STAP Reviewer Comments
The  STAP  Reviewer  recognizes  the  importance  of  the  project  in  addressing  the  issues  of  sewage 
pollution in coastal areas and the Kune-Vain tidal marshland.  He further concludes that the project 
reasonably reflects the operating constraints of the transitional status of Albania.  He points out the 
important environmental linkage aimed to promote and improve the management of the natural protected 
area of Kune-Vain.  Also, he judges the risks assessment reasonably discussed and evaluated.
Nevertheless,    the  STAP  reviewer  emphasizes  the  critical  importance  of  developing  the  necessary 
willingness to pay which in turn represent a key element for the future sustainability of the project.  In 
particular he points out the lack of an education component in the project that would help to develop the 
necessary  understanding  towards  the  concepts  of  environmental  protection  and  cost  recovery  and 
therefore to strengthen the willingness to pay of the communities.
As correctly noticed by the STAP Reviewer this project is linked with the Bank’s Municipal Water and 
Wastewater Project (MWWP) of which is an integral part.  The project benefits from the results of the  
socio-economic analysis carried out and the institutional and implementation arrangements established 
under the  MWWP.   The MWWP  aims to  increase the sustainability  of water  supply and  sanitation 
services through the involvement of the private sector and the associated improvements in financial and 
operational management.  On the other hand the presence of a knowledgeable international operator will 
contribute to create the local capacity in operating and managing the constructed treatment wetlands.  
According to the social assessment the willingness to pay is high.  Most households are willing to pay the 
new tariff.  In addition, almost all households are willing to pay the monthly fee to connect to the central 
sewage system and to receive septic-tank cleaning service.  Preliminary financial calculations show that 
the wastewater treatment will increase the sewage tariff by only 2-5 cents/m3 and therefore will not have 
a negative impact on the willingness to pay.  Furthermore the MWWP pays attention in establishing 
mechanisms that increase public awareness.  Public communications activities, awareness campaigns on 
water and sanitation services and the need to pay for them are part of the contractual obligations of the 
operator.  The project will also sponsor the establishment of a Consumer Panel (CP) to enable those who 
use water to interact directly with the management and to channel constructive suggestions back to the 
utilities.
The measures taken in the MWWP are to be considered a sufficient direct contribution to create the 
required public awareness and to guarantee the understanding of the principles of sustainability also for 
this project.  Nevertheless the recommendations of the STAP Reviewer have been taken in consideration 
and the PAD has been revised and, subject to the GEF approval, the replication promotion component 
has been expanded to incorporate an education program aimed to accelerate the acceptance of the new 
concept  of  sustainable  management  into  communities  through  dissemination  of  information  in  the 
schools and encouragement of discussion through local activities in the media, cultural and community 
groups.
The STAP Reviewer questioned on the implementation of a basic monitoring system of the coastal areas.  
Albania is among the contracting parties to the Barcelona “Convention for the Protection of the Marine 
Environment and the Coastal Region of the Mediterranean”, which revised in 1995 the “Convention for 
the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea against Pollution” , of 1977, still in force.  Albania and the other 
contracting parties to the Barcelona Convention are also part of a comprehensive Mediterranean Action 
Plan (MAP) funded and coordinated by the United Nation Environment Program (UNEP) which, among 
others, has the objective to protect the Mediterranean Sea against chronic or accidental pollution.   Under 
the responsibility of the Secretariat of the Mediterranean Action Plan one of the activities implemented 
- 45 -
Page  46
under the MAP is the Program for the Assessment and Control of Pollution in the Mediterranean Region 
(MED  POL)  for  which  a  program  to  monitor  marine  pollution  is  carried  out  on  regular  basis  for 
identified pollution “hot spots”.  For Albania the Faculty of Natural Science of the University of Tirana 
is  implementing  the  program  of  collecting  and  analyzing  environmental  indicators.    In  addition  the 
project  will  finance  the  establishment  of  a  monitoring  program  for  water  quality,  biodiversity  and 
socio-economic indicators within the protected areas and the coastal zones involved in the project.
The STAP Reviewer asked clarifications on the criteria and budget for the decision making mechanism 
for the management of natural resources at the municipality and community level.  According to the 
action plan that the Government is implementing towards an integrated and sustainable management of 
the protected areas, the Ministry of Environment and the General Directorate of Forestry and Pastures 
will establish a new administration and management board for Kune-Vain.  This Board will include 
among  others  representatives  of  the  Municipalities  and  Communes,  civil  society  and  a  formal 
representation of the users of the KV Managed Area.  It is proposed that the administrative entity for the 
KVMA should be established under the budget of the General Directorate of Forestry and Pasture.
- 46 -
Page  47
- 47 -
