                            Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)

                                                                                                Report No: AC448
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 11/25/2003
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: ALBANIA                                              Project ID: P075156
Project: Integrated Water & EcoSystems Management             Task Team Leader: Andreas Rohde
GEF
Authorized to Appraise Date: October 9, 2003                  IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: March 18, 2004                                 IDA Amount ($m):
                                                              Global Supplemental Amount ($m): 4.87
Managing Unit: ECSIE                                          Sector: General water, sanitation and flood protection
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)            sector (100%)
Status: Lending                                               Theme: Biodiversity (P); Pollution management and
                                                              environmental health (P); Other environment and
                                                              natural resources management (S)

I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):

The main objective of the project is to assist the Government of Albania in improving the management of
uncontrolled wastewater discharging into international waters which is threatening the global significant
ecosystems along the coastline of Albania. The project will contribute to increase global environmental
benefits by: (i) reducing sewage pollution loads generated by urban settlement areas of the three coastal
cities Durres, Lezha and Saranda and (ii) promoting and improving the management of the tidal Kune-Vain
marshland (near Lezha).

The global environmental objective is to improve the health and habitat conditions of globally significant
marine and coastal ecosystems along the coastline of Albania in an integrated manner by significantly
reducing pollution from uncontrolled municipal wastewater generated by urban settlements of the three
coastal cities of Durres, Lezha and Saranda that are discharging into international waters and improving
the management of the tidal marshland of Kune Vain.

The objectives would be achieved through: (i) reduction of sewage pollution loads through the development
and establishment of low cost water treatment technologies (Constructed Treatment Wetlands) producing
environmental incremental benefits; (ii) promoting the establishment and improve the management of the
Kune-Vain protected marshland; (iii) develop a scheme for dissemination and replication of project
achievements.

I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):

The project will assist the Government of Albania to: (i) reduce sewage pollution loads generated by the
three coastal cities of Durres, Lezha and Saranda through the introduction of low cost wastewater
treatment technologies; (ii) improve the environmental management and monitoring of coastal areas; and
(iii) promote nutrient reduction investments in other parts of Albania and neighboring countries.

Components:

                                                       2
                                                                                                        ISDS


1. Sewage Pollution Reduction
2. Environmental Management and Monitoring
3. Public Awareness and Replication
4. Project Management, Monitoring&Evaluation

Component 1 - Sewage Pollution Reduction: This component represents an innovative aspect of the
proposed project and has an high replication value throughout Albania and the region. The component
consists of two main parts: (i) the establishment of Constructed Treatment Wetlands and related facilities in
the cities of Durres, Lezhe and Saranda; (ii) the construction of the sewage main collectors required to
connect the current sewerage systems to the new treatment facilities, and (iii) sewerage network
rehabilitation and extension.

Component 2 - Environmental Management and Monitoring: The component will assist the Ministry of
Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to carry out the following tasks: (i) Technical
assistance for the development of the protected area management plan including a plan for stakeholder
participation in management of natural resources and economic incentives for long term sustainability; (ii)
Training for Kune Vain administration staff and ranger, and for staff from the relevant line ministries on
natural resource management and integrated ecosystem management; (iii) Implementation of selected
priority measures identified in the Kune Vain management plan; and (iv) Design a monitoring program for
water quality and biodiversity indicators in the protected area and project sites (including provision of
technical assistance and equipment as needed) and develop monitoring processes for adaptive management
of integrated ecosystems.

Component 3: Public Communication and Replication: This component will finance the following
activities: (i) Organization of stakeholder consultations program for the preparation and implementation of
the management plan for the Kune Vain protected area; (ii) Design and implement awareness campaigns on
project goals and benefits of an integrated ecosystem management, local communities' role and
responsibilities in managing natural resources including payment of environmental services (partly covered
by IDA project); (iii) Organization of training and workshops for practitioners and decision-makers on the
technical, economic and environmental benefits of constructed wetlands and integrated ecosystem
management. (iv) Design and implementation of an environmental education and communication program
for local communities; (v) Design and implemention of a pilot teacher's training program in ecology and
environmental education in selected schools (vi) Technical assistance to develop a replication strategy,
including identification of sites within Albania and the region and methods of information and
dissemination. These activities are linked to the undergoing Public Communication program of the MTAT,
financed under the IDA credit, as well as the communication and consumer relation program of the private
operator.

Component 4 - Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation: This component will support a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism (MTAT) to
coordinate, manage and monitor the activities under the project. The project will use the current World
Bank Water PIU which is already successfully implementing the Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation
Project and the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project. The PIU will have full responsibility for: (i)
procurement, financial management and disbursement related to the activities funded by the GEF grant and
the EIB loan; (ii) financial management reporting for the overall project; (iii) monitoring-evaluation and
reporting for the overall project implementation; and (iv) coordination with local stakeholders. The GEF
funds will also be used to complement the PIU with adequate technical expertise in constructed wetlands,
biodiversity conservation and ecosystem management.

                                                        3
                                                                                                          ISDS


I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or
critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)

The Integrated Water Management Project concerns the water treatment by "naturalistic methods" in three
areas: Lexhe/Shengjin, Durres and Saranda Bay. These sites experience high biodiversity values, and their
peculiar features are as follows:

l Lezhe/Shengjin (Kune-Vaini lagoon): The endangered species living in the proposed Managed Nature
     Reserve are: (i) the globally treatened Phalacrocorax pygmaeus (Pygmy cormorant); (ii)
     Myotis-myotis (Mouse-ear bat); (iii) Rana balcanica and Rana lessonae (Frogs); (iv) Lutra-lutra
     (Eurasian river otter);
l Durres (Rrushkull lagoon): The area has been identified as Important Bird Area (IBA) for over 10,000
     waterbirds;
l Saranda Bay and Butrinti lake: 96 endangered species do occur in this area that are included in the
     IUCN Red List of Threatened Animals.

These areas are already affected by pollution problems, and represent the territories for further residential
settlement, agricultural activities and mainly potential touristic development.

In particular, Durres area is progressively affected by a noticeable urban settlement, which is experienced
by an uncontrolled expansion. Former use of the plain had a prevailing agricultural destination and a
regular network of surface natural canals was built in order to allow surface run-off to drain into a central
main channel. This channel finally discharges at sea by means of a hydrovore, to keep the plain dried
during and after important rainfalls, due to the presence of a surface aquifer. The central open channel is
now the final receptor of all sewage waters of the Durres District, whose discharge at sea is causing
pollution and damage of the marine environment in the area of Porto Romano. The plain is limited eastward
by the Erzeni River, westward by the system of coastal hills and northward by the rather complex system
of coastal wetlands and dunes of the Lalzi bay. All natural district is threatened by the direct and indirect
impacts provoked by the advancing spreading of the uncontrolled urban settlement. The western side of the
plain is characterized by the older urban as well as industrial settlement, now completely idle, but land and
surface aquifer contamination represent major problems not yet solved. In the middle part of the plain,
embankments of an old fishing pond still remain, which represent a physical constraint to the chaotic
expansion of the urban settlement. Infrastructures in terms of roads, energy and water supply, sewage
water collection, etc are completely lacking, which implies a strong impact on soil, surface and underlying
waters and a threat to the natural resources of the marine as well as wetland ecosystems.

Saranda bay represents the most attractive coastal area of Albania , where eco-tourism potential is higher
and strategies of sustainable development can be profitably implemented in the short and medium term,
with an interesting return for the local economics. Coastal Zone Integrated Management (CZIM) of
Saranda District, extending to Butrinti Lake, Bistrica Spring and hydrographic catchments and existing
wetlands, can be put forward and implemented only if sanitation problems and waste water treatment and
protection of the natural and marine environment are accomplished. As a consequence, an action plan
combining main sewage water trunk line with a waste water treatment by naturalistic processes is highly
envisaged, to preserve the marine environment from existing pollution effects. The area identified for the
construction of the artificial wetland is located in the proximity of the Cuka Canal.

Lagoon of Kune-Vaini is an important Protected Area, of great naturalistic value. City of Lezhe, the
intensive agricultural activity developed in the alluvional area as well as the progressive population

                                                        4
                                                                                                          ISDS


increase and future settlements, represent potential threats to the natural equilibrium and to the
biodiversity preservation of the aquatic ecosystems. Indeed, the sewage waters of Lezhe directly discharge
into the surface waters of the Drini River, whose spreading at sea can affect the environmental conditions
of all the coastal zone surrounding the river mouth, and consequently the lagoon. Direct effects of
contamination of the lagoon waters can also occur by surface run-off of the agricultural fields and a
hydrovore, installed to keep the fields dried after rainfall events, can increase the contaminant's flow. As a
consequence the eutrophication process can arise sometime in the lagoon waters. A coordinated
intervention, combining the waste waters treatment of Lezhe sewage waters by an artificial wetland, with
the accomplishment of a network of natural "filter streep", in order to intercept the surface drainage of
waters of agricultural origin into the lagoon, should provide positive results for the preservation and
protection of the natural resources. It is also necessary to mention theKanalla Lake, being a natural spring
of karstic waters existing at the toe of the hills, within the lagoon. This a typical transitional water body,
highly polluted for the direct discharge of sewage waters coming from the village of Shengjin.


B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)

Comments:

Given the nature of the CTW's work, the project has been classified as Environmental Category "B".


C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on   for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
                                     Policy                                           Triggered
    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                          Yes    No
    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                  Yes    No
    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                   Yes    No
    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                     Yes    No
    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                 Yes    No
    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                  Yes    No
    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                         Yes    No
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                             Yes    No
    Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                  Yes    No
    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                       Yes    No



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.

II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.

The project will finance the construction of low cost ecologically based wastewater treatment technologies,
with the major environmental objective to reduce the amount of nutrients discharged into the Adriatic sea;
making the project environmentally beneficial. The project will address global benefits by reducing
pollution in coastal areas and protecting the marine ecosystem from destruction.              Apart from the
constructed treatment wetlands with its pre-treatment facilities and earth dykes planned to protect the CTW
from the floods, no new physical structures of significant size will be built and no major adverse

                                                       5
                                                                                                          ISDS


environmental impacts are expected. Any potential negative environmental impacts that might emerge, are
expected to be localized or able to be mitigated. Given the nature and location of the areas selected for the
establishment of the CTWs no impact on cultural properties is expected and also the possibility of chance
finds during construction activities is assessed unlikely. Nevertheless, the Environmental Management
Plan (EMP) and the construction contract(s) will provide appropriate instructions for dealing with the
above mentioned events. Due to the nature of the CTW's work, the project has been classified as
Environmental Category "B".

II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
N/A

II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
N/A

II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
N/A

II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues

In accordance with the Bank policy on Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), the Ministry of Territorial
Adjustment and Tourism in collaboration with the Ministry of Environment carried out the Environmental
Impact Assessment of the project. A combination of quantitative and qualitative assessment techniques
(ranging from desk-based analysis, to water and social survey) have been undertaken. The EIA reflects the
environmental guidelines and standards of IDA which are in line with the recently enacted Albanian Law
"On Environmental Impact Assessment". The EIA describes existing environmental conditions at the three
project sites (including climate, hydrology, soil and water quality, groundwater and biodiversity) and
assesses the potential impacts on these conditions from implementation of the project, during the
construction and operation phases. As part of the EIA, an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was
prepared to identify mitigation measures and monitoring activities that will address potential impacts and
therefore provide an adequate safeguard for the environment. The EIA concluded that the proposed
activities are in compliance with the environmental requirements of both the Government of Albania and
the Bank.


An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was prepared prior to appraisal.                  The EMP includes
monitoring and mitigation activities for the three constructed treatment wetlands during project preparation
and implementation. In addition the EMP includes: (i) a contingency plan to address problems that could
develop during facilities' construction and operation.        The contingency plan includes measures for
determining and remediating nuisance conditions, addressing any toxicity observed in the wetland, and
dealing with construction, or operational errors, or unpredictable events; (ii) appropriate instructions for
dealing with Cultural Property Safeguard; (iii) establishment of a comprehensive monitoring program for
potential dangers to the wetland ecosystem, such as bioaccumulation, avian botulism and other avian
diseases, vector problems, invasion of non-native plants and animals, debris accumulation, and nuisance
conditions; (iv) guidelines for sustainable management of the water regimes in the wetlands, such as
procedures in the event of accidental pollution, floods, provision of optimal treatment capacity; (v) soils
removal and selection of suitable landfills for waste disposal from the construction phase; (vi) evaluation of
flooding risks and implications for ground water protection; (vii) environmental management guidelines for
contractors; and (viii) procedures for sludge removal and disposal. Supervision will verify that all these

                                                      6
                                                                                                         ISDS


measures are being implemented.

The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for this project was finalized prior to appraisal. It was
reviewed and commented on by the ECA Safeguard Compliance Unit and changes this Unit requested were
included before the final public disclosure. The final public consultation meeting for the EIA will be held
before Board Presentation.

Summary of the arrangements to address safeguards issues:

Environmental Assessment: An Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management Plan
(EMP) was completed before project appraisal.

International Waterways: The Government of Albania notified the riparian countries about the project on
July 8, 2003. The letter is in the project files.

Cultural Property: Although no impact on cultural property is expected, the possibility of change finds
during construction cannot be completely ruled out. Therefore the EMP and the construction contracts will
provide appropriate instructions for dealing with this possibility. During supervision the project team will
verify if these measures are implemented properly.

Involuntary Resettlement: This safeguard policy does not apply because the project does not involve land
acquisition. All land required for the construction of the treatment wetlands is owned by the Government
and will be made available for the project. There is also no resettlement issue because the land is fallow
land which is not in use - further, there are no squatters or encroachers on this land who will need to be
forcibly removed. The sewerage pipes will be laid in public roads only - further, provision will be made in
the construction contract to offset any temporary inconvenience caused by obstructions in access to
property. Additionally, during supervision the project team will verify that there is no resettlement or land
acquisition.

II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.

The project is promoting a participatory approach through a process of consultation that will represent an
innovative avenue to arrive at a common understanding of the issues related to wastewater management and
environmental protection. This approach will, in turn, broaden the public consensus and helped already
during project preparation to select the most socially/politically/environmentally acceptable site for the
construction of the wetland in the three cities. It will also promote the dialogue within the Management
Board for the management of the natural protected areas. Building consensus over these issues ultimately
will broaden constituencies support for the water sector reform program currently put in concrete form in
the National Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy of the Albanian Government. By increasing public
awareness on the issue of environmental protection and ecosystem management, the consultations will make
a major contribution to improve environmental governance in Albania.

Three separate consultations - structured in two phases - have been held under the auspices of the
municipalities of Saranda, Lezhe and Durres, organized around the following lines: 1) promoting the use of
man made wetlands for wastewater treatment; 2) promoting a dialogue among public institutions and an
effective collaborative decision making within the framework of the proposed Management Board for the
management of the natural protected areas of Lezhe; 3) identifying in a participatory manner the main
issues of concern and possible areas of improvements. Participants in the first phase included: a) local

                                                      7
                                                                                                           ISDS


authorities (Inspectors of the Ministry of Environment, General Directorate of Forestry and Pasture,
Municipal Representatives, Water Utilities) and Albanian experts; b) local communities affected by the
project; c) local NGOs and environmental specialists.         Participants in the second phase include the
self-selected representatives from the three groups and the four level of decision making: 1)Council of
Territorial Adjustment, 2) Ministry of Environment, 3) Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism, 4)
local municipal authorities. Furthermore, during the implementation of the project, a consultation process
will be established to promote dialogue and build consensus between the Management Board of the natural
protected areas of Lezha and all the other involved stakeholders for the preparation and selection of the
most suitable Management Plan for the natural protected areas of Lezhe.

In addition, local NGOs and the National network of Environmental NGOs have been involved in the
process in order to guarantee a fair representations of the views and concerns of civil society organizations.
A meeting has been convened by the Ministry of Environment, with authorities from the three cities to
discuss issues raised by the members of the network and inform the decision making process.

To increase transparency in government/civil society relations the Bank, within the Municipal Water and
Wastewater Project, is also assisting the MoTAT to develop a public communication program. The policy
dialogue component of the program includes the creation of a public information system for water and
wastewater issues as a venue for input and comment by stakeholders. Specifically, this entails a website, an
information point in the Ministry as well as in other major cities, support to the central public information
center, establishment of a hotline for information on water, and publicizing of tendering procedures.

It is worth to mention that the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project will establish a Consumer Panel
(CP) in each of the three cities to enable the population, particularly the poor, to interact directly with
management of the water utilities about problems and opportunities.             The CPs will help channel
constructive suggestions and feedback of consumers' specific needs to the utilities. CPs meetings'
findings/recommendations about improvement of service quality, affordability and other issues would be
communicated to all service users.

E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or
on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.

[ ] S1. ­ Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks in
         management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. ­ One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
         technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. ­ No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. ­ Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar
         projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard
         issues.

F. Disclosure Requirements

Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:                         Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                                                 3/18/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                                             2/27/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                                                              3/26/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive         Not Applicable Not Applicable

                                                      8
                                                                                                    ISDS


Directors (For category A projects)

Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                                       Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                            Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable

Pest Management Plan:                                                     Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable

Dam Safety Management Plan:                                               Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.

Signed and submitted by               Name                                               Date
Task Team Leader:                     Andreas Rohde                                      May 30, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:     Rita E. Cestti/Person/World Bank                   May 30, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:     Hermine De Soto/Person/World Bank                  May 30, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:

Approved by:                         Name                                                Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Jane E. Holt                                            November 6, 2003
Sector Manager                        Motoo Konishi                                      November 5, 2003

