                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank


                                                      Report No: ICR00001422



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF052981)



                                         ON A

                   GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$4.87 MILLION

                                          TO

                                       ALBANIA

                                        FOR AN

     INTEGRATED WATER AND ECOSYSTEMS MANAGEMENT PROJECT



                                      June 11, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
Southeast Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
             (Exchange Rate Effective February 1, 2010)

                  Currency Unit = Lek
                       Lek 1.00 = US$0.01
                       US$1.00 = Lek 100

                           FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 - December 31


               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BOD     Biological Oxygen Demand
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CTW     Constructed Treatment Wetlands
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment
EIB     European Investment Bank
EU      European Union
EMPF    Environmental Management Plan Framework
GEF     Global Environment Facility
IPA     Instrument for Pre-Accession (of the European Union)
IWEMP   Integrated Water and Ecosystems Management Project
KfW     Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (Germany)
MoE     Ministry of Economy
MEFWA   Ministry of Environment, Forestry and Water Administration
MoF     Ministry of Finance
MoTAT   Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism
MPWTT   Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Telecommunications
NRW     Non-Revenue Water
NWRC    National Water Regulatory Commission
NWSS    National Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy
O&M     Operations & Maintenance
PIU     Project Implementation Unit (in the MPWTT)
PO      Private Operator
WWTP    Wastewater Treatment Plant


                     Vice President:   Philippe Le Houerou
                  Country Director:    Jane Armitage
                    Sector Manager:    Wael Zakout
               Project Team Leader:    Michael John Webster
                  ICR Team Leader      Michael John Webster
                                     ALBANIA
            Integrated Water and Ecosystems Management Project (IWEMP)




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design.................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes............................................... 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................... 15
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 17
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 18
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 19
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 20
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 21
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 3
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ..........................................................................
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results...................................................
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .....................
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents.......................................................................
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Integrated Water &
Country:                Albania                 Project Name:             Ecosystems
                                                                          Management Project
Project ID:             P075156                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-52981
ICR Date:               06/14/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                 ALBANIA
Original Total
                        USD 4.9M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 4.8M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 4.9M
Environmental Category: B                       Global Focal Area: M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Public Works, Transportation and Telecommunications
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 European Investment Bank (EIB)
 European Union (EU) - Instrument of Pre-Accession (IPA)

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/12/2002     Effectiveness:                              07/27/2004
Appraisal:            10/31/2003     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             03/25/2004     Mid-term Review:        03/10/2008          04/16/2008
                                     Closing:                12/31/2009          12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Unsatisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome              High
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                  Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:                   Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision:     Satisfactory                                       Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                               Unsatisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              Moderately Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                          Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before         Moderately
Closing/Inactive status   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     10                  10
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                  8                     8
Sewerage                                                              82                  82


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                                  28                  28
Biodiversity                                                          29                  29
Environmental policies and institutions                               14                  14
Pollution management and environmental health                         29                  29

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:           Philippe H. Le Houerou                Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:         Jane Armitage                         Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:           Wael Zakout                           Sumter Lee Travers
Project Team Leader:      Michael John Webster                  Andreas Rohde
ICR Team Leader:          Michael John Webster
ICR Primary Author:       Klas B. Ringskog




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
The development objective of the GEF/EIB project is to improve the municipal
wastewater services in the coastal cities of Durres, Lezha and Saranda. The global
environmental objective is to improve the health and habitat conditions of globally
significant marine and coastal ecosystems along the coastline of Albania in an integrated
manner.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications



(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                                Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                  approval          Target         Completion or
                                                documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 : Improved health of posidonia oceanic (seagrass) meadows
Value                                       Monitoring system
(quantitative or No system for monitoring established in 3                      Partially achieved.
Qualitative)                                cities
Date achieved 03/30/2006                    12/31/2009                          12/31/2009
Comments
                 Baseline established in 3 cities (Shengjin, Sarande and Durres) - future
(incl. %
                 monitoring possible.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Improved biodiversity in Kune Vain Managed Area regarding flora and fauna
                                                                                Partialy met.
                                                                                # of breeding
                                                                                wetland bird
                                            Improved selected
                                                                                remained
                                            short term
                                                                                unchanged around
                                            indicators:
                                                                                12;
                                            # of breeding
                                                                                # of wintering birds
Value                                       wetland bird
                 Limited baseline                                               around 1,500;
(quantitative or                            species (> 12);
                 information available                                          recovery of
Qualitative)                                # of wintering
                                                                                estaurine forests
                                            water birds
                                                                                can be seen in Kune
                                            (>3000);
                                                                                forest and some
                                            recovery of
                                                                                parts in Vain
                                            estuarine forests
                                                                                saplings of
                                                                                Mediterraneous oak
                                                                                trees
Date achieved 05/02/2005                    12/31/2009                          12/31/2009
Comments         Baseline established for birds - wintering birds and typical breeding wetland
(incl. %         birds.



                                                iii
achievement)
                 Decrease nutrient load caused by the wastewater to the marine environment in
Indicator 3 :    the project area and the Kune Vain tidal marshland as follows: Nitrogen: 115t/a;
                 Phosphorus: 32 t/a
Value            To be determined through                                    Not achieved, since
                                             Decrease in
(quantitative or monitoring under the                                        WWTPs are not
                                             nutrient load
Qualitative)     project.                                                    operative.
Date achieved 05/02/2005                     12/31/2009                      12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %         To be monitored once the three WWTPs/CTWs are operational.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Integrated Management Plan implemented for Kune Vain Managed Area.
                                             MP approved and
Value                                        implemented;
                 No MP for Kune Vain
(quantitative or                             capacity for MP                 Partially achieved.
                 Reserve
Qualitative)                                 implementation in
                                             place
Date achieved 05/02/2005                     12/31/2009                      12/31/2009
Comments
                 MP prepared and submitted to government, but not yet approved or implemented
(incl. %
                 at time of project closing.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                               Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                 approval                         Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 : Wastewater collection and discharge in the participation cities improved
                                            Wastewater                         Not achieved.
Value                                       collection and                     Monitoring will
(quantitative or Baseline to be established discharge in the                   commence when
Qualitative)                                participation cities               CTWs become
                                            improved.                          operational.
Date achieved 05/02/2005                    12/31/2009                         12/31/2009
Comments
                 CTWs will not be operational by the time of Project closing so no improvements
(incl. %
                 in wastewater collection and discharged will be realized.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : CTW constructed and operational.
Value                                                                          Not achieved, not
                 TBD through monitoring CTW constructed
(quantitative or                                                               completed at time
                 under the project.         and operational.
Qualitative)                                                                   of project closing.
Date achieved 05/02/2005                    12/31/2009                         12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Removal efficiency of CTWs



                                                iv
                                             50 percent for
                                             Total Nitrogen
                                             (unfiltered), 25
Value                                        percent for Total
                 TBD through monitoring                                        None. To be
(quantitative or                             Phosphorus
                 under the project                                             determined.
Qualitative)                                 (unfiltered), and
                                             70 percent for
                                             BOD5
                                             (unfiltered).
Date achieved 05/02/2005                     12/31/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments
                 CTWs were not operational by the time of Project closing so it was not possible
(incl. %
                 to measure removal efficiencies of nitrogen, phosphorus and BOD5.
achievement)
                 Number of complaints received by the utilities regarding the operation of the
Indicator 4 :
                 CTW (odor, noise, mosquitoes. etc.)
                                             Less than 3
Value
                 TBD through monitoring percent of
(quantitative or                                                               To be determined.
                 under the project           customers
Qualitative)
                                             complaints.
Date achieved 05/02/2005                     12/31/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments
                 CTWs are not operational by the time of Project closing. Target expected to be
(incl. %
                 achieved nine months after commissioning of the CTW.
achievement)
                 Adoption of the Kune Vain Management Plan that includes process indicators,
Indicator 5 :
                 stress reduction indicators, and environmental status indicators.
Value                                        Adoption of the
                 TBD through monitoring
(quantitative or                             Kune Vain                         Partially achieved.
                 under the project
Qualitative)                                 Management Plan.
Date achieved 05/02/2005                     12/31/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments
                 MP was finalized based on agreed roadmap with MEFWA but is pending
(incl. %
                 approval and implementation/adoption at time of project closing.
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Implementation of a basic monitoring system of the coastal areas.
                                             Basic Monitoring
Value                                        System
                 TBD through monitoring
(quantitative or                             Implemented;                      Partially achieved.
                 under the project
Qualitative)                                 capacity for
                                             execution in place.
Date achieved 05/02/2009                     12/31/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %         Monitoring system and baseline established for wintering birds.
achievement)
                 Stakeholder consultations for the preparation and implementation of the Kune
Indicator 7 :
                 Vain Management Plan ongoing throughout the lifetime of the project.
                                             Stakeholders
Value                                        consultations for
                 TBD through monitoring
(quantitative or                             the preparation                   Achieved.
                 under the project
Qualitative)                                 and
                                             implementation of


                                                 v
                                          the Kune Vain
                                          Management Plan
                                          ongoing
                                          throughout the
                                          lifetime of the
                                          project.
Date achieved   05/02/2009                12/31/2009                            12/31/2009
Comments
                Kune & Vaine Board operational; stakeholder consultations conducted and
(incl. %
                public workshops held.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :    Environmental Education and Communication Program delivered.
                                           Environmental
Value
                 TBD through monitoring Education and
(quantitative or                                                             Achieved.
                 under the project.        Communication
Qualitative)
                                           Program delivered.
Date achieved 05/02/2005                   12/31/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments
                 Documentary to be used in education and communication program completed;
(incl. %
                 150 students involved in education program in KVMR.
achievement)
Indicator 9 : Establishment of effective support mechanisms to prevent illegal construction.
Value                                      Number of illegal
                 No supporting
(quantitative or                           buildings frozen at               Achieved.
                 mechanisms
Qualitative)                               42
Date achieved 05/02/2005                   12/31/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments
                 Park Administration generally succeeded to enforce regulations (five buildings
(incl. %
                 attempted, of which two were stopped at foundation).
achievement)
Indicator 10 : Establishment of effective mechanisms to prevent illegal hunting.
                                           Number of empty
Value                                      cartridges found: 0
                 TBD through monitoring
(quantitative or                           per km, number of                 Partially met.
                 under the project.
Qualitative)                               wintering water
                                           birds > 2,500
Date achieved 05/02/2005                   12/31/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments
                 Number of empty cartridges found > 20 per km. Number of wintering water
(incl. %
                 birds < 2,500.
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             GEO                             IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     06/09/2004         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     09/14/2004         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     01/07/2005         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      0.20
  4     05/04/2005     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory               0.20


                                                 vi
                                                   Moderately
  5    04/04/2006   Moderately Satisfactory                             0.15
                                                 Unsatisfactory
  6    09/11/2006   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   0.15
  7    03/15/2007   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   0.15
  8    12/10/2007   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   1.08
  9    05/25/2008   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   1.35
 10    11/15/2008   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   2.13
 11    06/18/2009   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   2.36
                         Moderately                Moderately
 12    11/07/2009                                                       2.83
                       Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                          vii
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

The Integrated Water and Ecosystems Management Project (IWEMP) was originally part
of the International Development Association (IDA)-financed Municipal Water and
Wastewater Project, but due to the extensive consultation process for the Global
Environment Facility (GEF)/European Investment Bank (EIB) project, the World Bank
processed the IDA credit in advance of the GEF approval. The IDA-supported Municipal
Water and Wastewater Project and the GEF/EIB-supported project, although technically
separated into two projects, were still intended to achieve an overarching development
objective. The development objective of the GEF/EIB project was to improve municipal
wastewater services in the coastal cities of Durres, Lezha, and Saranda. By achieving this
objective the project was to contribute to economic growth in these three tourist cities,
the continued prosperity of which depends heavily on a healthy coastal environment. To
this end, the EIB-financed conventional wastewater plants in each of the three coastal
cities.

The GEF financing was designed to meet the global environment objective of improving
the health and habitat conditions of globally significant marine and coastal ecosystems
along the coastline of Albania in an integrated manner. These global objectives were to
be achieved through: (i) reduction of sewage pollution loads through the development
and establishment of low-cost water treatment technologies Constructed Treatment
Wetlands (CTWs) producing environmental incremental benefits; (ii) promotion of the
establishment and improvement of the management of the Kune Vain protected
marshland; and (iii) improvement of the dialogue between public institutions and citizens
through a public communications program as well as a program of dissemination and
replication of project achievements.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Albania is endowed with water resources of 8,600 m3 per capita and year. This generous
allowance helps the country provide high coverage of water supply and sewerage
services. Currently the share of the 3.1 million strong population connected to a piped
water network is estimated at 87% for the 65 urban municipalities and 47% in the 309
rural communes, or an aggregate of 74% for the total population. The corresponding
coverage of sewerage is 68% in the urban municipalities and 3% in the rural communes.

The relatively high coverage is negated by the poor quality of service. It is estimated that
the water captured at the source is generally of good quality and only needs disinfection
with chlorine. The quality of water available to consumers at their taps is an entirely
different matter, because service is rarely continuous. While data on water quality are not
fully reliable, it is well known that water quality deteriorates due to the intrusion of
surrounding polluted groundwater that enters the periodically empty pipe wherever water
is intermittent as is the case in Albania. Wastewater management is in a worse state than
water supplies. Whatever wastewater collection exists has not been maintained and is
often overloaded due to cross-connections with the rainwater drainage causing periodic



                                             1
flooding of raw sewage. Reportedly there is no well-functioning wastewater treatment
plant (WWTP) in Albania.

The underlying cause of this dire state is the weakness of the utilities that are subject to
political dominance from local municipal councils and from the central government. At
the same time, Albania must improve the safety of its water supplies and wastewater
management since the country aspires to gain pre-accession status to the European
Union. Pre-accession will demand that the country make significant progress towards the
EU Water and Wastewater Directives. The country has relied on foreign donors to
finance the investments in the water supply and sanitation sector. The main donors have
been the KfW, the EIB, and the World Bank with IDA funding.

Initially, the World Bank group financed two emergency repair projects: (i) the Durres
Water Supply Rehabilitation Project (DWSRP), approved in May 1994 (total cost
US$17.6 million, of which US$11.6 million was financed by IDA and US$5.5 million by
the Government); and (ii) the Albania Water Supply Urgent Rehabilitation Project
(WSURP), approved in February 2000 (total cost US$14.6 million of which US$10
million was financed by IDA). The World Bank then attempted to focus more on
building capacity through financing a Management Contract with investments in Durres,
Fier, Lezha, and Saranda under the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project (MWWP)
in an amount of US$15 million. The Integrated Water and Ecosystems Management
Project became the fourth World Bank project within a ten-year span. It addressed the
need for sustainable wastewater management and environmental improvements and took
advantage of EIB financing of conventional wastewater treatment in Durres, Lezha, and
Saranda and of a GEF grant to introduce innovative, low-cost treatment through
Constructed Treatment Wetlands. The intent was to be able to count on the improved
capacity to operate and maintain the wastewater systems offered by the expected
presence of a private Management Contractor.

1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) specifies the project development objective
(PDO) of the GEF/EIB project as "to improve the municipal wastewater services in the
coastal cities of Durres, Lezha and Saranda." The global environmental objective (GEO)
is to improve the health and habitat conditions of globally significant marine and coastal
ecosystems along the coastline of Albania in an integrated manner. The GEF Grant
Agreement shortens the wording of the objective of the Project to read "to improve the
municipal wastewater services in the Recipient's coastal areas." For the purposes of the
ICR the PAD wording of the objectives has been retained since it makes a clear
distinction between the PDO related to wastewater services and the GEOs.

The key performance indicators were to remove 50% for Total Nitrogen (N), 25% for
Total Phosphorous (P), and 70% for Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD5) in the
wastewaters from the three participating municipalities.




                                             2
1.3 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The GEOs were not changed although the values of performance indicators related to
two GEOs were modified during the Mid-Term-Review as follows:

        GEO, original                      GEO, revised                     Reason for change
1.Improved health of posidonia     Monitoring of posidonia oceanica   Sea grass is a suitable long-term
oceanic (seagrass) meadows:        (seagrass) meadows                 indicator. Even with 100%
biomass per surface unit; shoot                                       successful implementation it is
density, epiphyte growth and                                          not expected that effects on
area covered.                                                         seagrass become visible within
                                                                      project lifetime
2. Improved biodiversity in Kune   Improved biodiversity in Kune      End-of-project target values have
Vain Managed Area regarding        Vain Managed Area regarding        been reduced to three basic short-
the following flagship Classes:    flora and fauna                    term biodiversity indicators as
Malachofauna,     Herpetofauna,                                       follows.
Avifauna, and Mammalia.
                                                                      Improved baseline for selected
                                                                      short-term indicators:

                                                                      ·   # of breeding wetland bird
                                                                          species (>12);
                                                                      ·   # of wintering water birds
                                                                          (>3000); and
                                                                      ·   recovery of estuarine forests
                                                                          (increased area with Quercus
                                                                          robur saplings).

                                                                      These were the most realistic
                                                                      changes expected within the
                                                                      (short) lifetime of the project.
                                                                      Changes of other taxa like
                                                                      Malachofauna, Herpetofauna and
                                                                      Mammalia       have   long-term
                                                                      perspective.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The beneficiaries from the project were expected to comprise three groups: (i) at the
global level the beneficiaries would be all those affected by transboundary pollution into
the Adriatic Sea which is currently endangering numerous species in the coastal and
marine environment. The reduction of pollution loads of BOD, Nitrogen and
Phosphorous were expected to favor global biodiversity; (ii) at the regional level the
beneficiaries were expected to be those who were expected to replicate the use of
constructed treatment wetlands as a low-cost technology for nutrient reduction; and
(iii) at the local level the resident population and the temporary tourists were expected to
benefit from a cleaner environment with the concomitant benefits in the form of
improved health, accelerated and sustained economic growth because of a cleaner
environment, and aesthetic benefits from the improved management of wastewaters.




                                                  3
1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Project component 1: Sewage pollution reduction, estimated to cost US$15.79 million,
(94% of total), was expected to be financed by the GEF in an amount of US$3.96 million
for creating a total of 92 hectares of constructed treatment wetlands in proximity of the
urban areas of Durres, Lezha, and Saranda; and by the European Investment Bank (EIB)
in an amount of US$11.15 million for sewage collectors to connect the existing sewerage
systems in Durres, Lezha, and Saranda and bring the sewage to pretreatment facilities to
be built to enhance the performance of the natural system, and by the Government of
Albania to finance land, taxes and duties in an amount of US$0.68 million. The pre-
treatment in this context stood for conventional wastewater treatment plants. In Durres
the chosen technology was activated sludge, and in Lezha and Sarande aerated oxidation
ponds. The projected investment costs for these conventional wastewater treatment plants
were considerably higher than for the constructed treatment wetlands which was one
prime reason for considering the CTW in the first place.

Project component 2: Environmental management and monitoring, estimated to cost
US$0.70 million (4% of total), all of which to be financed by GEF. This component was
expected to assist the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food,
respectively, to carry out the following tasks: (i) technical assistance to development a
Management Plan for the Kune-Vain reserve; (ii) training of staff from the Kune Vain
administration and in ministries and NGOs on natural resource management and
integrated ecosystems management; (iii) Implementation of priority measures in the Kune
Vain Management Plan to improve environmental conditions of the receiving waterways;
and (iv) design and implementation of a monitoring program for water quality and
biodiversity in the Kune Vain Managed Area and the coastal areas affected by the
Project.

Project component 3: Public communication and replication, in an amount of US$0.13
million (1% of total), all of which financed by the GEF, to finance the following
activities: (i) organization of stakeholder activities for the preparation of the management
plan for the Kune Vain Managed Area; (ii) design and implementation of awareness
campaigns on goals and benefits of integrated ecosystem management; (iii) training and
workshops for practitioners and decision-makers on the benefits of constructed wetlands;
(iv) environmental education and communication program for local communities; (v) a
pilot teachers' training program in ecology and environmental education in selected
schools; and (v) technical assistance to develop a replication strategy of the Constructed
Wetlands Treatment in Albania and elsewhere.

Project component 4: Project management, monitoring and evaluation, in an amount of
US$0.08 million (1% of total), all of which financed by GEF, to support a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) within the Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism to
implement and monitor the activities under the project. The PIU was to have full
responsibility for: (i) procurement, financial management and disbursement related to the
activities funded by the GEF grant and the EIB loan; (ii) financial management reporting
for the overall project: (iii) monitoring, evaluation and reporting for the overall project
implementation; and (iv) coordination with local stakeholders.


                                             4
1.6 Revised Components

Project component 1: Sewage pollution reduction. The project suffered changes as a
result of the need to match substantially higher investment costs with the available
financing. At project closing on December 31, 2010, the project's main component
(wastewater treatment and sewerage upgrading in Durres, Lezha, and Saranda) remained
unfinished due to delays in procurement and in securing financing to cover substantial
overruns in the cost of the main civil works contract. The sequence of events that lead to
this unsatisfactory outcome is as follows:

   ·   The initial design of the wastewater treatment plants, done by a foreign consulting
       firm, proved to be deficient and suffered major revisions that lost time and
       required adjustments in the order of 40% for the contract value of the main civil
       works contract.
   ·   In view of the cost increases of both the constructed treatment wetlands and of the
       conventional wastewater treatment plants the planned CTWs were cancelled in
       Lezha and reduced by 56% in Durres and by 50% in Saranda. The future function
       of two remaining CTWs will be to "polish" the effluents that will be produced by
       the two conventional wastewater treatment plants in Durres and Saranda. The
       performance targets for BOD-removal will be well met by the three conventional
       WWTP, and the targets for removal of phosphorous and nitrogen may be met if
       certain adjustments are made in the operation of the plant.
   ·   After the supervision engineer and the Government realized that there was a
       major cost increase (due to additional items and poor design), the Government
       established a commission to review a contract amendment, proposed by the
       supervisory engineer, to finalize the construction. The Bank fielded a specific
       mission to review the work of the commission and agree a way forward. The
       agreement of all parties was to: (i) reduce the size of the overrun by Euro 2
       million, which resulted in a revised cost of Euro 19.8 million; (ii) reduce the CTW
       in Durres and Sarande, but still comply with the pollution reduction committed
       under the GEF (BOD, N, P); (iii) eliminate the CTW in Lezhe as the discharge in
       Lezhe from the WWTP goes into a natural wetland and expect the nutrient
       removal performance would be achieved in the natural wetlands; and (iv) take
       advantage of the European Union Instrument for Pre-Accession (EU IPA) funds
       already committed in Durres and Lezhe (committed in 2008) to finance the
       collectors for the influent and therefore shift EIB financing from collectors to
       finance more of WWTP. This allowed the project to continue and the
       Government portion to increase modestly to an amount approved by Ministry of
       Finance (MoF).
   ·   In order to avoid having three completed WWTP without wastewater to treat,
       funding was secured from the EU IPA program in order to upgrade the sewerage
       systems and, most critically, build the pumping stations and connecting trunk
       sewers, to bring wastewater to the WWTP. The IPA-financed works are procured
       with EU tender rules and have suffered from their initial poor design. At the
       present time, it is estimated that these works will not be completed until sometime
       in 2011 for Lezha and Saranda, and sometime in 2012 for Durres. As a
       consequence, if the three WWTP could be completed by early 2011, conditioned


                                            5
       on additional financing, they will be without wastewater to treat for six months to
       two years depending on the plant;
   ·   By securing additional IPA grant funds EIB financing were able to be redirected
       to finance the escalating construction cost of the three conventional WWTP;
       however, this in turn deprived the upgrading of existing sewerage systems of the
       needed funding as the IPA funds were delayed.

Project component 2: Environmental management and monitoring was implemented as
planned.

Project component 3: Public communication and replication was partially implemented
with respect to consultations in order to promote the adoption a Management Plan for the
Kune-Vain Managed reserve

Project component 4: Project management, monitoring and evaluation was implemented
with respect to project management, but not with due respect to the monitoring and
evaluation of the project.

1.7 Other significant changes

Project component 1: Sewage pollution reduction. The changes in project scale,
scheduling and funding allocations have been described in section 1.6. In addition, it
should be noted that the delayed and slower project implementation increased project
costs, due to inflation. The financing plan was further squeezed by the fact that the US
dollar, in which the GEF grant is denominated, depreciated during the implementation
period with respect to the Euro in which the project expenditures and contracts were
denominated. Project implementation was also slowed by late payments from the
Government of Albania of contractual counterpart funds.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The World Bank financed none of the investments in the IWEMP but was the
Implementing Agency for the GEF grant, and relied on EIB financing and on counterpart
financing from the Government of Albania to finance the bulk of the investments related
to conventional wastewater treatment plants. The IWEMP was originally to have been an
integral part of the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project but the need to allow for
slower-than-expected processing of the GEF-financed IWEMP caused the World Bank to
process the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project alone. The split between the
projects might have negatively affected the attention paid to IWEMP. The IWEMP
benefited from a GEF project preparation grant, in an amount of US$350,000, approved
in 2002, and that helped prepare the project.

In retrospect, it must be concluded that the project was too ambitious in view of the
scarce political support and environmental consciousness that prevailed in Albania at the
time. This observation is valid both for the selected novel wastewater treatment


                                            6
technology (CTW) and for the environmental management component. Albania's coastal
areas are continuously under pressure and erection of private houses, tourism facilities as
well as industrial complexes is an everyday reality. There is little appropriate spatial
planning to steer the informal development. On the institutional level, Albania has not
yet established a specialized entity for protected areas management. Management of the
reserves is done under the Forestry Directorates that are overextended with this task.

Protected areas regulations have not been enforced properly within the last 20 years and
the "free" admittance to the country's natural resources is perceived as a common good.
It is not to be expected that this attitude can be changed within the lifetime and restricted
means of a five-year project. The importance of a well-managed system of protected
areas as well as the importance of coastal wetlands is not readily understood in Albania.
Thus the political support for conservation projects in general and the IWEMP in
particular was and remains weak.

The project suffered from lack of ownership from side of the Ministry of the
Environment, Forestry and Water Administration (MEFWA). The support was further
diminished by the fact that procurement for the environmental component 2 was done by
the "Water PIU" in the MPWTT. The intention was to have the environmental technical
leadership exercised by the MEFWA but this never materialized. Instead it fell on World
Bank missions, with the Water PIU in the MPWTT, to supervise the implementation of
the project that would have benefited from a strong involvement from the MEFWA.

The same lack of support of the CTW to reduce pollution loads was noticeable. What
concerned the city political authorities the most is the lack of a functioning wastewater
collection system within their very cities. The project never focused sufficiently on this
vital aspect since the attention was mainly on how to prepare, finance and construct the
wastewater treatment plants.

The total PIU financing was US$0.08 million with which funding the PIU was expected
to implement, monitor and evaluate a project, the total cost of which was about US$30
million. However, the same PIU had additional financing under the Municipal Water and
Wastewater Project and did not suffer any shortage of funds to supervise both projects,
including the IWEMP.

In summary, the ICR rates the quality at entry as "moderately satisfactory", given the
relative lack of ownership of the country, and the novelty of the project concept in the
Albanian socio-economic context.

2.2 Implementation

The project was swiftly declared effective in July 2004, three months after Board
presentation. In contrast, the subsequent detailed design and procurement of the main
contract to build the three wastewater treatment plants proved time-consuming.
Construction did not start until April 2007, three years after Board presentation and was
immediately slowed when the consequences of the seriously deficient design became
apparent. It became necessary to partly revise the design and adjust the contract sum for a


                                             7
number of omissions. The complementary design and contract adjustments resulted in
two contract addenda of which the second one was only signed in February 2009, i.e.,
less than one year from the scheduled closing date of December 31, 2009. As a result of
the redesign, delayed implementation, and adjustments for omissions, the contract sum
rose from Euro 14.4 million to Euro 19.8 million. The renegotiated contract fixed a
provisional completion date of September 29, 2010, almost one year beyond the closing
date. The World Bank closed the project, as scheduled, which immediately removed the
financing of the PIU running costs. At the ICR mission in early February 2010 the main
contractor was owed about Euro 3.8 million in overdue payments, and the construction
supervision consultants another Euro 0.1 million. In addition, the main contractor had
refrained from submitting additional invoices to avoid being liable to pay the Value
Added Tax to the Albanian tax authorities without the certainty of eventually being paid
by the Government. In view of the substantial unpaid invoices, the Contractor has now
slowed project implementation to a minimum to preserve working capital. The
conclusion of the main contract to build the three wastewater treatment plants promises to
be both uncertain and difficult. In the best of circumstances, the three wastewater
treatment plants could be finished by March 2011.

How to transport the wastewater from Durres, Lezha and Saranda to their respective
wastewater treatment plants is of equal importance. As noted in section 1.6, the EIB
financing, originally intended to finance these works, was instead used to pay for the
additional costs of the wastewater treatment plants. At the suggestion of Bank
supervision missions, the EU then agreed to provide IPA financing to prepare and
implement investments that will intercept the wastewater flows in Durres and Lezha and
transport them to the respective wastewater treatment plants that the IWEMP finances.

The Durres and Lezha investments have been tendered but no contract has been signed.
The EU supervision consultants have concluded that the designs of the respective
investment packages need be modified to correct for deficiencies. Subsequently it will be
decided whether negotiations with the indicated bidders are possible or whether the
works need be retendered. As a result the completion date for the investments could be
the second half of 2011 in the case of Lezha, and late 2012 in the case of Durres. The
upshot is that the respective wastewater treatment plants, even if completed, would not
have any wastewater to treat until the second half of 2011 in the case of Lezha and the
second half of 2012 in the case of Durres. The situation in Saranda is better since it is
likely that KfW will finance the necessary works to intercept and bring the wastewater to
the town wastewater treatment plant.

Subsequent Bank supervision missions repeatedly alerted the Government to the
importance of implementing the sewage interception works and bringing the wastewater
to the WWTP. The mid-term review took place in April 2008 and concerned itself
mostly with the cost overruns for the WWTPs and with the construction of a breakwater
that threatened to undo whatever advances had been made to preserve the Kune Vain
Managed reserve. The relatively late timing of the MTR was dictated by the fact the
wastewater treatment works were only tendered in April 2007.




                                            8
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Many of the performance indicators for the sewage pollution reduction components
lacked a baseline at Board presentation and the expectation was to create the baseline
during implementation. In reality, it was not until the mid-term review in early 2008, four
years after Board presentation, that baseline values for the performance indicators were
established.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Around 42 illegal buildings of different size existed in Kune Vain prior to project entry.
The presence of these buildings has been a constant source of disturbance, pollution,
illegal hunting and other unauthorized activities and poses a big challenge for future
management of the reserve. From the conservation point of view it would be necessary
to relocate all of these residents, which is not in compliance with World Bank social
safeguard policies, unless a resettlement plan is being prepared. However, Albanian law
does not allow legalization of buildings inside protected areas, nor does it foresee
compensation for them in case of resettlement. The project financed a due diligence
social survey among all affected and presented solution models to the GoA as part of the
management plan. The Government and the Bank signed an amendment to the GEF
Grant Agreement that, in the absence of the planned but delayed Kune-Vain Management
Plan, no structure built prior to the Grant effectiveness date of July 27, 2004 would be
demolished; that the Management Plan be subject to the Bank's no-objection to ensure
that any adverse impact be mitigated; and that due process be followed if any
resettlement take place. Through this amendment the Bank's social safeguards were
complied with.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

There are two key aspects of arrangements for post-completion operations. The first
concerns the readiness of the Durres, Lezha, and Saranda utilities to prepare to operate
and maintain the respective WWTP that they will take over. This condition is moot at
present since no WWTP has been completed. However, the main civil works contractor
is contractually obliged to operate and maintain the WWTP for one year following
completion, during which period he is also obliged to train utility staff in the operations
and maintenance of each plant. The second aspect concerns the adoption of the
Management Plan for the Kune-Vain Managed Area. A management plan according to
international standards has been finalized but has neither been approved nor
implemented. As stipulated in the results framework, the preparation was accompanied
by extensive stakeholder consultations, workshops and information dissemination. The
Kune Vain Management Board was established and convened twice during the lifetime of
the project. It is possible that the Management Plan will soon be adopted through the
decision of the Council of Ministers, but political delays cannot be excluded. There is
anecdotic information that the National Territorial Planning Council has granted
permission for new development within the protected area boundaries, as defined by the
Management Plan, thus seriously threatening its adoption and implementation,
afterwards.


                                            9
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The relevance of the project development objective of improving sanitation services in
the three participating cities is rated `high'. The objective of improving wastewater
management is aligned with the second pillar of the joint Bank-International Finance
Corporation (IFC) Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Albania for FY06-09 which
focused on improving public service delivery particularly in the social sectors, with
outcomes being improved public infrastructure and access to safe water supply and
sanitation.

The relevance of the Environmental management component is also rated "high" since it
accords with the Government's concern with sustainable management of natural
resources. The relevance is further strengthened by the need to mitigate the effects of
two other public investments that have affected the Kune-Vain reserve in particular. The
Kune-Vain Marshland is a complex coastal ecosystem historically built up by the
sediment load of the Lezha branch of the Drini River. It is comprised of a big variety of
typical Mediterranean wetland and coastal habitats, such as estuarine forests,
Mediterranean pine tree forests, sand dunes, salt marshes, and shallow water bodies with
varying salinity. Historically two major human interventions changed the hydrology of
the entire floodplane. The first was the construction of hydro power dams in the 1950-
1970s that diverted the major water flow of Drini River towards Shkodra. The second
was the establishment of the drainage system in the Drini flood plain. Still, until 1990 the
area remained well protected and habitats and wildlife were outstanding. After the
collapse of the command economy in 1990 the area deteriorated rapidly. Informal
settlement and construction, uncontrolled hunting, logging, over-fishing, pollution, and
beach tourism together with inappropriate management resulted in extensive destruction
of habitats and withdrawal of wildlife.

3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives

GEO and Intermediate Outcome Indicators (IOI). The IWEMP aimed at supporting the
recovery of the Kune Vain ecosystem by introducing integrated protected areas
management. In the original project design a set of environmental parameters was chosen
as GEOs to be monitored during project lifetime. GEOs were subsequently simplified
during the mid-term review.

· GEO 1: Monitoring of Posidonia oceanica (seagrass) meadows. GEO indicator 1 is
  fully met by the project. Baseline conditions of Posidonia meadows along the coast of
  Durres, Lezha, and Saranda have been investigated, markers for future monitoring
  have been placed on the seafloor, biometric parameters have been taken, and for the
  first time in Albania a method of quantifying epiphyte growth on Posidonia samples
  has been applied. The baseline allows monitoring of the seagrass meadows in the
  coming years. Since Posidonia is a long-term indicator with a very slow growth rate,
  changes cannot be detected before several years of full operation of the WWTPs. It



                                            10
    needs to be stated that no seagrass was found in the coastal waters of Lezha, simply
    because the sediment composition does not provide the suitable habitat. In addition, it
    is important to note that even though the monitoring of seagrass was financed under
    component 2, GEO 1 measures the achievement of activities financed under
    component 1.
·   GEO 2: Improved biodiversity in Kune Vain Managed Area regarding flora and fauna.
    GEO indicator 2 is only partly met by the project. The baseline conditions, as
    stipulated in the results framework, for birds, mammals, reptiles/amphibians,
    mollusks, flora, and phytoplankton have been established. Among end-of-project
    targets only one has been met, namely the natural regeneration of estuarine forests to
    some extent. Both in Kune forest and at some parts in Vain saplings of Mediterranean
    oak trees (Quercus robur) can be seen. With appropriate management, these forests
    stand a chance of recovering. However, the potential area of recovery is significantly
    reduced as a consequence of erosion and intrusion of sea water. It was anticipated that
    improvement of the management in Kune Vain would reduce stress factors with
    subsequent recovery of wintering and breeding bird populations. This did not happen.
    The number of wintering/resting water birds remained low around 1,500, and the
    number of typical wetland bird species breeding remained unchanged around 12.
    While attempts to enforce regulations were made by the Park Administration, many
    stress factors prevail such as daily illegal hunting, ubiquity of fishing boats on all
    water bodies in combination with illegal hunting by fishermen, uncontrolled access for
    sports anglers, cars, beach tourists as well as the lack of strictly protected zones with
    zero access. The quality of the habitats contributes to the lack of recovery, e.g.
    deforestation leaves almost no space for the re-establishment of breeding colonies for
    herons, and poor water quality may influence the availability of food for birds.
·   GEO Indicator 3: Decrease nutrient load caused by the wastewater to the marine
    environment in the project area and the Kune Vain tidal marshland as follows:
    Nitrogen ­ 115t/a; Phosphorus ­ 32 t/a. GEO 3 was not met, since the WWTPs are not
    operative. However, it is likely that this indicator will be met if the WWTP/CTW are
    completed.
·   GEO Indicator 4 (IOI 5, and IOI 7): An Integrated Management Plan implemented for
    Kune Vain Managed Area. GEO indicator 4 has not been met. A management plan
    according to international standards has been prepared and finalized by the end of the
    project. As stipulated in the results framework, the preparation was accompanied by
    extensive stakeholder consultations, workshops and information dissemination. The
    Kune Vain Management Board was established and convened twice during the
    lifetime of the project but the Management Plan is neither approved, nor implemented.
    It is likely, that the plan will soon be adopted through the decision of the Council of
    Ministers, but political delays cannot be excluded. The capacity to implement the plan
    is not fully in place. The Park Administration would have to be supplemented with at
    least one or two expert positions, and stronger political support would be needed from
    the line Ministries as well as from local administrative bodies.
·   IOI 6: Implementation of a basic monitoring system of the coastal areas. IOI 1 is
    partly met. The project financed baseline inventories on mammals, birds,
    reptiles/amphibians, flora, phytoplankton of lagoon water bodies, mollusks, and
    seagrass. Additionally, a survey on sea turtles has been initiated along the beaches of


                                             11
  Kune Vain and the Patoku-Lagoon. All surveys were conducted by specialists. It was
  intended to extract a small number of key parameters from each program to create a
  combined monitoring scheme for Kune Vain to be conducted by the Park
  Administration on a regular basis. This has only been realized for a very few
  parameters, in particular the number of wintering/resting birds.
· IOI 8: Environmental Education and Communication Program delivered. IOI 2 is
  partly met. During the project several education activities have been supported. A
  documentary has been produced and broadcasted on Albanian TV, special broadcasts
  have been produced for children's education, students have been brought to the
  reserve, and stakeholders have been participating on a study tour. The project did not
  succeed in creating the kind of capacity in the Park Administration, which could make
  education activities part of their management routine.
· IOI 9: Establishment of effective mechanisms to prevent illegal construction. IOI 3
  was partly achieved. Throughout project implementation illegal construction
  remained a serious issue. Repeated attempts to build inside of the reserve were
  discovered. The Bank team was continuously in dialogue with the key stakeholders in
  the MEFWA and the Park Administration. Subsequently, the Park Administration
  succeeded in enforcing regulations and new illegal constructions were demolished by
  the construction police. Mechanisms are mostly not effective enough to prevent the
  activities in a very early stage, or sufficient to enforce the rehabilitation of the
  occupied site. So in every case the ruins, together with an area of filled up and
  destroyed wetland, remains. It is expected that further attempts to construct in the area
  will be made, but it is uncertain to what extend the Park Administration is able to
  withstand the pressure from private investors.

In summary, one GEO indicator was met by the Project, another two GEO indicators
were not met, and the remaining indicators were partly met. The ICR rates the
achievement of the GEO as "moderately unsatisfactory". However, in view of the major
impact from the (non-project) construction of the unauthorized breakwater at the mouth
of the Drini river on the Kune-Vain managed reserve the ICR rates the overall
achievement of the GEOs as "unsatisfactory" (see Section 3.5 c).

3.3 Efficiency

The main component, supporting the reduction of sewage flows, was unfinished at the
closing date. As a consequence, the Project efficiency is rated "highly unsatisfactory"
since this component, accounting for more than 95% of total project costs, involved only
costs and but has not yet produced benefits.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Unsatisfactory

The ICR rates the Overall Outcome Rating "unsatisfactory". The rating is a composite
of a "high" relevance, an "unsatisfactory" achievement of the PDOs and the GEOs; and a
"highly unsatisfactory" efficiency.




                                              12
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Not applicable.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The Environmental Management and Monitoring component contained US$0.70 million
for a series of activities that could have changed and strengthened the local and central
agencies and ministries but the ICR estimates that achievements were slight in view of
the low amount of funding. Significantly, the Kune Vain Management Plan has not been
approved, nor implemented.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

An example of the weakness of the Park Administration, and of the entire environmental
administration of Albania, was the construction of the breakwater at Drini River mouth.
At the end of 2007 the Lezha Drainage and Irrigation Board (under the Ministry of
Agriculture) utilized state funds to construct a breakwater in combination with dredging
works at the river mouth. The construction was unlicensed and neither the Park
Administration nor the MEFWA were notified. During several weeks hundreds of
truckloads passed through the reserve, bringing crushed stones and boulders, filling up
parts of the marshlands to rehabilitate the access road for the construction, interrupting an
essential communication channel between Zaje Lagoon and Drini River, filling up
marshlands with huge piles of dredging material and finally building a breakwater
extending 200 m into the sea.

The MEFWA issued an environmental license after the completed construction and,
following a protest from the World Bank team, the Ministry required an EIA. Albanian
experts as well the World Bank experts expressed their concerns that the investment
might affect the sustainability of the lagoon ecosystem. However, mitigation measures as
stipulated in the EIA and requested by the Bank have never been implemented.

The worst expectations of the experts have been confirmed by recent events. The
breakwater changed coastal flow patterns that sped up erosion. The entire northern part of
the Kune Vain lagoon system is likely to be destroyed. The reported damage so far
comprises:

   ·   Removal of the littoral from Drini River mouth to Kune Island, exposing the
       Kune Lagoon to the sea with subsequent extensive ecological changes;
   ·   Erosion along the inner shoreline of Kune Lagoon;
   ·   Rapid withdrawal of the northern Drini River bank that separated the river from
       Kune Lagoon;
   ·   Erosion at the southwest corner of Kune Island;
   ·   Flooding of agricultural lands and settlements of Ishull Shengjin at high tide
       events (as documented in June 2009 and December 2009); and


                                             13
   ·   Accelerated erosion along the beach area of Shengjin Bay, affecting a huge
       volume of tourism investment.

Given the severe impact derived from the breakwater together with the incapability of the
entire environmental administration to act in an adequate way, the project's outcome
objectives were impossible to achieve. Bank supervision mission warned of the negative
consequences that could be expected from the construction of the breakwater. Yet, all
these warnings were ignored and the Lezha Drainage Board under the Ministry of
Agriculture went ahead with the construction, causing the negative fall-out.

While the envisaged objectives were not met, there was some positive project impact.
The regular presence of the Bank team in discussions with the various stakeholders, as
well as the training activities, strengthened the Park Administration and no doubt reduced
illegal construction. By the same token, other enforcement activities improved,
especially against illegal hunting, though they are not yet fully effective.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable since the main components were unfinished at the Closing date.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High

The ICR rates the risk to development outcome as "high". The risk assessment
amalgamates separate assessments of the completion risks, the operating risks and the
financial risks. The risk assessment should separate between component 1 (sewage
pollution reduction) and component 2 (environmental management and monitoring).

The completion risk is the first and most serious risk to the development outcome. It is
already certain the three wastewater treatment plants will not be finished by the
contractual completion date of September 29, 2010. However, there is an additional risk
they will not be finished, as now estimated, in early 2011. By the same token, there is
uncertainty when the necessary IPA-funded works to upgrade and connect the sewerage
system to the three WWTP will be completed. The present completion estimate for these
important complementary works is some time in calendar year 2012. The completion
risk is compounded by the fact that there is at the present time no assured funding of the
Project Implementation Unit in the MPWTT since this component was previously
financed by the GEF grant. There is an effort underway to find alternative sources of
financing of the PIU, but the outcome of this effort was uncertain at the time of the ICR
mission.

Once the WWTP are completed there is the risk the three WWTP may not be well
operated. The operating risk is considerable since none of the involved utilities has any
experience in the operation of conventional wastewater treatment plants. Wastewater
treatment is a novelty in Albania and the three WWTP, once operational, would represent
the fourth, fifth, and sixth plants in the country. Reportedly, there is no well-functioning



                                            14
WWTP, attesting to the operational challenge. The activated sludge WWTP in Durres
represents a particular problem since it involves digestion of excess sludge which
generates explosive gases. The WWTP in Lezha and Saranda would be more robust to
operate since they rely on the less sophisticated technology of aerated oxidization ponds.

The risk assessment of the sustainable management of the Kune Vain Protected reserve
also signals "high" operating risks in view of the constant infringements of the protected
nature of the reserve and of the risks to the sustainability of the shoreline north of the
breakwater that was built in blatant disregard to the warnings from ecological experts
from Albania and the World Bank.

The financial risks to component 1 (sewage pollution reduction) concern the risks there
will not be sufficient funds to operate and maintain the sewerage infrastructure and the
three WWTP. Such risks are highly relevant for the Durres activated sludge WWTP that
is energy intensive. The ICR rates these financial risks as "high". Annex 3 provides a full
financial analysis of the three utilities that will manage the WWTP in the future. The
following aspects are worth noting:

   ·   The Durres, Lezha, and Saranda financial working ratios, i.e. the ratio between
       cash operating costs (without depreciation) and cash operating revenue, i.e.
       collections, was 1.33; 1.34; and 0.96, respectively in 2009, after five years of a
       management contract with an international operator. The conclusion is that,
       except for Saranda, the utilities lose operating cash and depend on operating
       subsidies from the central Government which is hardly sustainable considering
       the difficult budget situation of the MPWTT;
   ·   The collection rates for the three utilities are 0.55; 0.66; and 0.76, respectively.
       These low rates do not bode well for the three utilities when they will need to add
       a sewerage surcharge to pay for the operation of the three WWTP; and
   ·   The non-revenue water levels for the three utilities are 71%, 54%, and 85%,
       respectively. These levels are extraordinarily high and show the inefficiency of
       the operations and attest to the fact that no utility is financially self-sufficient but
       depends on continued substantial subsidies from the central Government.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The ICR rates the Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry as "moderately
satisfactory". The rating reflects the assessment that sufficient resources were devoted to
preparing the project, but that the project design was overly complicated, particularly
with respect to the weak institutional capacity of the three participating utilities and of the
Ministry of the Environment.




                                              15
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

The ICR rates the quality of Bank supervision as "satisfactory". There were only two
task team leaders during the two years of preparation and five years of implementation.
There were at least two supervision missions annually and some components, such as the
environmental component in Kune-Vain, were more frequently supervised during visits
of highly specialized environmental consultants. The Bank missions left a full record of
their work in aide-memoires with early and clear warnings of the risks to orderly project
implementation and to development outcome. In particular, Bank supervision missions
strongly warned of the risks there would not be sufficient resources to connect the
sewerage systems to the respective WWTP; and of the risks that the unauthorized
construction of the break water at the mouth of the Drini river would have on the Kune
Vain Managed reserve. In the latter case the Bank threatened to suspend disbursements
from the GEF grant if (i) an environmental impact assessment were not prepared, and
(ii) further breakwater construction were carried out. Both of these demands were
honored, and the Bank did not have to pursue the option of suspending the GEF grant
disbursements.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The ICR rates the overall Bank performance as "moderately satisfactory".

5.2 Borrower

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

The ICR rates the Government performance as "unsatisfactory" because of the disregard
of the warnings that the construction of the Drini river breakwater would have on the
Kune-Vain Managed reserve. The ICR also notes the weakness of the Ministry of
Environment in addressing the issue and taking ownership of the environmental
component of the Project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The ICR rates the performance of the PIU in the MPWTT as "satisfactory" whereas the
rating of the performance of the MPWTT itself is "marginally satisfactory" in view of the
frequent delays in disbursements to finance project implementation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

The ICR rates the overall Borrower Performance as "Unsatisfactory" in view of the
breach of the Ministry of Agriculture in constructing the breakwater at the mouth of the


                                           16
Drini river in spite of the warnings of the likely environmental damage to the Kune Vain
Managed reserve.

6. Lessons Learned

Lesson One. It is unrealistic to expect that a country like Albania, with weak
environmental support and understanding of the general population and many within the
administration, will, within the limited period of a five-year project implementation
period, accept and implement best practice of managed and protected nature reserves. As
a result, project objectives must be set realistically with due regard to the time needed to
change behavior and culture.

Lesson Two. The financial and implementation risks from projects with multiple
financing sources cannot be emphasized enough. The IWEMP counted upon financing
from the GEF and from the EIB, both of which have their special limitations and
requirements as to preparation and implementation. When the risks of underfinanced
investments materialized (as a result of the cost increases of the main construction
contract) yet a third source, the EU IPA-financing, was brought in to finance critical
connecting interceptors to bring wastewater to the WWTP. However, the IPA-funding
came with its particular implementation conditions that might have contributed to further
delays.

Lesson Three. The role of the World Bank as a convener of financing from several
sources (GEF, EIB, and the EU/IPA) is risky since, without its own sizable financing, it
is more difficult for the Bank to adjust the financing to changed needs. The decision of
the World Bank not to extend the project closing date might have been prompted by the
fact the GEF grant was fully committed by the closing date. Extending the Project
closing date would have been hard to justify since the Bank would have used its own
scarce operating budget to supervise investments financed by other financiers.

Lesson Four. The project name is Integrated Water and Ecosystems Management
Project. Yet, the project failed to apply successfully the integrated nature of wastewater
projects that require attention be paid to the (i) connection of buildings to the sewerage
system; (ii) the collection of wastewaters to secondary sewers in the streets; (iii) the
interception of the collected wastewater and conveyance to the wastewater treatment
plants; and (iv) the safe and environmentally disposal of the treated effluents.

Lesson Five. It is risky to rely on a Private Operator to solve the many problems that face
water supply and wastewater operations. Specifically, the employment of a private
operator presumably meant that the Government was planning to rely on private
management in the future which in turn means that the IWEMP expected the
Management Operator to guarantee sustainable operations of the sewerage system and of
the wastewater treatment plants. After the departure of the Management Operator the
capacity to operate and maintain the project infrastructure is uncertain, endangering
project sustainability.




                                            17
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

No comments were received from the Borrower/Implementing Agencies /Partners of the
draft ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers

No comments were received from EIB and the EU on the draft ICR.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                           18
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                           Actual/Latest
                                     Appraisal Estimate                        Percentage of
           Components                                      Estimate (USD
                                      (USD millions)                            Appraisal
                                                              millions)
Component 1: Sewage Pollution
                                             15.79              >30.00        Cost is not final
Reduction
Component 2: Environmental
                                              0.70                0.70             100%
Management & Monitoring
Component 3: Public
                                              0.13                0.13             100%
Communication & Replication
Component 4: Project
Management, Monitoring &                      0.08                0.08             100%
Evaluation

            Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                        0.00
Price Contingencies                           0.00
             Total Project Costs
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)            0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.00
      Total Financing Required               16.70




(b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing       (USD         (USD        Appraisal
                                                          millions)    millions)
Borrower                                               3.98         Indeterminate Indeterminate
                                                                                  Euro
EC: European Investment Bank                           11.15        17.00
                                                                                  appreciation
Global Environment Facility (GEF)                      4.87         4.87          100%




                                                19
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

See main ICR text




                                20
Annex 3. Economic, Financial and Incremental Cost Analysis

(a) Financial Position of the participating Companies.

The three water and sewerage companies in Durres, Lezha, and Sarande are running
losses and their operations depend on the government operating subsidy before the start-
up of the project implementation. At the closure of the project the financial position of
these companies has improved substantially compare to the base year (2002), and yet
their operations are still not financially viable (see Table 1 below). Table 1 indicates that
the three companies were not able to cover the increased operation and maintenance costs
of water and sanitation services from the increased tariffs during the implementation, let
alone the payment of the two sub-loans to the Ministry of Finance. In the last year of
project completion (2009) the financial position of the three companies did not change
from 2008.

                            Table 1: Profit and Loss Account (`000 Lek)
                                   Durres                       Lezhe                  Sarande
     Profit & Loss
                              2003        2008             2003         2008       2003        2008
 Revenues                    266,893     446,870          43,942       61,522     25,901     71,026
 Operating expenses          373,812     595,423         112,689       83,479     35,499     67,692
 EBITDA                     (106,919)   (148,553)        (68,747)     (21,957)    (9,598)     3,334
 Depreciation &
                           186,017         65,027        15,787       21,016      31,272       47,373
   amortization
 Operating Result
                          (292,936)      (213,580)       (84,534)    (42,972)    (40,871)     (44,039)
   (EBIT)
 Financial expenses        113,398        11,581                       892                       0
 Financial revenues           0              0              9           0           24           18
 Ordinary result          (406,334)      (225,162)       (84,525)    (43,865)    (40,846)     (44,021)
 Extraordinary
                              0              0              0            0           0           0
   revenue/expenses
 Profit before Tax        (406,334)      (225,162)       (84,525)    (43,865)    (40,846)     (44,021)
 Corporate Tax                -              0               -          19
 Net result               (406,334)      (225,162)       (84,525)    (43,884)    (40,846)     (44,021)
Source: KPMG Audit Report

Equally important is the fact that the three companies are incurring capital cash shortage1
and therefore cannot cover as well capital expenses for replacement and network
expansion in the future.




1
  The Capital Cash Shortage is calculated as operating cash shortage minus the depreciation and the net
financial expenses.



                                                    21
A summary of the financial performance indicators is presented in Table 2 below.

                     Table 2: Summary of Financial Performance Indicators
                                                         2002                    2008
                                            Unit
                                                      (Base Year)         PAD           Actual
 DURRES
 Domestic water tariff                   Lek/m3           21.0            56.2           38.0
 Billed revenues                       Lek million        211             809            431
 Collected revenues                    Lek million         74             679            238
 Collection ratio                          %               35              84             55
 Cash operating expenses               Lek million        350             566            531
 Working ratio                                             4.8             0.8            2.2
 Current ratio                                             1.1             4.0
 Receivables/collected revenues          months            10              2.1
 Payables/cash operating expenses        months            6.2             1.6
 LEZHE
 Domestic water tariff                   Lek/m3           15.0            54.5           39.0
 Billed revenues                       Lek million         19             135             59
 Collected revenues                    Lek million          6             112             39
 Collection ratio                          %               34              83             66
 Cash operating expenses               Lek million         43              91             67
 Working ratio                                             6.7             0.8            1.7
 Current ratio                                             0.7             4.1
 Receivables/collected revenues          months           11.0             1.7
 Payables/cash operating expenses        months            1.1             1.7
 SARANDA
 Domestic water tariff                   Lek/m3           15.0            45.3           40.0
 Billed revenues                       Lek million         13             102             47
 Collected revenues                    Lek million          5              84             35
 Collection ratio                          %               34              83             76
 Cash operating expenses               Lek million         27              75             61
 Working ratio                                             6.1             0.9            1.7
 Current ratio                                             0.6             2.7
 Receivables/collected revenues          months           15.3             1.8
 Payables/cash operating expenses        months            5.0             1.7
Source: MWWP, PAD, pg. 55, PICC Review, October 2008, IR, pages 26, 29.

Detailed Analysis.

The failure of the companies to achieve the anticipated financial and operations targets by
the end of the project implementation was because they did not accomplish the
anticipated measures, as follows: (a) adjusting the tariffs as assumed in the Management
Contract (MC) and proposed by the Private Operator (PO), (b) reducing non-revenue
water, (c) increasing collection efficiency, and (d) improving electricity and personnel
costs efficiency.




                                              22
Operating Revenues. Table 3 below shows the trend of the water production and sales.2
According to the table below, the non-revenue water for the three companies on average
was 70% in 2002; while in 2009 it went up to 73%. The water production and sales have
increased by around 25% and 13% respectively in 2009 compared with the base year for
all three companies.

                           Table 3: Water production and sales (`000 M2)
                                    DURRES                      LEZHE                  SARANDE
          Indicator             2002        2009            2002       2009         2002       2009
 1. Water Production           26,950     32,200            2,616      2,244        4,452     8,045
 2. Water sales                 8,395      9,209            1,157      1,040         661      1,245
 3. Non revenue water           69%        71%              56%        54%          85%        85%
Source: Implementation Completion Report, Independent       Reviewer, June 2008,    and Monitoring and
Benchmarking Unit of the GDWS/MPWTT.

The increase of the volume of water sales in the three companies is reported by the
Independent Reviewer (IR) to be mainly due to the increase of the number of billed
customers. The IR Report indicates that the increase of billed customers is: in Durres
69%, in Lezhe 72%, and in Sarande about two times the level of 2002.

The implementation of the metering program is believed to have had reduced water sales.
The anecdotal evidence indicates that in Durres, Fier and Sarande during 2nd half of
2007, the metered consumption per family declined on average between 33% and 37%
compared to flat rate consumption before meter installation3. The same trend was
observed in the decline of the invoiced revenue during the same period. Although the
information from the Private Operator reports and the IR reports is limited to make the
analysis of the effect of the metered billed consumption for a longer period, the above
evidence is a typical result of a metered consumption (at least in short term).

Billing and collection revenues. Based on the volume of water sales increase and of
higher tariffs the PAD has assumed a substantial increase of invoiced revenues in the
operating revenue. The result would be an increase in utilities' operating revenues to
exceed the operating expenses (Table 4 below).

The three companies were able to generate in 2009 more than two times the amount of
operating revenue of 2002. Table 4 below shows that, while in 2002 the billed and
collected revenues covered 58% and 20% respectively the operating cost, in 2009 the
coverage rate went up to 69% and 39% respectively for all three companies.

The main reason for the low collection as reported by the Independent Reviewer and the
Private Operator was lack of support by the local authorities to improve collection from

2
  The base year (2002) reported by the IR differs from what is estimated in the PAD, which uses the KPMG
Study's data. The IR data are based on the Base year Data Report prepared by the Private Operator in 2004.
The volume/physical assumptions in financial analysis presented in Annex 5, Table 7 of the PAD are
given for 2001 and 2007, based on the KPMG Study prepared in 2002.
3
  Note, this does not necessarily reflect a literal decrease in consumption, as the flat rate assumed
consumption to be 150 l/c/d, but did not measure actual consumption.


                                                   23
domestic customers, which remained at the lowest level of collection rate compared with
public and private institutions. The collection revenues of the four utilities were affected
by the low-revenue collection from the rural population in the service area, where the
communes were unwilling to support the utilities in the revenue collection.

                         Table 4: Billing and Collections (million Lek)
                                 DURRES                   LEZHE                  SARANDA
         Indicator          2002         2009        2002         2009        2002        2009
 1. Invoiced revenues        211          437          19          65          13          65
 2.Collected revenues         74          234           6          42           5          47
 3.Collection rate          35%           54%         34%         65%         34%         73%
 4. Operating expenses       350          648          43          87          27          83
Source: Implementation Completion Report, Independent Reviewer, June 2008, and Monitoring and
Benchmarking Unit of the GDWS/MPWTT.

Tariffs. Domestic water tariffs although increased in Sarande 54%, in Lezhe 39%, and in
Durres 9%, compared with 2003, remain much below the anticipated targets. The main
reason was the reluctance of the municipal authorities and of the national water regulator
to approve progressively higher tariffs as proposed by the private operator.

                           Table 5: Domestic Water Tariffs (Lek/m3)
                                        2003              2008               2009
          DURRES
          Actual                        35.0               38.0               38.0
          LEZHE
          Actual                        28.0               39.0               43.0
          SARANDE
          Actual                        26.0               40.0               40.0
        Source: Implementation Completion Report, Independent Reviewer, June 2008,
        and Monitoring and Benchmarking Unit of the GDWS/MPWTT.

Table 6 below shows that average weighted tariffs in 2008 resulted in 2-3 times the level
of 2002, and yet those are below the unit operating costs (Table 6).

                        Table 6: Tariffs and unit operating costs (Lek/m3)
                                    DURRES                   LEZHE                 SARANDE
            Indicator            2002         2009       2002       2009       2002         2009
  1. Average weighted tariff      26          47          21         63          9         52
  2.Unit operating cost           43          70          46         84          51        67
  3. Tariff cost recovery        60%         67%         46%         75%        18%        78%
 Source: Implementation Completion Report, Independent Reviewer, June 2008, and Monitoring and
 Benchmarking Unit of the GDWS/MPWTT

Operating and maintenance cost. The project implementation expected that the private
operator would be able to turn around operating inefficiency of the companies. This did
not happen as shown in Table 7.




                                               24
                              Table 7: Operating Expenses (million Lek)
                                    DURRES                   LEZHE                 SARANDE
           Indicator            2002         2009       2002        2009       2002        2009
   Operating expenses            350          647         43         87         27          83
  a) Electricity                 178          437         23         46          8          35
  b) Personnel                   101          142         17         31         17          26
  c) Chemicals & materials        33           27          2          2          2           3
  d) Repair & Maintenance         20           24         0.5         6          0          13
  e) Other expenses               18           18          0          2         0            6
Source: Implementation Completion Report, Independent Reviewer, June 2008, and Monitoring and
  Benchmarking Unit of the GDWS/MPWTT

Because the water systems of the four utilities relay on pumped water production, the
portion of electricity costs in the operating costs is the highest cost item, accounting for
42% to 67% of operating expenses. The project did not meet the anticipated reduction of
the electricity consumption per cubic meter produced. One of the reasons was the higher
increase of the electricity price than anticipated at appraisal.

Reducing the share of personnel expenses in the operating costs was another objective of
the project, which showed progress at the end of the implementation. Durres, Lezhe and
Sarande companies reduced this share respectively from 29% to 22%; 40% to 36%, and
63% to 31% during 2002-2009. This is explained by the improvement of staff
productivity ratio as Table 8 shows:

                      Table 8: Staff productivity ratio and electricity efficiency4
                                    DURRES                  LEZHE              SARANDE
             Indicator           2001         2009       2001       2009     2001        2009
   1. Utility personnel (No.)     387         481         91         86       94           80
   2. Staff /1000 connections    10.4          6.9        28        14.5     37.5        11.5
Source: PAD MWWP, Annex 5, Table 7, Volumetric/Physical Assumptions in Financial Analysis, pg. 59,
and the IR Implementation Completion Report, June 2008. Monitoring and Benchmarking Unit
of the GDWS/MPWTT

(b) Projections of Financial Statements of the three Companies

The projections of financial statements follows on the cost recovery approach of the
financial forecasts of the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project5 that by the end of the
project life span the Companies will become financially viable (Attachment to Annex).




4
   These assumptions are taken in the PAD for the year 2001 and 2007. The IR data refer to the 5th year
(2008) of the MC. The base year for staff productivity ratio for Fier utility is taken the data from IR Report
for 2002, because of the additional staff added to the utility after taking over the wells and water production
operation.
5
  According to the financial projections all four utilities were projected to break even in 2007, i.e. their
collected revenues would cover 100% operating expenses.



                                                     25
The financial statements forecast for the companies of Durres, Fier and Sarande for the
period 2010-2014 has taken the following assumptions.

       ·    Operating cost break-even target6 that was assumed to be achieved not later than
            2008 under the IWEMP, is moved to 2011.
       ·    Full-cost recovery target, which was assumed to be achieved not later than 2010
            under the IWEMP, is moved to 2012.
       ·    The weighted average tariffs level assumed to achieve the cost recovery are
            adjusted for this projection.
       ·    Collection ratios need to be raised substantially for Durres and Lezhe and slightly
            less for Sarande from the level of 2009 on.
       ·    Under the IWEMP the debt service was assumed to start in 2008. In this
            projection, the three companies would have to reschedule the debt service on the
            sub-loans starting in 2012.
       ·    The sewerage capital investment cost assumed to be financed by EIB loan is
            going to be financed by EU/IPA grant funds.
       ·    The WWTP capital investment cost for the three cities has resulted about 265%
            higher than anticipated at appraisal.
       ·    The three WWTPs of Durres, Lezhe and Sarande will start their operations in
            2011, but not at full capacity.

The projection of financial statements (Income Statement and Sources and Applications
of Funds) will have to be discussed with the respective companies and local authorities to
get their views, feedback, and commitments on the measures required to achieve the
financial viability targets.

Tariffs for the three WWTPs

The operating cost of the WWTPs was assumed to be covered through their tariffs. The
scenario developed is that the WWTTPs should be able to cover their cash operating cost
through new tariffs from 2011 till 2015 as a first phase towards final sustainable financial
viability of their operations. The source of the data is Giovanni Putignano & Figli S.r.l.,
which is constructing the plants in Durres, Lezhe and Sarande.

The total capital investment costs of the three WWTPs were increased two times
compared with the estimation at appraisal. Table 9 below present the final cost of the
investment that resulted during the implementation.




6
    Working ratio not greater than 1.00


                                                26
                          Table 9: Capital Investment Cost for WWTP
                               Durres             Lezhe          Sarande              Total
 CAPEX                        10,903,251         4,823,540       4,118,912          19,845,702
 Tax & Duties                  2,180,650           964,708          823,782          3,969,140
 Sub - Total 1                13,083,901         5,788,248        4,942,694         23,814,842
 Physical contingency               N/A               N/A              N/A                 N/A
 Design & supervision            660,660           102,960           94,380            858,000
                              13,744,561         5,891,208       5,037,074          24,672,842
Note: Physical contingency at appraisal was assumed 15% of cost estimate, and during the contract
amendments was assumed to be included in the CAPEX.

For the estimation of the WWTP tariffs the cash cost recovery approach has been applied
to calculate revenue requirements that are needed to cover the cash operating cost during
the period 2011-2015, when the plants are expected to be operational. The three plants
are expected to work under their capacities over the first five years of operation. The
main reason is that a number of households are not connected to the sewage network, and
in particular those located in the outskirts of the cities and new hotels, summer houses
and restaurants in the beach areas. A detailed assessment of the customer data base of the
water supply customers would help to understand the differences between those billed for
potable water and for wastewater services. In addition, a physical registration of those
properties not yet in the customer data base is required to come up with a sound data
information of the sewerage connections investments required in the future

Two cases for tariffs cash cost recovery are developed as follows: (a) 100% recovery for
each year starting from 2011 on; and (b) progressively increasing cost recovery for each
year, 100% in five years.




                                               27
                     Table 10: WWTP Tariffs for Durres, Lezhe and Sarande
     Scenario Cash Cost Coverage            2011       2012        2013        2014        2015
                DURRES
 Cash O & M expenses (Euro)                487,286    456,601     456,601     456,601     744,208
 Hydraulic Load [m3/year]                3,504,000   3,504,000   3,504,000   3,504,000   7,358,400
 Case A: 100% recovery for each year,
 Weighted average tariffs (euro/m3)         0.14       0.13        0.13        0.13        0.10
 Weighted average tariffs (lek/m3)          18.8       17.6        17.6        17.6        13.7
 Case B: Progressively increasing cost
 recovery for each year, 100% in 5
                                            50%        60%         75%         80%        100%
   years (2015)
                                3
 Weighted average tariffs (lek/m )           9.4       10.6        13.2        14.1        13.7
                LEZHE
 Cash O & M expenses (Euro)                181,457   223,101     223,101     223,101     284,475
 Hydraulic Load [m3/year]                  700,800   700,800     700,800     700,800     700,800
 Case A: 100% recovery for each year,
 Weighted average tariffs (euro/m3)         0.26       0.32        0.32        0.32        0.41
 Weighted average tariffs (lek/m3)          35.0       43.0        43.0        43.0        54.8
 Case B: Progressively increasing cost
 recovery for each year, 100% in 5
                                            50%        60%         75%         80%        100%
   years (2015)
 Weighted average tariffs (lek/m3)          17.5       25.8        32.2        34.4        54.8
               SARANDE
 Cash O & M expenses (Euro)                197,703   237,423     237,423     237,423     308,082
 Hydraulic Load [m3/year]                  700,800   700,800     700,800     700,800     700,800
 Case A: 100% recovery for each year,
 Weighted average tariffs (euro/m3)         0.28       0.34        0.34        0.34        0.44
 Weighted average tariffs (lek/m3)          38.1       45.7        45.7        45.7        59.3
 Case B: Progressively increasing cost
 recovery for each year, 100% in 5
                                            50%        60%         75%         80%        100%
   years (2015)
                                3
 Weighted average tariffs (lek/m )          19.0       27.4        34.3        36.6        59.3
Source: Putignano s.r.l
Note: Euro : Lek 135 constant through 2015

(c) Incremental cost analysis

This ICR cannot confirm the achievement of the project goals based on outcome per GEF
dollar invested, because the construction of the wastewater treatment plants in Durres,
Lezhe and Sarande is expected to be completed and become operational in 2011, while
the GEF Grant Funds were fully committed and disbursed following the closing date of
the Grant Agreement, i.e. December 31, 2009.

As explained in the previous chapters, this project is a GEF-blended operation; the GEF
grant has helped leverage funds from EIB for additional activities related to the
construction of the wastewater treatment plants. This constituted the basis for the
incremental cost analysis. The incremental cost for achieving sustainable global
environmental benefits at appraisal was estimated at US$11.8 million; this amount has
increased to around US$28.6 million at the closing date of the GEF Grant Agreement.
This is expected to be the final cost at the completion of the project in 2011. Of this
amount, the GEF portion of financing remains the same amount set out in the Grant



                                                28
 Agreement, while the European Investment Bank will finance US$17.5 million and the
 Government of Albania will finance US$6.19 million7, upon the project completion (see
 Table 11 below).

                                       Table 11: Sources and Financing
                       GEF                       EIB                    GOA                    Total
                    (US$ million)            (US$ million)           (US$ million)          (US$ million)
                             Grant
                 Appraisal                Appraisal    2011       Appraisal     2011     Appraisal    2011
                             closing
Sewage
Pollution          3.96         4.04        6.29       17.5         0.68        6.19      10.93      27.73
Reduction
Environmental
Management         0.70         0.73        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.70        0.73
& Monitoring
Public
Communicatio                    0.00                                                                   0.00
                   0.13                     0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.13
n and
Replication
Project
Management,        0.08         0.10        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.08        0.10
M&E
Total              4.87         4.87        6.29       17.5         0.68        6.19      11.84      28.56

 In spite of the higher incremental cost, the project aims to capture global benefits by
 reducing land-based pollution from the three cities and protect and restore endangered
 coastal and marine habitats which will most probably be achieved upon the completion of
 the wastewater treatment plants in the cities of Durres, Lezhe and Sarande. The Removal
 Efficiency (RE%) set out at appraisal is expected to be achieved upon the completion of
 the plants8 (Tables 12 and 13 below).

                      Table 12: Quality of wastewater in Durres, Lezhe, Sarande
            after project intervention on Project CTW basic scheme-fully natural solution
                               Assumed Sewage                                           Expected median
                                                              Expected median
     Main Parameter           Inlet concentration                                      Outlet concentration
                                                                 of RE %
                                     (mg/l)                                                   (mg/l)
 BOD                                250-200                        70%                         75-60
 N-total                             60-50                         50%                         30-25
 P-total                             27-20                         25%                         20-15




 7
  This amount does not include the VAT
 8
  Removal Efficiency (RE%) is the ratio of the out-let concentration versus the in-let concentration of the
 wastewater pollutant.


                                                      29
                  Table 13: Quality of wastewater in Durres, Lezhe, Sarande
             after project intervention on Project CTW option with aerated ponds
                          Assumed Sewage                                  Expected median
                                                    Expected median
   Main Parameter        Inlet concentration                             Outlet concentration
                                                       of RE %
                                (mg/l)                                          (mg/l)
BOD                            250-200                    85%                    50-30
                                                    (range 30%-95%)
N-total                        60-50                      75%                      15-10
                                                    (range 20%-80%)
P-total                        27-20                      65%                      15-10
                                                    (range 20%-70%)

According to the analytical calculation at appraisal, the following Removal Efficiency
(RE%) are expected: BOD 70%, and fecal coliform removal of 95%, studies show the
CTW are effective at removing nutrients such as nitrogen (Re=50%) and phosphorous
(Re=25%).




                                               30
        Attachment to Annex 3
                          Durres Water And Sewerage Company - Financial Statements (000 Lek)
                                           Actual                                      Projection
                                            2009        2010            2011        2012        2013        2014        2015
       INCOME STATEMENT
                Revenues
Drinking Water                            389,623     479,554         741,810      906,656    1,097,054   1,316,465   1,465,122
Sewerage & WWTP                            47,139      58,019         155,532      171,334     194,369     220,915     290,270
Total invoiced revenues                   436,762     537,573         897,342     1,077,990   1,291,424   1,537,380   1,755,392
Other revenues                            135,774     122,197          44,867      53,900      64,571      76,869      87,770
Total revenues                            572,536     659,770         942,209     1,131,890   1,355,995   1,614,249   1,843,161
Collection ratio (%)                        54%         60%             89%          92%         93%         94%         95%
Collected revenues                        234,001     444,740         843,501     1,045,650   1,265,595   1,522,006   1,755,392
                Expenses
Electricity                               437,356     450,477          499,715     502,568     516,905     531,673     565,613
Personnel                                 141,505     145,750          168,915     175,298     179,936     184,714     193,394
Chemicals and materials                    26,866      27,672           32,491     34,696      35,577      36,484      40,443
Repairs & maintenance                      24,199      24,925           29,576     34,041      34,835      35,652      49,808
Contract services                          8,232       8,479            8,733       8,995       9,265       9,543       9,829
Other cash expenses                        10,045      10,346          14,032      14,351      14,681      15,020      15,369
Total cash operating expenses             648,203     667,649          753,462     769,950     791,199     813,086     874,456
                EBITDA                    (75,667)    (7,879)          188,747     361,940     564,795     801,163     968,705
Depreciation                               69,678     148,735          202,839     202,839     202,839     202,839     202,839
Provision for bad debt                                                  98,708     86,239      90,400      92,243      87,770
Total operating expenses                   717,881     816,385        1,055,009   1,059,028   1,084,438   1,108,168   1,165,065
Operating result (EBIT)                   (145,345)   (156,615)       (112,800)     72,861     271,557     506,081     678,096
Financial expenses                         25,506      25,000          25,000      25,000      25,000      25,000      25,000
IDA debt interest and financial charges
                                              -                        46,669      21,205      20,527      18,582      16,491
  (at 1.50%)
EIB subloan interest charges to DWSC
                                                                       81,453      84,778      79,438      74,623      69,809
  (at 1.50% upto 2008, 4.85% after)
               Total cost                  743,387     841,385        1,208,131   1,190,012   1,209,403   1,226,373   1,276,365
Net income before tax                     (170,851)   (181,615)       (265,922)    (58,122)    146,592     387,876     566,796
Corporate tax                                 -           -               -            -          -           -
          Net income after tax            (170,851)   (181,615)       (265,922)    (58,122)    146,592     387,876    566,796

Sources & Applications of Funds             2009        2010            2011        2012        2013        2014        2015
 Sources
Net Income                                (145,345)   (156,615)       (112,800)   72,861      271,557     506,081     678,096
Depreciation                               69,678      148,735         202,839    202,839     202,839     202,839     202,839
Provision for bad debt                        -           -             98,708    86,239       90,400      92,243     87,770
Change in working capital                                              (20,338)   (9,756)     (10,294)    (12,246)    (7,756)
1) IBRD Loan                               562,538    187,513          187,513
2) GEF-Grant                               224,818
3) GOA -Grant                              204,556    68,185          68,185
4) GOA -Taxes                              170,091    56,697          57,248
5) EU/IPA -Grant                              -          -            388,596
Total Sources                             1,086,336   304,516         481,355     352,184     554,502     788,917     960,949
Applications
1. Capital Expenditures                   1,162,003   312,395         701,542        -           -           -
2. Debt Service                               -          -            227,388     205,250     328,348     321,588     314,683
a) Interest on total subloan including
                                              -           -           128,122     105,983      99,965      93,205      86,300
   capitalization
IDA Credit                                                             46,669      21,205      20,527      18,582      16,491
EIB Loan                                                               81,453      84,778      79,438      74,623      69,809
b) Annual repayment of principal to
                                                                       99,266      99,266     228,383     228,383     228,383
   the Government
IDA Credit                                                                                    129,116     129,116     129,116
EIB Loan                                                              99,266      99,266      99,266      99,266      99,266
Total Applications                        1,162,003   312,395         928,931     205,250     328,348     321,588     314,683
Annual Cash Balance                       (75,667)     (7,879)        (447,576)   146,934     226,154     467,329     646,266


                                                                 31
                    Lezhe Water And Sewerage Company - Financial Statements (000 Lek)
                                         Actuals                                    Projection
                                          2009       2010             2011       2012        2013      2014      2015
    INCOME STATEMENTS
              Revenues
Drinking Water                           56,236     66,737          80,752      132,607    145,868    170,687   201,239
Sewerage & WWTP                           9,143     11,176          38,425      53,677      56,811     62,289    77,471
Total invoiced revenues                  65,379     77,913          119,177     186,284    202,678    232,976   278,710
Other revenues                           11,800     10,620          11,918      18,628      20,268     23,298    27,871
Total revenues                           77,179     88,533          131,095     204,913    222,946    256,274   306,581
Collection ratio (%)                      65%        70%             80%         90%         93%        94%       96%
Collected revenues                       42,545     54,539          107,259     186,284    208,759    242,295   295,432
              Expenses
Electricity                               46,447     47,840          58,884     62,284     63,807     65,375    69,873
Personnel                                 30,997     31,927          43,253     45,276     46,292     47,339    50,490
Chemicals and materials                    1,597      1,645          2,849       2,899      2,952      3,006     3,061
Repairs & maintenance                      6,417      6,610          7,474      10,341     10,552     10,768    14,321
Contract services                            -          -               -          -           -          -         -
Other cash expenses                       1,813       1,867          4,623       4,681      4,741      4,802     4,865
Total cash operating expenses             87,271     89,889         117,083     125,482    128,343    131,290   142,610
              EBITDA                     (10,092)    (1,356)         14,012     79,431     94,603     124,984   163,970
Depreciation                              29,000     29,000          55,975     55,975     55,975     55,975    55,975
Provision for bad debt                       -          -            23,835     18,628     14,187     13,979    11,148
Total operating expenses                 116,271    118,889         196,893     200,085    198,505    201,243   209,734
Operating result (EBIT)                  (39,092)   (30,356)        (65,798)     4,827      24,441     55,031    96,847
Financial expenses                                   15,000          15,000     15,000     15,000     15,000    15,000
IDA debt interest and financial
                                                                     2,002       2,030      1,951      1,765     1,580
  charges (at 1.50%)
EIB subloan interest and financial
                                                                     35,317     36,540      34,049    31,985    29,922
  charges to LWSC
             Total cost                  116,271    133,889          249,212    253,655    249,505    249,994   256,235
Net income before tax                    (39,092)   (45,356)        (118,117)   (48,742)   (26,559)    6,280    50,346
Corporate tax                                -          -               -           -          -         -          -
        Net income after tax             (39,092)   (45,356)        (118,117)   (48,742)   (26,559)    6,280     50,346

Sources & Applications of Funds           2009       2010             2011       2012       2013       2014      2015
                Sources
Net Income                               (39,092)   (30,356)        (65,798)     4,827      24,441    55,031    96,847
Depreciation                              29,000     29,000          55,975     55,975      55,975    55,975    55,975
Provision for bad debt                       -          -            23,835     18,628      14,187    13,979    11,148
Change in working capital                    -          -             (112)     (3,470)      (964)    (1,513)   (1,864)
1) IBRD Loan                             238,995     79,665          79,665
2) GEF-Grant                              96,411        -               -
3) GOA -Grant                             87,426     29,142          29,142
4) GOA -Taxes                             75,247     25,082          69,473
5) EU/IPA -Grant                             -          -           231,685
             Total Sources               487,986    132,533         192,179     75,961      93,640    123,471   162,107
             Applications
1. Capital Expenditures                  498,078    133,889         409,964
2. Debt Service                             -          -             79,867     81,117      90,920    88,671    86,423
a) Interest on total subloan including
                                            -          -             37,319     38,570      36,000    33,750    31,501
   capitalization
-IDA Credit                                                          2,002       2,030      1,951     1,765     1,580
-EIB Loan                                                            35,317     36,540      34,049    31,985    29,922
b) Annual repayment of principal to
                                                                     42,548     42,548      54,921    54,921    54,922
   the Government
-IDA Credit                                                                                 12,373    12,373    12,373
-EIB Loan                                                           42,548      42,548      42,548    42,548    42,549
          Total Applications             498,078    133,889         489,831     81,117      90,920    88,671    86,423

       Annual Cash Balance               (10,092)   (1,356)         (297,652)   (5,157)     2,720     34,800    75,684



                                                               32
                       Sarande Water And Sewerage Company -Financial Statements(000 Lek)
                                           Actual                                       Projection
                                            2009        2010             2011        2012        2013      2014      2015
      INCOME STATEMENTS
Revenues
Drinking Water                             57,239      79,127          123,438      149,771    178,014    208,276   240,675
Sewerage & WWTP                            7,844       14,594           50,332      62,393     70,196      79,255   99,283
Total invoiced revenues                    65,083       93,721         173,770      212,165    248,209    287,531   339,958
Other revenues                             14,154      12,739           8,689       10,608      12,410     14,377   16,998
Total revenues                             79,237      106,460         182,459      222,773    260,620    301,907   356,956
Collection ratio (%)                        73%          78%             85%         89%         92%        93%      95%
Collected revenues                         47,499       73,102         156,393      199,435    240,763    281,780   339,958
Expenses
Electricity                                26,482       26,482          38,363      41,399     42,242     43,110    47,330
Personnel                                  34,590       34,590          46,352      48,493     49,594     50,728    54,041
Chemicals and materials                    3,097        3,097           4,850        4,946      5,045      5,146     5,251
Repairs & maintenance                      12,923       12,923          13,829      16,301     16,712     17,135    21,640
Contract services                                          -               -            -          -         -         -
Other cash expenses                         6,020       6,020           8,901        9,087      9,278      9,476     9,679
Total cash operating expenses              83,112       83,112         112,295      120,226    122,871    125,595   137,941
EBITDA                                     (3,875)      23,348          70,164      102,547    137,749    176,312   219,015
Depreciation                               48,000       48,000          63,543      63,543     63,543     63,543    63,543
Provision for bad debt                                  20,619          17,377      12,730      7,446      5,751       -
Total operating expenses                   131,112     151,731         193,215      196,499    193,860    194,889   201,484
Operating result (EBIT)                    (51,875)    (45,271)        (10,756)      26,274     66,760    107,018   155,472
Financial expenses                          1,836       1,836           1,840        1,840      1,840      1,840     1,840
IDA debt interest and financial charges
                                                                        2,002        2,030      1,951      1,765     1,580
  (at 1.50%)
EIB subloan interest and financial
                                                                        30,197      31,242      29,112    27,348     25,583
  charges to SWSC
Total cost                                  132,948    153,567         225,252      229,581    224,812    224,077   228,907
Net income before tax                      (53,711)    (47,107)        (42,793)     (6,808)    35,808     77,831    128,049
Corporate tax                                  -
Net income after tax                      (53,711)    (47,107)         (42,793)    (6,808)    35,808     77,831     28,049

Sources & Applications of Funds             2009        2010             2011        2012       2013       2014      2015
                 Sources
Net Income                                 (51,875)    (45,271)        (10,756)     26,274      66,760    107,018   155,472
Depreciation                                48,000      48,000          63,543      63,543      63,543     63,543   63,543
Provision for bad debt                         -        20,619          17,377      12,730      7,446      5,751       -
Change in working capital                      -           -             (90)        535         159        164       833
1) IBRD Loan                               215,426      71,809          71,809
2) GEF-Grant                                75,133         -               -
3) GOA -Grant                               68,131      22,710          22,710
4) GOA -Taxes                               64,255      21,418          44,189
5) EU/IPA -Grant                               -           -           118,845
              Total Sources                419,070     139,285         208,782      103,083    137,908    176,476   219,848
Applications
1. Capital Expenditures                    422,945     115,937         257,552
2. Debt Service                               -           -             68,577      69,651      79,815    77,865     75,915
a) Interest on total subloan including
                                              -           -             32,198      33,272      31,063    29,113     27,163
   capitalization
-IDA Credit                                   -           -             2,002       2,030       1,951     1,765      1,580
-EIB Loan                                     -           -             30,197      31,242      29,112    27,348     25,583
b) Annual repayment of principal to
                                                                        36,379      36,379      48,752    48,752     48,752
   the Government
-IDA Credit                                   -           -               -            -        12,373    12,373     12,373
-EIB Loan                                     -           -            36,379       36,379      36,379    36,379     36,379
            Total Applications             422,945     115,937         326,130      69,651      79,815    77,865     75,915

        Annual Cash Balance                (3,875)     23,348          (117,348)     33,432     58,093    98,611    219,848



                                                                  33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                  Responsibility/
       Names                                Title                         Unit
                                                                                    Specialty
Lending
Andreas Rohde                    Team Leader/Sanitary Engineer           ECSIE
Claudio Purificato               Water and Sanitation Engineer           ECSIE
Arben Bakllmaja                            Consultant                    ECSIE
Takao Ikegami                       Senior Sanitary Engineer             ECSIE
Manuel Marino                    Water and Sanitation Specialist         ECSIE
Juderica Dias                          Program Assistant                 ECSIE
Rita Cestti                         Environmental Specialist             ECSSD
Hermine De Soto                         Social Specialist                ECSSD
Olav Christensen                Financial Management Specialist          ECSCS
Junko Funahashi                             Counsel                      LEGEC
Rohit Mehta                             Finance Officer                  LOAG1
Salim Benouniche                     Procurement Specialist              ECSPS
Ahmet Jehani                                Counsel                      LEGEC
Artan Guxho                              Project Officer                 ECSIE
Daniele Calabrese                  Communication Associate               EXTCD
Grazia Atanasio                     Communications Officer               EXTCD
Ede Ijjasz-Vasquez       Peer Reviewer/Senior Environmental Specialist    ENV
Phillip Brylski           Peer Reviewer/Senior Biodiversity Specialist   ECSSD
Paul Mitchel                        Peer Reviewer/Manager                EXTCD
Maria Teresa R. Lim                    Program Assistant                 ECSIE
Susanne Szymanski                          Consultant                    ECSIE
Kishore Nadkarni                       Financial Analyst                 ECSIE
Jennifer Ngaine                        Program Assistant                 ECSIE
Supervision/ICR
                                      Task Team Leader/
Michael John Webster                                                     ECSS6
                             Senior Water & Sanitation Specialist
Lynette Alemar                     Senior Program Assistant              ECSSD
Arben Bakllamaja                          Consultant                     ECSSD
Salim Benouniche                 Lead Procurement Specialist             MNAPR
Hermine De Soto                           Consultant                     EASVS
Majed El-Bayya                   Lead Procurement Specialist             ECSC2
Elona Gjika                    Financial Management Specialist           ECSPS
Artan Guxho                             Projects Officer                 ECSS5
Elda Hafizi                            Program Assistant                 ECCAL
Bekim Imeri                             Social Scientist                 ECSS4
Enkelejda Karaj                        Program Assistant                 ECCAL
Maria Teresa R. Lim                    Program Assistant                 ECSSD
Shelley Mcmillan                    Water Resources Spec.                AFTWR
Ida N. Muhoho               Senior Financial Management Specialist       ECSC3
Norval Stanley Peabody                    Consultant                      EASIS
Claudio Purificato                        Consultant                     EASCS
Amelito Velasco                      Procurement Assistant               ECSC2
Ulrich Zeidler                            Consultant                     ECSSD



                                               34
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
     Stage of Project Cycle                               USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                                                40.72
  FY03                                                                97.54
  FY04                                                                83.61
  FY05                                                                -0.02
  FY06                                                                 0.02
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                 0.00
                          Total:                                     221.87
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                                                 0.00
  FY03                                                                 0.00
  FY04                                                                17.92
  FY05                                                                79.41
  FY06                                                                67.57
  FY07                                                                66.37
  FY08                                                                98.84
                          Total:                                     330.11




                                       35
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable




                                      36
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                   37
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


No comments were received.




                                  38
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


No comments were received.




                                    39
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


   ·   Country Assistance Strategy for Albania for FY02-05, June 20, 2002
   ·   Country Assistance Strategy for Albania for FY06-09, January 10, 2006
   ·   Project Information Document
   ·   Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 27957, February 24, 2004
   ·   Grant Agreement
   ·   Feasibility studies and Consultants reports (Various)
   ·   Environmental Assessment
   ·   Financial Management Supervision Reports
   ·   Investment Plans (Various)
   ·   Project Management and Audit Reports (Various)
   ·   Aide memoires
   ·   Implementation Status and Results Reports
   ·   Monthly and Quarterly Project Progress Reports




                                         40
41
