Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT NO 21544
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-38350; SCPM-3835S; SCL-3835A)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF DM 29.58 MILLION
(US$18.0 MILLION)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
FOR A HEALTH PROJECT
AUGUST 5, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 1995: US$1=EEK8)
Currency Unit = ESTONIAN KROON (EEK)
EEK 17.37 = US$ 1.0
US$ 0.06 = EEK 1.0
FISCAL YEAR
JANUARY 1 - DECEMBER 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ALOS          Average Length of Stay (in hospitals)
CHIA          Central Health Insurance Agency
CPAR          Country Procurement Assessment Report
DALY          Disability Adjusted Life Year
DPT           Diphtheria, Tetanus, Pertussis
DSL           Department of Standards and licensing
DRG           Diagnostic Related Group
EU-PHARE   European Union Pologne Hongrie Action pour la Reconversion Economique
ECU           European Currency Unit
GPD           Gross Domestic Proudct
GP            General Practitioner (Family Doctor)
HPS           Health Protection Services (San-Epid)
HMIS          Health Management Information Systems
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IPPF          International Planned Parenthood Federation
JEXIM         Japan Export/Import Bank
MIS           Management Information Systems
MOSA          Ministry of Social Affairs
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NIS           Newly Independent States
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
PHC           Primary Health Care
PHRD          Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
QA            Quality Assurance
OECD          Organization for Economic Development and Cooperation
San-Epid      Predecessor of Health Protection Service
SOE           Statement of Expenditure
TOR           Terms of Reference
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
WHO/EURO   World Health Organization/Europe
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager/Director:    Annin H. Fidler
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Toomas Palu



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Infornation
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008402                                        Project Nanme: HEALTH
Team Leader: Toomas Palu                                   TL Unit. ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: December 14, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: HEALTH                                          L/C/TFNtumber: CPL-38350;
SCPM-3835S;
SCL-3835A
CountiyyDepartment: ESTONIA                                               Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: HR - Reform and Financing
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/22/93                                 Effective: 04/26/95           07/10/95
Appraisal:  03/15/94                                   MTR: 11/30/96              02/11/97
Approval:  01/19/95                                 Closing: 07/01/99            07/01/2000
Bor-ower/lImplementing Agency: Govemment of Estonia/Ministry of Social Affairs
Other Partners: Finland, Canada, Denmark, The Netherlands, Sweden, Germany, Norway
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                           Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:     Basil G. Kavalsky                          Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:       Armin H. Fidler                            James Q. Harrison
Team Leader at ICR:   Toomas Palu                               Antonio Campos
ICR Primary Author:  Imre Hollo; Silviu Calin
Radulescu; Patricia L.
Kleysteuber
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Developnment Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
At the time of appraisal, Estonia had just entered a period of socio-economic transition to become one of
the more successful reformers of the countries of the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. Thanks
to its solid macroeconomic performance, Estonia was the first NIS country to be invited to the EU
accession negotiations. Although health sector reforms had been initiated along with other
socio-economic reforms, there was limited impact on the worsening health indicators as indicated in the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR):
(i) crisis in adult male health conditions (due to non-communicable diseases)
leading to significant health status gap between Estonia and countries of European Union and
Scandinavia;
(ii) excessive rates of abortions and inadequate access to contraception;
(iii) inefficient use of health care resources, in particular, overcapacity of hospital
sector and low bed occupation rates
(iv) state of disrepair and obsolescence of health care facilities and equipment;
(v) large number of specialists and complete lack of family doctors;
(vi) inadequate health financing arrangements, including fragile collection system
and lack of basic accounting procedures
In light of these problems, the objectives of the project were to provide support for the health reform
efforts initiated by the Govemment to improve the health status of Estonia's population and improve
financial sustainability through sdecific activities to: (i) reorient health services to promoting healthy
lifestyles emphasizing health promotion and disease prevention programs; (ii) developing human
resources by strengthening modern public health training, integrated pre-clinical medical training, and
continuing education for doctors, administrators and other health personnel; and (iii) support the on-going
health financing reform to ensure its sustainability, cost-effectiveness and equity through establishing
sound cost, performance analysis and health management information systems.
In retrospect, the ICR team concludes that the original objectives of the Project were well chosen and
addressed the core structural problems in health sector. The Estonia Health Project was the first health
project in the former Soviet Union and among the very first health projects in the Eastern-Europe.
Subsequent health projects in the regions have reached similar diagnosis of the health sector problems
in countries with similar historical and transition context. In retrospect it can also be said that successful
implementation of the project validated that the level of ambition and complexity of the project was
manageable for Estonian Government. This success, however, is country-specific as Estonia has shown
itself to be a good overall performer in implementing complex structural reforms in the economic and
social spheres.
3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A
3.3 Original Components:
The Project consisted of four components (see below) which were generally implemented as appraised
and matched well the Project Development Objectives mentioned above. As the Project is recognized
to have been highly satisfactory in implementation, one concludes that it also was appropriate to the
capacity of the Borrower and was the right fit in all aspects of design and implementation. The Project's
components were:
A. HEALTH SYSTEMS REORIENTATION
A.1. Institutional Develooment and Realignment of MSA (US$4.29 million olanned cost) The
activities were to strengthen the Ministry's capacity to facilitate health reform and improve efficiency
through: (i) health policy and economic analysis and health management information systems; (ii)
hospital efficiency enhancement, including facilities planning and re-design, hospital management
- 2 -



development and medical equipment support, (iii) quality assurance and accreditation of health
facilities, and licensing of health professionals; and (iv) primary and family health services
reorientation.
A.2. Health Promotion and Disease Prevention (US$1.9 million planned cost) Activities under this
subcomponent were to support: (i) annual funding of health promotion programs in support of local
initiatives; and (ii) national campaigns on promotion and prevention related to four priority areas:
anti-smoking, cardiovascular and heart disease prevention, injury control, women's health and family
planning.
B. HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
B.1. Strenathen Departments of Public Health and Family Medicine of the University of Tartu
(US$1.08 million Mlanned cost) Activities under this subcomponent were to develop the faculty and
programs of the recently established Department of Public Health and Family Medicine,
strengthening the public health and family medicine training for doctors and other health
professionals at the University of Tartu.
B.2. Creation of a Center for Continuing Education for Health Sector Professionals (US$0.91 million
planned cost) This activity was to support the establishment of the Center under governance of the
Ministry of Social Affairs and the academic guidance of the medical faculty of the University of Tartu.
B.3. Building a Biomedical and Sciences Complex Buildina ("Biomedicum") in the University of Tartu
(US$21.08 million planned cost) This activity was to support the design, building, and furnishing and
equipping of the Biomedicum.
C. FINANCIAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT EFFICIENCY
C.1. Local Provider-Health Insurance Interface (US$3.37 million planned cost) This activity was
designed to improve the utilization of limited resources through introduction of modern accounting
methods in the central and local insurance funds and local providers, improved health insurance
revenue collection and enforcement of employer/employee contributions and reporting, improved
contracting practices, and through capacity development in financial management.
C.2. Central Health Insurance Aaencv Institutional Develooment (US$1.01 million glanned cost)
This sub-component was to develop the capacity of the Agency to design, implement, and monitor
planning and operating systems, including budgeting, quality control, actuarial modeling, service
demand and supply modeling, and accounting and auditing procedures. In addition, the activity
would support development of databases for monitoring clinical and cost effectiveness of health
services.
D. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION
D.1. Proiect Coordination Unit (PCU) (US$0.87 million planned cost) This component supported the
establishment, development, and operation of a PCU, which included project monitoring, accounting,
procurement, responsibilities under the MSA., and included coordinators at, the University of Tartu,
and the Central Health Insurance Agency.
3.4 Revised Components:
N/A
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated as satisfactory. The project was generally well prepared and appraised, through
five missions over a period of 11 months. The relatively short period from Identification to Appraisal is
indicative of priority and ownership on the side of the Government, which in turn facilitated the work of
the Bank allowing both teams to work in close partnership, maintaining their team composition and focus.
- 3 -



Bank missions were well staffed with the appropriate range of experts -- health care services, primary
and public health; health sector financing, management, and administration; health facilities planning
and design; medical training and continuing education, and operations experts (see Annex 4). The fact
that the Project was not amended during implementation, and had a successful outcome is clear
evidence of quality at entry.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outtcome/achievement of objective:
(i) To emphasize health promotion and disease prevention programs to increase awareness of
healthy lifestyles and to enhance efficiency and quality of health services. DO Rating: Satisfactov
Activities carried out as part of the project have established mechanisms of financing of health promotion
and disease prevention activities, developed capacity of relevant institutions and put in place processes
that have enhanced the role, broadened the ownership and modernized the content of health promotion
and disease prevention interventions. At the beginning of the project, the Government committed 1% of
health insurance proceeds for health promotion activities (thus exceeding the Bank recommendation of
0.5%), and although towards the end of the project there has been some fallback of this commitment in
real terms (in CY 1999 health insurance spent 0.47% of it's budget on health promotion), the
establishment of earmarked funding and the development of institutional capacity to use these resources
according to transparent criteria, in partnership with NGOs and local authorities, represents a major
achievement of the Project.
The Project achieved most project impact targets that were selected in the initial project design and this
can be partly attributed to the health promotion activities carried out during the life of the Project (see
Annex 1). The project monitored selected health behavior (smoking, dietary habits, contraceptive use,
etc.) as well as selected aggregate health status indicators (e.g. coronary heart disease death rate).
However, one must note that there are a number of confounding factors influencing health status from
which Project inputs were only a fraction. There are two targets which were not achieved: decreased
mortality from coronary heart disease and injuries. However there are several observations to be made
regarding this "failure" to achieve targets: (i) there is a time lag between interventions and mortality from
coronary heart disease explaining lack of short and medium term improvements; (ii) different data
source for statistical data on mortality from injuries and poisonings: the ICR team could not certify the
original SAR baseline estimates that were derived from then incomplete Trauma Register. When
comparing the baseline and outcome indicators from standardised mortality database then the project
outcome was no change compared to 10% decrease aimed by the project (see also Annex 1). This is
much better than the suggested increase by 127% in males and 76% in females when comparing official
mortality data in 1999 with the SAR baseline. From the point of view of project design, indicators
measuring factors influencing health (smoking, diet, exercise) were more appropriate than unspecified
mortality indicators, influenced by too many factors and/or affected by long lags between intervention
and outcome.
Another important outcome for health promotion is increased local community involvement in health
promotion activities as evidenced by increased number of projects and increased share of funding for
local health promotion initiatives. In 1995, there were 100 applicants for local activities from which 20
were funded. This compares to 533 applications and 314 funded projects in 2000. In 1995, 20% of
health promotion funds were spent on local projects; by 2000 the share has increased to 60%.
The Project supported activities to establish robust prioritization and evaluation of health promotion
projects according to their cost-effectiveness and expected impact. Work in this area is ongoing as there
will be pressures to achieve this in a consolidation phase over the coming years, a period during which
ensuring stability of funding for health promotion will be not only a continuous challenge but also an
incentive for more careful evaluation. Several important inputs were provided by the project for this
process and challenges ahead can be faced with reasonable optimism, based mainly on the health
promotion constituency developed in Estonia over the life of the Project.
- 4 -



The institutional development and realignment in the Ministry of Social Affairs (MSA), aimed at
enhancing efficiency and quality of the services, has produced prerequisites required to achieve the
latter part of the stated objective. The public health and economic analysis capacity of the Ministry has
improved: high quality assessments of health problems, hospital capacity and financing patterns have
been produced, and quality assurance strategies were developed. These important preconditions need
now to be institutionalized and translated into policy decisions and interventions. The evaluation of the
hospital services went one step further, adding to the assessment of current problems a long term plan
for hospital restructuring (Hospital Masterplan). The activities carried out under the project are
necessary but not sufficient to achieve the objective of health service quality and efficiency
improvements. In particular, further realignment of financial incentives is needed. The project could
have benefited from better evaluation indicators to prove the impact of project activities on quality and
efficiency of health services. This may indicate a possible shortcoming in project design.
(ii) Developing human resources by strengthening modern public health training, integrated
pre-clinical medical training, and continuing education for public health doctors, family doctors,
health insurance and hospital administrators and other health personnel. DO Rating: Highly
Satisfactorv
The Departments of Public Health and Family Medicine at the University in Tartu are well staffed and
resourced, and are providing high quality programs. The capacity of the departments was assessed by
international peer reviewers and received favorable evaluations at the conclusion of the Project.
Training and retraining provided by the Family Medicine Department has contributed significantly to
creating a critical mass of Family Doctors in the country for the provision of higher quality, more efficient
care to a majority of Estonian population. By August 2000, 515 family doctors had completed training
and 116 more doctors were in training. By the end of project, about 927,000 people (2/3 of Estonia
population) were served by licensed family doctors. The Family Medicine specialization enjoys strong
identity and credibility among health professionals in Estonia. The Department of Family Medicine has
also become an intemationally recognized center providing technical assistance to other countries in the
ECA region (Armenia, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Tajikistan) and by participating in international peer
organizations (WONCA - World Organization of National Colleges and Associations of General Practice).
The Department of Public Health, housed in the Biomedicum, proved to be a key investment under the
Project, which has not only become a center of excellence in training but also is becoming an important
contributor to policy debate through applied research.
The capacity for continuing education for doctors, administrators, nurses and other health personnel is
also in place and a large number of staff has attended courses of the Training Center of Public Health (in
total 2284 participants in 164 courses). To further improve the client responsiveness and academic
excellence, the governance of the Center would need strategic oversight from the Ministry of Social
Affairs, representation of health care providers, and strong academic presence from the University of
Tartu.
The Biomedicum building has been completed, is equipped, and proper maintenance arrangements are
in place. The building provides high standards of accommodation for all pre-clinical disciplines of the
Tartu University Medical School, Department of Public Health and State Agency of Medicines.
Moreover, the Medical School has also revised and updated its curriculum to give more importance to
family and community oriented disciplines, and so starting to move away from the excessively clinical
specialties' oriented training and is also opening towards more innovative and participatory teaching
methods.
(iii) Support the on-going health financing reform to ensure its sustainability, cost-effectiveness
and equity through establishing sound cost, performance analysis and health management
information systems. DO Rating: Satisfactory
The Project has supported the Central Sickness Fund (CSF) to become a mature bureaucracy with its
information systems and management procedures in place. The CSF is effective in administering
- 5 -



financial transactions with health care providers and also increased transparency of its workings. CSF
financial reports, contracting procedures and patient information is available to interested parties on the
CSF website (httP://www.csf.ee). The health services contracting system introduced with health care
providers has proven to be effective in containing the overall cost and volume of services through
enforcing hard contractual budget constraints. In addition, there have been some efficiency
improvements through reductions in the number of local insurance funds from 22 to 17. The Project
supported the CSF through training and information system development in parallel with EU/PHARE
supported technical assistance.
The Project was less effective in achieving its intended impact on restructuring the health sector.
Although this objective mostly focused on institutional development of health insurance systems, the
implicit goal was that an effective institution would be able to exert more impact through selective
contracting of providers and improving incentives by replacing fee-for-service hospital reimbursement
schemes with prospective case based price-volume budgets. Over 80% of all health care expenditures
are still directed towards hospitals and specialized care. The Central Sickness Fund contracts all of the
78 public hospitals (with very small catchment areas) of the country. However, the CSF has completely
overhauled the financing of Family Practices from moving from a fee-based to mixed capitation payment
financing system. In this area, the CSF is leading among ECA countries.
At the time of conclusion of the Project, the Parliament passed the Health Insurance Fund Law that
effectively consolidates the 17 funds into one and opens avenues to revise hospital payment models and
prices while focusing on quality. Furthermore, the health insurance system will have to become a major
player in implementing the recently approved Hospital Masterplan through design of long term funding
paths for selected health care providers. In this respect, the Project supported activities have laid
foundation for the health insurance fund becoming more effective player to implement Government
policies.
Only a few indicators were designed to measure the success of this DO. Several indicators became
irrelevant during the implementation of the project, e.g. the Sickness Funds are not concerned about
contribution collection since this function has been moved to the Tax Agency. The indicators could have
better designed to reflect progress towards specific targets on sustainability (effective contracting),
cost-effectiveness (interventions financed, specific incentives imbedded in health financing
mechanisms), and equity (measuring access to services across socio-economic groups and regions).
4.2 Outputs by components:
ComDonent A. HEALTH SYSTEM REORIENTATION
This component was implemented by the Ministry of Social Affairs. It consisted of several
sub-components.
Sub-component A.1. Institutional Development and Realignment of the Ministry of Social Affairs
(Actual Cost: US$ 5.74 Million) Implementation Rating: Satisfactory
This sub-component was to assist implementation of the Government policy to decentralize the health
system and change the MSA's role from administration of health services to leadership in setting sector
policies, priorities and norms.
(a) Health Policy and Economic Analysis
This activity aimed at institutionalizing policy and economic analysis capacity in the MSA to help the
policy-makers to define and adopt policies, strategies and priorities that would be followed by the local
health services. The activity had three agreed outputs: establishment of a Health Policy and Economic
Analysis Unit, establish National Health Accounts (NHA), and produce a Public Health Strategy Paper
("Health of the Nation" report).
(i) Health Policy and Economic Analysis Unit in the MSA. Establishing the Unit and appointment of
-6 -



its director was a condition of loan effectiveness. However, over the life of the project the Unit has
been re-established several times under different accountability arrangements. This reflects a
difficult transition of thinking in the MSA as to the need and use for adequate information for policy
making. By the conclusion of the Project, a small unit had been established with two junior
professional staff under the EU integration department. The staff was trained by the Project and the
Unit has produced a Strategic Action Plan for the Ministry of Social Affairs until 2010. This
document summarizes many of the important issues and outlines the main activity areas for all
sectors supervised by the MSA. The evaluation team had the impression that the unit is a bit
isolated from the real health policy decision making. It is important that the MSA further strengthen
the Unit and mainstream its activities through everyday policy making and monitoring.
(ii) National Health Accounts. As an important input for economic analysis of the health sector,
Estonia is among the first countries of the region to successfully launch implementation of National
Health Accounts (a systematic review of sources and usage of health care financing) with the support
from the Project. The first accounts were produced for 1998. Building on this initial success further
development are warranted: development of a proper system for data collection, classification,
translation of categories, primary data collection (e.g. for informal payments), etc. The NHA are
produced by the Medical Statistics department of the MSA and it seems that sustainability of this
undertaking is secured.
(iii) Public Health Strateav Paper. Estonia has published a public health report. The report does a
good job of describing the current situation and problems but is less strong in setting clear
Government priorities in public health, setting targets and operational strategies to achieve the
objectives as well as defining responsibilities of different actors vis-a-vis public health functions. It
should be noted though that to some extent the Strategic Action Plan of the Ministry of Social Affairs
addresses public health issues. The ICR evaluation thinks that Estonia still needs to make the next
steps and consolidate the analysis in the public health report and parts of the MSA Strategic Action
Plan into one operational Public Health Strategy.
Overall the sub-component has reached its goal in affecting the way the MSA operates in many ways
and has created a sound basis for further developments.
(b) Hospital Efficiency Enhancement
The main outputs of this activity were hospital masterplan, training hospital managers, facility planning
and redesign, and medical equipment support program.
(i) Hospital Masterplan. Estonia struggles with the Soviet heritage in terms of excessive physical
infrastructure. In spite of sizable hospital and hospital bed closures (during the project period the
hospital bed fall was in Estonia fastest in the ECA region), the country of 1,5 million inhabitants still
has 78 hospitals (27 of them can be regarded as acute care hospitals) with 10,500 beds (of which
8,200 are acute beds). The project supported the preparation of a Hospital Masterplan which would
be implemented in three stages. A Bed Needs Assessment funded by Danish donor assistance
provided important information for pre-feasibility study for Tartu University Hospital (the key health
services provider for South Estonia) and preparation of National Hospital Masterplan (NHMP). By
the conclusion of the Project, NHMP has been approved by the Government and constitutes the
main part for the Estonia Health Sector Development Plan for 2015. The plan proposes to radically
reduce the current acute care infrastructure (decrease the number of acute hospitals from 27 to 13
and the number of beds from 8,200 to 3,100); convert some secondary hospitals to health care
centers with specialist out-patient care and to nursing homes; close or merge mono-profile hospitals
witb multipurpose hospitals; modernize and renovate the remaining infrastructure. This plan is one
of the very first systematic reviews of hospital sector capacity in the region with clear
recommendations and Government ownership.
(ii) Training in Hosgital Manaaement. This activity was implemented by Swedish and Danish donor
assistance and monitored by the project monitoring instrument (Annex 1). In total 100 hospital
managers were trained in hospital administration.
- 7 -



(iii) Facility Planning and Redesign. The responsible staff in the MSA and other agencies (12
people) received training and technical assistance in facility planning and developed a number of
guidelines for functional planning and standards for health care institutions. The coordinator of this
component was also actively involved in the development of the hospital master plan. It is important
to note that several guidelines/standards have already been mainstreamed to practice through
ministerial decrees. and that there seems to be compliance with the standards. These standards will
gain increasing importance, when the hospital master plan will be implemented, as it will become an
important tool in pursuing the restructuring agenda. Project monitoring indicators (Annex 1)
monitored the progress of this activity.
(iv) Medical EguiDment SuDDort. The project supported a survey of medical equipment in Estonian
hospitals, purchase of medical equipment maintenance kits for all hospitals and certificate training of
medical engineers in medical equipment maintenance and quality control. At the time of evaluation,
the medical equipment maintenance kits were still to be distributed to hospitals (delay is caused by a
need for secure storing of kits in the hospitals and the recommendation of the final report of the
study still to be mainstreamed into practice.
(c) Accreditation of Health Facilities, Licensing of Health Professionals and Quality Assurance
This activity was to refine the processes of standard setting development and accreditation; (b) define
the location and organizational arrangements for accreditation of health facilities and licensing of health
personnel and quality assurance. The key outputs under this activity were a Health Care Quality
Assurance Strategy and practice guidelines.
(i) Health Care Quality Assurance Strategy. The strategy was developed with the Netherlands donor
assistance and has been adopted by the Government. The Strategy makes important
recommendations about where responsibilities for quality assurance should lie in the health sector,
including limited delegated self regulation of medical professions and establishing an autonomous
licensing and accreditation agency. However, the implementation of the strategy has been delayed
because of limited staff in the MSA and general Government policy towards consolidation of various
quasi-public agencies.
(ii) Practice Guidelines. A number of guidelines for diagnostic and treatment methods have been
issued by the Government. The guidelines were developed based mainly on medical effectiveness
by credible clinicians improving acceptance among health professionals. Since the project design,
the cutting edge approach to guidelines development in health care now includes systematic reviews
of evidence and incorporation of cost-effectiveness into these guidelines and standards (with the
help of health economists). These evolving methodologies need now to be mainstreamed into
guidelines development.
(d) Primary Health Care and Health Protection Reorientation
Component activities aimed to redesign functions for family doctors, county doctors, community and
town physicians, and health protection staff supplementing MSA activities in decentralization, integration
of curative and preventive programs and diversifying ownership. The key outputs from this component
were PHC policies at the MSA and equipment kits for first wave of Family Practitioners, training
programs for public health officials, equipment for health protection laboratories and During the project
implementation period, the Tallinn Primary Health Care Pilot project was added financed from savings
from other activities. Retraining of Family Doctors at the Department of Family Medicine is dealt under
Component B.
(i) Primary Health Care. The project has supported a working group of the MSA that developed
strategic plans for primary care and preparation of studies regarding economic evaluation of the
reform in primary care, population attitudes towards primary care, legislative aspects of the reform,
practice equipment and quality in primary care. Policy was mainstreamed into practices through a
Government Decree.
-8 -



To support the first wave of independent Family Practitioners, 26 equipment kits were procured to
be distributed to Family Practitioners through a revolving fund managed by the Association of Family
Practitioners. Because of legal obstacles, the revolving fund mechanism did not become
operational and after some delay, the kits were distributed gratis. However, this lesson prompted to
redesign the planned second procurement batch of equipment kits into targeted support of lagging
introduction of Family Medicine in Tallinn.
Tallinn PHC Pilot Project was carried out in 1998-2000. Tallinn was the only area where primary
care provision by independent family doctors had not yet expanded successfully. Four alternative
models of family medicine services provision and possible modalities of integrating it with prevalent
policlinic system, were assessed from the point of view of quality and efficiency of the services. The
pilot project supported pilot practices with computer equipment and training, study tours to Finland
and implemented a rigorous monitoring instruments. The pilot concluded that best performance was
achieved by private family practitioners operating as a group either within or separate from the
policlinics. The project broke ground by launching Family Medicine in the capital city Tallinn and by
the time of writing the ICR the implementation of the Family Practice based PHC reform is now
integrated in the Tallinn City Health Care Development Plan.
(ii) Health Protection. The project has contributed to the consolidation of the Health Protection
Service, reorganized based on legislation of 1995. Short term training in applied epidemiology,
surveillance and control of diseases, food surveillance, clinical microbiology, chemistry was
organized, attended by a total number of 1300 participants from health protection and county public
health service. The activities were supported by Finnish donor assistance. The project supported
Master degree studies for 5 public health system staff who all continue to work in the system.
Laboratory equipment (including laminar flux camera, sets for chemical labs, liquid chromatography
equipment) as well as information technology and communication equipment was procured for the
Tallinn central virology and chemistry and the Tartu regional Health Protection Agency laboratories
that significantly improved their capacity.
Sub-component A.2. Health Promotion and Disease Prevention (Actual Cost US$0.73 Million)
Implementation Rating: Satisfactory
This component supported mainly four major health promotion and disease prevention programs in the
areas of heart disease prevention, tobacco control, accident prevention and family planning. These
public health areas were selected during the project preparation and were deemed as top Government
public health priorities. The project also intended to support local health promotion activities that during
the project implementation were fully taken over and funded from earmarked 1% of the Health Insurance
Fund revenue. This earmark was negotiated through policy dialogue during project preparation and
marks a significant commitment by the Government to modern public health approach. The health
promotion funds where allocated annually by the Public Health Development Council on a competitive
basis according to pre-announced criteria. Significant resources, provided by the Finnish Government,
supported activities spread over one year for preparation of the application selection and evaluation
process. Competitors were either existing programs, as those run by the Center of Health Promotion in
Tallinn (established in 1993) or proposed by spontaneous applicants, public and private. There was an
increasing trend in the number of application, projects funded and proportion of local initiatives versus
national initiatives during the life of the project (in 1995 61 projects were funded compared to 314 in
1 999).
The project has supported publication of 58 books, 126 booklets, 15 video cassettes, 18 posters and
many other public health promotional materials. The project has also supported annual media
campaigns, including Heart Week, Trauma Day, Anti-Tobacco Days, Cancer Week, Milk Festival, etc. to
promote healthy behaviour.
Quality assurance of health promotion activities has been a concern, dealt with in an increasingly
systematic way over the life of the project. Every year since 1996 all health promotion projects carried
-9-



out during the previous year were presented in a conference, which also designated the best projects of
the year. Project terms of reference included performance measurement criteria and audits of randomly
selected projects were carried out since 1998. An evaluation of health promotion activities by experts
from the Toronto University, Ministry of Social Affairs and the Center for Health Education carried out in
1999 recommended strengthening of evaluation for health promotion programs by including efficiency
assessments of various interventions and inclusion of a mandatory evaluation module in each project. It
was also recommended to change the balance in health promotion from mainly focusing on education
and information towards other more aggressive and efficient advocacy and policy activities. The project
also supported training of Estonian experts in evaluation of public health programs by their Australian
peers.
The project also supported establishment of 15 youth counseling centers in several Estonian cities,
providing counseling, medical and psychological services to young adults regarding family planning, sex
education and STD prevention and treatment.
Component B. HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
The activities under this component supported modern public health and family medicine training,
updated curricula and facilities for pre-clinical medical training and continuing education programs for
health and allied professionals to bring the quality of these key health sector human resources to the
standards of Western countries.
Sub-component B.1. Strengthen the Departments of Public Health and Polyclinic and Family
Medicine at Tartu University (Actual Cost: US$1.21 Million) Implementation Rating: Highly
Satisfactory
The planned outputs of this component were institutionally strengthened Department of Public Health
and the Department of Family Medicine at Tartu University and enhanced quality of the training
programs provided by the two departments, assessed by peer review mechanisms, as well as improved
integration and status of public health and family medicine training in the training provided by the
medical school.
(i) Department of Public Health employs at the end of the project a number of 14 teaching staff, who
have received training abroad at MSc/MPH or PhD level, mostly financed through project resources.
Financing of teaching positions, covered approximately 50% from Estonia Health Project funds until
mid 2000, has been smoothly taken over by the University of Tartu, ensuring sustainability of staffing
developments. The teaching hours of disciplines of public health, provided to students in the
second, third and fifth year, increased from 4% to 6.5% in the new curriculum of medical students.
Financial involvement and willingness to allocate more hours to public health training also
demonstrates enhanced support and appreciation of University authorities for the activity of the
department. The Public Health Department moved to new offices in the Biomedicum building in
1999, where it has access to state of the art equipment for research and teaching purposes,
communication facilities as well as very good conditions for the work of the staff.
An additional element to ensure relevance of training offered by the department and financial
sustainability are the links and involvement of staff in the policy work of various committees of the
Ministry of Social Affairs, as well as the approval by Government in August 1998 of the National
Program of Research and Development in Public Health for the years 1999-2009, to be funded by up
to EEK 7 million per year. From this program, the Department received in 1999 five grants (EEK
60N,000 total), in addition to research funds from the Estonian Science Foundation and European
Union support for international projects.
The report of the peer review carried out in May 1999 by a team from ASPHER (Association of
Schools of Public Health of the European Region), appreciated positively the development of public
health training provided in terms of focus and content. The team also made constructive
- 10 -



recommendations for better coordination between various elements of the training program and
increased use of more active and participatory training methods. The review regarded staffing as
appropriate in terms of numbers and basic competence and recommended to move into a phase of
consolidation and further professional development of existing staff.
(ii) Department of Polyclinic and Family Medicine. Department has at the time of Project closing 6
teaching staff, who have all participated in international training courses of teachers of general
practice/family medicine, mainly short term (32 one-two week courses/visits, 2 two months training
attachments) supported by the project. One new academic staff has been trained in a master degree
program at the University of Toronto, Canada. The department has also established a network of
tutors, 32 of them, spread all over Estonia, being involved in postgraduate training, while 20, located
in Tartu, participate in undergraduate training. New family medicine training programs for
undergraduates in year 2 and 6 of the medical school, residency, specialization and training of
trainers have been developed and implemented. As part of the project, the department has been
equipped with adequate teaching materials, including video-consultation facilities, computers and
skills laboratory. Staff has been trained to the use of new teaching methods and equipment. The
department has also produced a set of educational material in the Estonian language, including the
first edition of textbook of family medicine in Estonian. Teaching materials in Russian and English
and software programs for computer aided teaching of general practitioners were also produced.
Until mid 2000, the number of family doctors that have attended retraining, receiving specialist
certificates was 515, with 57 graduating in 1999. A residency program was also started, for medical
graduates wishing to pursue specialization in family medicine. In 1999 there were 38 residents in fuli
time training, compared to only one in 1993. The department has also 4 PhD students.
The peer review conducted in spring 1999 by medical teaching experts from UK and Slovenia
concluded: "The Department of Family Medicine has established itself very well. It has also made
an excellent use of the resources that were made available by the loan from the World Bank and has
managed to fulfill every obligation within the contract. It is promising to be one of the leading
departments of the Medical Faculty in the future especially if the Tartu Medical Faculty decides to
modify its curriculum towards problem based learning."
The quality of training and retraining programs provided by the Family Medicine Department has
contributed significantly to Family Practitioners having acquired over the last few years a strong
identity among other medical specialties, establishing a strong professional society and, ultimately,
increasing their contribution in the provision of higher quality, more efficient care to a majority of
Estonian population. It is estimated that more than two thirds of the total population of Estonia (i.e.
ca 927, 000 persons) are currently served by licensed family doctors. Surveys commissioned by the
Government and Health Insurance Fund have shown steady increase in public confidence and
satisfaction with the institution of a family doctor.
Sub-component B.2. Establishing Center for Continuing Education of Health Professionals
(Actual Cost: US$0.6 Million) Implementation Rating: Satisfactory
The planned outputs for this sub-component were strengthened Center for Continuing Education through
improved facilities, program, and staff development and continuing education programs for health and
allied health professionals that are responsive to their needs.
Center for Continuing Education was refurbished and equipped, and is currently operating, providing
short courses on various public health disciplines to support life-long learning needs of health personnel.
During 1996-1999 a number of 164 courses was attended by 2284 participants. The course ratings by
participants have been continuously high.
The concept of the centre was to have a flexible organization of a few administrative staff who would
bring in the best trainers available from Estonia or abroad to conduct courses. This approach has
important benefits (flexibility, efficiency, low cost) but it also poses challenges to ensure quality and
- 11 -



relevance of the courses since trainers have little opportunity or incentive to contribute to a coordinated
training program, respond to student feedback, establish a credit system to be accumulated. The Center
was evaluated by the ASPHER in conjunction with evaluation of the Department of Public Health. The
review recognized progress made and made constructive recommendations to improve internal
coherence of the courses, take steps to develop recognised credit system for the courses and global
assessment of student feedback. In 1999, the Center was renamed Training Center for Public Health and
Social Sciences. The mission of the centre was redefined as to be a key institution providing short-term
training for people working in sectors supervised by the Ministry of Social Affairs.
Sub-comDonent B.3. Building for Tartu University's Biomedical and Health Sciences
(Biomedicum). (Actual Cost: US$23.64 Million) Implementation Rating: Highly Satisfactory
This establishment replaced scattered and inadequate facilities previously used by the University for
teaching pre-clinical sciences and public health. Some facilities dated back to 1810. Construction and
equipping of the Biomedicum was completed and is operational from September 1999, providing an
infrastructure at high modern standards for medical education and research, with full ownership and
satisfaction of stakeholders. Biomedicum accommodates also the National Pharmaceutical Agency.
The new building allows for efficient use by several departments of high-end facilities available: lecture
theatres with state of the art multimedia capabilities, laboratories for students, communication and
computing facilities, eiectronic microscopy equipment, animal house, DNA laboratory. It also provides
improved waste management, capacity to deal with emergencies and appropriate security for the
equipment.
Biomedicum Maintenance Plan was finalized by the end of 1999 and was put into operation from 2000.
The Biomedicum is the first large modern building in Estonia using a comprehensive maintenance plan,
supported by customized software. Beyond the favorable impact on the quality of maintenance of the
Biomedicum the new approach to building management has raised a broader interest of those in charge
of maintaining building of large hospitals and has the potential of serving as a model for these.
Construction of Biomedicum experienced significant delays in the first years of project implementation
(1996-1997). These were due to delayed loan ratification by the Estonia Parliament because of
elections; extended architectural design period as the selected company could not conclude the contract;
heated debates among the key beneficiaries about the functional planning; and, initial delay in hiring
implementation managers. However, once these initial problems were overcome through joint efforts by
the Government and the Bank, this very complex construction project was implemented smoothly and
was completed under revised time schedule and in original budget. The quality of the product is
outstanding, it responds to the expectations of the users and the requirements of the project design in
terms of outcome. The difference between expected and actual implementation pattern rather points to
a problem of the implementation design than of the implementation process. The evaluation team
believes that initial delays that were effectively overcome do not require to reduce the rating of the
otherwise very successful implementation and outcome of the component of the project. This issue is
also discussed in the Section 8. Lessons Learned.
ComDonent C. FINANCIAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT EFFICIENCY (Actual Cost: US$1.54
million) Implementation Rating: Satisfactory
This component had originally two sub-components but in the beginning of the implementation of the
project the Client and the Bank agreed to merge the sub-components since there was significant activity
overlap and the implementing agency and sub-component co-ordinator was the same.
The main outputs of this component were to improve technical efficiency of the management processes
applied by health insurance funds through more sophisticate accounting and revenue collection methods
as well as strengthening allocative efficiency of the system through improved contracting and
reimbursement methods. This component originally had two sub-components: Local Provider-Health
Insurance Interface and Central Sickness Fund (CSF) Institutional Development.
- 12 -



Some outputs became irrelevant during the period of project implementation, e.g. a revenue collection
function was transferred from local funds to centralized Tax Collection Agency of the Government.
Overall, the Estonia sickness fund (SF) system has developed into a mature bureaucracy in terms of
administrative capacity. To improve the financial management capacity, an Oracle based Management
Information System has been introduced and is functional. TheSFs are effectively controlling the
overall expenditures through contracts that are financially capped. Over the life of the project, the
contracting has improved by incremental introductions of volume controls, first step have been taken to
introduce quality dimension in contracting as well. A mixed capitation financing system has been
introduced for Family Practitioners. Although some prospective case based financing has been
introduced for hospitals (e.g. maternity care and elective surgery), Estonia is still to reform the original
fee-for-service based hospital payment accounting system. In June 2000, the Parliament passed a Law
of Estonia Sickness Fund that effectively consolidates the 17 local funds and establishes clear
accountability mechanisms. The key challenges for the newly established agency will be to strengthen
purchasing function based on health needs of insured population rather than be a financial transaction
agency driven by provider production, develop further reform on hospital payment system through
introducing price-volume-quality prospective payment methods as well as to introduce selective
contracting through co-ordination with hospital masterplan implementation and applying long-term
funding paths.
The resources allocated under the World Bank supported project were integrated very well with the
CSF's own resources and other donor assistance (EU/PHARE). This has ensured mainstreaming the
doiuorfipanced activities into routine management and administrative practices. Inputs financed through
the project, e.g. a public relations person and a statistician, have been fully taken over by the CSF.
ComDonent D. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION (Actual Cost: US$1.90 Million) Im
plementation Rating: Highly Satisfactory
The outputs of this component were effective project steering mechanism with appropriate policy
oversight to ensure relevance of activities with the policy reform and accountability (Steering
Committee), and, effective project implementation through applying appropriate planning, financial
management, procurement and reporting procedures (Project Coordination Unit).
(i) Steering Committee. The Project was overseen by a high level Steering Committee chaired by
the Minister of MSA, and included the Secretary General of the MSA, Under-Secretary General for
Health, Project Director (high level civil servant), the Vice Rector of Tartu University, the Director of
CSF, and a Ministry of Finance representative. This committee met quarterly, or as needed, and
effectively guided policy aspects of the project, approved budgets, and reviewed project and mission
reports. The Committee was quite involved and effective in project policies and direction, and
benefited from the Ministry of Finance participation and its support to maintain funding throughout
the Project years. It is commendable that such a high level committee would consistently provide
the necessary support to see a project to completion without major bottlenecks or controversy and, in
particular, gather support to sustain counterpart funding requirements.
(ii) Proiect Coordination Unit. The PCU was established during project preparation and made directly
accountable to the Project Director, who participated in the Project from preparation through
completion. The PCU also benefited from the same continuity in leadership, staffing, and funding as
the Steering Committee throughout the entire project implementation period. The PCU and its
Director, with the support of the Bank, was highly effective in overseeing project implementation, and
proactively monitoring inputs and outputs for each project activity. Highly unusual for a project, is
the total staff retention that the PCU enjoyed for the three key positions -- planning and monitoring,
procurement, and financial responsibilities. The PCU's effectiveness also hinged on training and
support received during project start-up from expert project management consultants financed under
a grant from Canada. Consultants initially provided assistance in establishing the necessary tools
and frameworks for project management, procurement, and accounts. Also included in the Estonian
project management team were two Component Coordinators who came on board after the project
- 13-



was well underway, and were deemed, and proved to be essential to successful on-site
implementation of Components B and C -- the University of Tartu and CSF Coordinators. During the
project implementation, the CSF Coordinator became the Director of the CSF and maintained close
interest in and oversight on the project implementation so securing the main stakeholder ownership.
The local University of Tartu Coordinator also proved to be essential to the success of the
Biomedicum as much coordination was needed between the university faculties, departments,
professors, and administrators to endorse, advise, and supervise the work of architectural,
construction, equipment, furnishings, and the many services that constitute a complex technical
building. The results were a high quality building, successfully commissioned, and a showcase to
stakeholders.
PCU Financing. Noteworthy for this project were the financial and contractual arrangements which
evolved for project management staff. Initially PCU staff were financed under a PHRD grant, later to be
absorbed by the Ministry, and in 1996 becoming independent contractors of the Ministry in efforts to cap
MSA personnel. It is also admirable that a smooth transition was possible for the same individuals to
move through three different employment status. Also noteworthy is the fact that the MSA, a public
government agency was able to affect payments directly to its contractors on a timely basis and without
dispute, as well as executing payments to all other contractors financed under the loan. Contracting out
the project administration functions may have contributed to the cost overrun of project management
(longer project implementation period and significant Canadian donor assistance also contributed) but
this trade-off between quality and commitment on one side and cost on the other appeared to pay off for
the successful implementation of this particular project. Again, this is to the credit of Estonia, a small
country with a stable, cooperative and forward looking environment -- a model of best practice, but not
necessarily replicable elsewhere.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of retturn:
During project preparation, a cost-effectiveness analysis of health promotion prevention activities in the
Project was undertaken. The analysis used burden of disease methodology and it assumed that all
expected outcomes would be achieved. The analysis projected that by 2004 Estonia would save about
29,000 DALYs (Disability Adjusted Life Years) at the cost of EEK 314 (USD 23.4 at 1995 exchange rate).
Every dollar spent on prevention activities would have saved 36 in total costs. Burden of disease study
was not repeated at the conclusion. However, most of the assumed health behavior related outcome
targets were achieved and surpassed (see Annex 1).
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had several dimensions of institutional development impact. Project activities directly
supported institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Health Insurance Fund,
Departments of Family and Policlinic Medicine and Department of Public Health, Center for Continuing
Education of Health and Allied Professionals. This direct impact is discussed above. The project also
had indirect institutional development impact through the following: (i) procurement of Biomedicum had
significant impact on procedures of designing and commissioning large scale infrastructure projects.
Biomedicum is the first large new facility in Estonia to have a preventive maintenance plan that has
raised interest in private sector and among Government regulators alike; (ii) the practices applied by
Project Co-ordination Unit has influenced the way the Ministry of Social Affairs plans its own activities:
(iii) some of the features of formal communications with the Bank and reporting requirements have been
mainstreamed to Ministry of Social Affairs management practices (use of memoranda and taking
minutes of the meetings); (iv) technical level of policy dialogue has considerably raised throughout the
project.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
- 14 -



The Project was not affected by external economic factors. The Government was able to maintain its
contributions to the project even during the aftermath of the Russia crisis. Per Government request, the
in 1998 the loan was converted from USD to DEM to help the Government better manage the currency
rsks. Because of appreciation of USD against DEM, the project experienced some cost overruns of
contracts and disbursement categories that were effectively managed through careful planning and
application of contingencies. The most significant contractor for construction of a large and sophisticated
Biomedicum building performed well and the building was completed on time and within budget. This
success could partly attributed to careful preparation of the bidding documents as well as appropriate
qualification thresholds set for construction firms. The Project helped the Government to solicit better
than expected support from a number of donors to implement the Project and support the Government
health reform. From the Bank side, the project was managed by three task managers from preparation
through completion that helped to ensure continuity of supervision. It is also important to note that
overall Bank policy was coordinated by the same country director throughout the project preparation and
implementation.
5.2 Factors generally stibject to government control:
The Project enjoyed Government commitment throughout the project implementation by various
administrations regardless of political orientation. Similar to consistent macro-economic policies, the
main health reform strategies (PHC reform, health financing reform) remained coherent throughout the
project. Strong ownership of the project could partly be attributed to a large and popular investment
component that was in the core of the initial request for a loan finances project by the Estonian
government to the Bank. As a result of the above-mentioned factors, the Estonian government was
reliable in providing the necessary counterpart funding, and the annual allocations were approved were
in accordance with the Project needs. An important factor to the successful implementation of the
project was continuity of management arrangements: Steering Committee had clear responsibilities and
ex-officio membership and the project was directly managed by one Project Director throughout the
implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The MSA as the implementing agency performed remarkably well during the 5 Project years. The
organizational set up for project implementation arrangements proved to be highly effective and
sustainable. Effective Steering Committee comprising representatives of the Ministry and main project
stakeholders ensured policy direction and oversight. Project component coordinators were either civil
servants and/or heads of their respective departments or agencies which implemented Project
components and activities were within the scope of their responsibilities. Project Director, a civil servant
in the Ministry, ensured operational link between the PCU and the Ministry. Administrative functions of
project management (planning, monitoring, accounting, and procurement) were contracted out to a firm
directly accountable to the Project Director. The firm was able to offer attractive enough incentives to
the PCU staff that resulted in full continuity of staff and commitment to the Project that also added to the
success of the Project. Another important factor behind the successful functioning of this PCU was that
all the staff received adequate initial training and a strategic donor financed technical assistance was
obtained at the inception of the project to help the PCU to develop and get experience in project
monitoring, procurement and financial management procedures, including project progress report and
financial report formats. This technical assistance was highly effective in terms of knowledge transfer
that should be attributed to the quality of consultants.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Total actual Project costs (US$35.37 million) slightly (by 2.5%) exceeded appraised estimates (US$34.51
million). Although there were no significant cost variations in expenditure categories, there were some
differernces in expenditures at the component level as follows (see also Annex 2):
A. HEALTH SYSTEMS REORIENTATION
A.1 Institutional DeveloDment & Realignment of MSA(US$5.74 million) -- 34% overrun due to
additional expenditures facilitated under this component through donor financing. In addition,
funds were reallocated from subcomponent A.2 below for Tallinn PHC pilot project.
- 15-



A.2 Health Promotion & Disease Prevention (US$0.73 million) -- 62% underrun due to a
significant shift from loan financing of activities to the earmarked expenditures by Central
Sickness Fund. Since these expenditures became part of regular CSF expenditures they were
not recorded as project expenditures. This component also enjoyed significant support from
bilateral donors, in particular Finland and Denmark. This allowed a reallocation of loan savings
to subcomponent A.1 above.
B. HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
B.1 DeDartment of Public Health & Family Medicine (US$1.21 million) -- 12% overrun due to
more extensive development activities for both departments than originally envisaged.
B.2 Center for Continuing Education (US$0.6 Million) -- 34% underrun due to the availability and
use of the Center's own revenue from student fees.
B.3 Biomedium Building, Tartu University (US$23.64 million) -- 12% overrun due to some
updated technical specifications for selected equipment, increased civil works cost (due to
revisions in construction and additional parking space) and adding management information
systems for preventive maintenance.
C. MANAGEMENT OF FINANCIAL RESOURCES
C.1-2 Local Provider Health Insurance Interface and Strengthening the Central Health Insurance
Aaencv (US$1.54 million) -- 55% underrun as Central Sickness FUnd successfully implemented
this component with its own resources and significant support from donors (EU/PHARE). The two
subcomponents were implemented jointly as one activity under CSF.
D. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION
D.1 Proiect Coordination Unit (US$1.9 million) -- 113% overrun due to longer implementation
period (1 year) and a significant contribution from the Government of Canada for external project
management assistance (US$ 0.7 Million) during the initial phases of the project. Outsourcing
of project administration function by the Government may have also contributed to cost-overrun
to some extent (see lessons learned).
Regarding Project expenditures by Financier, there was a slight underrun in Government financing of
about 7%, and a doubling of donor financing from an expected US$2 Million to about US$3.9 Million.
Donor funding is included in the total Project cost quoted above, and is a significant cause of some of the
overruns. Donor financing was mainly in the form of technical assistance from Nordic countries which
designate priority to development of the health sector. Donor financing included significant project
management assistance from Canada.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The Project's sustainability in maintaining its objectives throughout the economic life of the Project is
Highly Likely (HL). This is based on: very strong government commitment; a follow-up project now
under preparation; and a positive policy environment to continue implementation of health reforms.
Most of the policy outputs developed during the project preparation (agreed as conditionalities to the
project) and during the project implementation have been mainstreamed into routine health sector
management. These include financing and management of health promotion activities, introduction of
family practice as dominant PHC provider, payment models for family practitioners, medical practice
guidelines and health facilities standards. Many of the results of the project sub-components dealing with
health policy analysis, hospital efficiency enhancement and quality assurance have been used to prepare
the Estonia Health 2015 Project, approved by the present Government and describing an ambitious
program of hospital restructuring, training of staff and changes in financing. It is anticipated that the
implementation of the Government program will be supported partly by a new Bank operation, currently
under preparation.
Through policy dialogue during project preparation, an agreement was reached with the Government that
- 16-



1% of health insurance revenue would be earmarked for health promotion and disease prevention
activities (Government exceeded the Bank recommendation of at least 0.5%). Over the life of the
project, the Government has remained committed to top-slice a proportion of health insurance revenues
for health promotion. However, the commitment in recent years has remained on the same nominal
level and in 1999 represented 0.47% from the Central Sickness Fund expenditures. Although still in the
range of the Bank original recommendation, there is some risk for long term sustainability of health
promotion funding. The evaluation team believes though that improved project evaluation practices and
existence of a broadly based health promotion constituency developed over the life of the project will
help to sustain this innovative in the World financial commitment to modern public health. Moreover, at
the time of preparing ICR, the issue is being addressed in the revisions of Estonia Health Care
Organisation and Health Insurance Law by legislating the health promotion funding commitment. At the
time of completing the ICR, the laws were still being processed through the Government and
Parliamentary review procedures.
Project supported strengthening of several institutions with key staff that generated incremental costs
that were partly covered by project funds. These institutions include Central Health Insurance Agency,
Department of Family and Policlinic Medicine and Institute of Public Health at Tartu University, Centre
for Continuing Education for Health and Allied Professionals. By conclusion of the project all incremental
costs have been absorbed by the recurrent budgets of these institutions. There will be continued
demand to prepare family practitioners and the Institute of Public Health is becoming more and more
involved in applied policy research for policy analysis and policy making purposes. The Centre for
Continuing Education derives its revenues from user charges and Government subsidy that poses some
risk for long term sustainability. This risk would be addressed if continuing education requirements will
be formalised (e.g. hospital managers, family practitioners) and the Centre's courses formally will be
accredited for credits as recommended by peer reviewers and so effectively ensuring market for the
Centre's services. Recent decision by the Government to expand the mission of the centre to all social
sectors would also expand market for its services with none or minimal opportunity cost for health sector
training.
The Biomedicum building represents today a key asset of the University of Tartu, housing all but one of
the pre-clinical departments of the medical school. Very detailed maintenance standards and procedures
are in place and dedicated staff, involved in all stages of development, are taking care of administration
of the building. All departments using the building have a strong interest in ensuring that resources will
be made available by the University in the future to maintain the very high standards of the teaching and
working environment. A maintenance budget has been secured and is expected to continue to be
appropriated.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As indicated above, most of the incremental costs generated by project activities have been absorbed by
benefiting organisations. Several policy initiatives (hospital masterplan, quality assurance strategy) are
carried on within the Government health sector development plan.
Ownership of the Biomedicum building as well as the equipment has been transferred to the University of
Tartu. The Ministry of Social Affairs and the Tartu University have agreed in the handover agreement
that the University will take full responsibility to effectively run and maintain the facility. During the first
two years after handover, the MSA will also receive regular reports on the operation of Biomedicum.
The Estonia Health Project has become a brand name for the health sector development in Estonia. It
has its own logo and a web page (httv:l/www.sm.eeleho/). Estonian Government has prepared and
approved an "Estonia Health Project 2015" that in effect is the country's medium and long term health
sector development plan. The Government has asked the World Bank to continue to support some
elements of the plan.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
- 17-



7.1 Lending:
In June 1993 when the Government of Estonia requested support for the Project, the Bank was uniquely
situated to provide comprehensive policy design and financing for implementation, helping to prevent
further decline in health status and address emerging needs in health care and financing. It was clear
that reforms and the need for change originated internally and were Estonian-driven. The Bank was very
responsive to the requests of the Client, and provided assistance in the preparation of all components by
mounting a comprehensive preparation process with experts in health management, health policy, public
health, primary health care, medical education, and architectural designs, facilities planning and costing
for the Biomedium which were critical to the integrity and sound appraisal of a large construction
component. There were concerns expressed by the Bank and the Ministry of Finance about the priority
need for construction a new educational building. However, consensus was reached on the justification
and aim which was not only to improve medical education but, more importantly, to enhance the quality
of health care and change the orientation of future health care to encompass preventive care. The
Biomedicum was recognized to be strategically important to change the medical culture and introduce a
new generation of health managers. These changes could be done through changes in medical
education; thus detailed plans and designs that were developed that lay the foundation for the work and
standards which guided the implementation and kept in check the scope and cost of the building as it
faced escalation due to demands from stakeholders. The Biomedicum was to be an integrated package
of cost-efficiency in building design, construction, equipment, IT hardware and software, and training
programs, and ultimately sustainable for Estonia.
Strong technical assistance was needed to support the transition still in its infancy from state funding to
health insurance systerns, including among others, policy and staff development, and management
information systems. The Bank's technical assistance supported the development of priorities and
strategies of Estonia in these key areas, and the Project continued to support the both the Ministry of
Social Affairs responsible for health sector management and to the Central Sickness Fund in their efforts
to make the national health system sustainable, with higher quality comprehensive services, and moving
towards international health standards as Estonia prepares itself to join the European Union.
The Bank was also instrumental during the preparation phase in bringing funding from bilateral donors as
Estonia had limited borrowing capacity and was unwilling to borrow for some of the essential technical
assistance. Several donors meetings were held and the project benefited from strong partnerships and
generous funding from various donors. This technical assistance brought also some of the needed
support to introduce new concepts, reforms, and programs.
In terms of measuring performance, the Bank had established a number of indicators and benchmarks at
the beginning of the project. However, not all these were appropriate to measure the project impact. In
particular this applies to health status indicators that are known to have a time lag between intervention
and impact as well as to have many confounding determinants. These issues are discussed in more
detail in Sections 4.1 and 4.2 in relation to specific project objectives and outputs.
7.2 Supervision:
Throughout implementation period the project was rated as satisfactory for implementation and for
achievement of its development objectives. This seems to be justified based on commitment and
validity of the project as appraised. Bank supervision was generally satisfactory throughout the project
years, with no major problems either technically or managerially Supervision was slow to get started in
the first year, but was consistent thereafter. Perhaps this is due to significant bilateral technical
assistance being provided at the time for project management, policy development, and improved health
care services. There was strong cooperation in the health sector from various bilateral donors as the
Bank worked aggressively at mobilizing resources. Donor assistance included Finland, Sweden,
Denmark, Canada, Japan, Germany, Norway, EU/PHARE, WHO, and UNDP. The Bank-Government
relationship was constructive and based on the principles of true partnership between equal parties.
There was good continuity throughout the duration of the project from preparation through completion on
both the Bank and the Client side. As a result the Bank team has been successful in using the project to
be involved in the policy discussions regarding health reform in Estonia. The best indicator for this is that
the Government has requested the Bank's assistance in a new operation involving significant policy
- 18-



content. Another consequence of the equal partnership was that the Bank did not go into
micro-management of the project. This fact also contributes to strengthening the sustainablity of the
project.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Based on the above mentioned facts, the Bank's performance is rated as Satisfactory both prior to and
during the project.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
As mentioned earlier, the Borrower approached the Bank for financing the Project as conceived and
designed by Estonia. Once there was an agreement with the Bank about the scope of project and
general policy issues, the Borrower immediately mounted a team and worked jointly with the Bank in
preparing a workplan to complete the various feasibility studies which were to form the foundation and
justification for the design and content of the activities included in the Project. The Borrower, with
support from the Bank, proceeded to secure technical assistance with donor financing and its own
resources to contract the agreed studies and concept papers. These studies incIlided health policy
development, hospital efficiency and quality, continuing education assessment, cost-effectiveness of
health promotion activities, and health insurance reforms to improve accountability, geographical equity,
and financial sustainability. The Borrower also responded to Bank recommendations to increase
allocation for health promotion activities, include environmental consideration in disposal of medical
waste, and prepared an implementation plan and budget requirements for the project with support from
the Bank.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Throughout Project implementation, both macro-economic and sector policies remained supportive of
project objectives. This support was critical to the success of significant institutional reforms which were
politically difficult, including hospital efficiency and financial accountability improvements, and shifting
curative care to family medicine and preventive health care. The Government support was clearly
manifested in providing the necessary counterpart funds on a timely basis.
The Government was also keen to receive bilateral support and form partnerships with European
countries. The Government demonstrated good will in working with various donors providing technical
assistance which complemented the Bank and Government financing and greatly increased the project
impact.
7.6 Implementing Agencv:
MSA as the implementing agency performed its managerial and administrative tasks very well as
evidenced by productive relationships with stakeholders, donors, contractors, Government officials and
the Bank. The MSA was effective in establishing and maintaining effective Project Coordination Unit
and Steering Committee that contributed greatly to a fact that there were no financial, accounting, or
procurement problems throughout the implementation period. Progress reporting was satisfactory both
in terms of data and narrative summaries of the project status, studies, deliverables, financial and
procurement data, and overall project issues and agreed changes or recommendations. Audits were also
satisfactory. Finally, it is noteworthy, and rather highly unusual for other countries, to highlight that there
was total PCU staff continuity from preparation through completion.
MSA as the implementing agency achieved an important balance between its total management
oversight responsibilities and the autonomy provided to other Project stakeholders, mainly the University
of TartO and Central Sickness Fund which were responsible for implementation of their own
components,. The MSA should be commended for this achievement which had a great bearing on
ownership as they key factor to project success and sustainability.
7.7 Overall Borrover performance:
Based on the above evaluation, the Borrower's performance is rated as Highly Satisfactory.
- 19-



8. Lessons Learned
It is evident from previous chapters that this Project was highly successful in implementation and
achieving its objectives; thus, the lessons learned reflect those positive factors which facilitated such
outcome.
Client ownership is a sine aua non for development and implementation of projects. It is well
recognized that client ownership is a fundamental factor to the success of a lending operation. Client
ownership in this Project was demonstrated from its inception where the Client invited the Bank to
finance the Project, and throughout implementation where the Client considered this Project as an
integral part of its national health development plan, maintaining management in the Ministry in parallel
with all its programs while overseeing the PCU who was responsible for monitoring implementation, and
loan administration, including procurement and financial management.
Sustained political and financial support prevents delays and helps to overcome problems in
implementing a project. A practical mechanism that proved very useful in ensuring high level political
support, removing barriers to project implementation and facilitating communication between project
implementation structures and senior decision-makers was the high level Steering Committee, including
th& Ml';nister of Social Affairs, Secretary General, Deputy Secretary General of the MSA, the Director of
Central Sickness Fund, the Vice-Rector of the University in Tartu, a Ministry of Finance representative
and the PCL director. This mechanism was a good counterbalance to unavoidable changes of some of
the top level Government officials during the life of the project, providing sufficient "institutional memory"
to keep the Project on track.
Biomedicum provided an important focal point for the project. One significant and popular
investment under a project has a potential to carry policy agenda that otherwise could have not been
feasible. As evidenced in Estonia, the Government's initial request for just a capital investment opened
a way for significant policy dialogue with the Bank and other partners and introduction of significant
policy reforms and institution building. Although the Project was critiqued as being complex and
ambitious, including the Biomedical sciences building (Biomedicum) bringing together various medical
specialties, this investment and related policy program proved to be common goals to academia, policy
makers, and the community at large. This common focal points helped to overcome the risk of complex
design.
Provision of needed inputs is not sufficient to implement programs or project activities. Creating
capacity for development of health policy in the Government proved to be a highly politicized activity.
Several attempts were made to establish the Health Policy and Analysis Unit, as this Unit was perceived
by some players a potential threat to traditional "political" policy development (see Section 4.2).
Therefore, absence of policy is sometimes preferred to policy developed by experts. One solution might
be more attention given to consultation and participation, and project design should not only focus on
development of technically sound proposals and solutions, but also on the ways of "selling" them to the
various interest groups. More recently, the need for stakeholder participation and consultation has been
recognised by the Bank and has rightly become a mandatory part of project preparation process.
Bank has significant value added in providing impartial technical know-how to help to implement
Client-driven activities. The Bank proved to be a valuable partner to the client by providing knowledge
of world class standard as well as ensuring that sound technical checks and price controls are in place.
While the client may be capable of implementing a project, working in partnership with international
experts who bring knowledge and an impartial assessment of a project, provides a system for checks and
balances that prevent political, local, or personal biases from occurring, and thus achieve the optimum
technical and economical solution to benefit the community at large. This was in particular evident in
implementing the Biomedicum subcomponent. Construction of the Biomedicum was an ambitious
undertaking for a small country with limited resources, and the Bank was able to provide not only the
financing but also contributed technical experts to assist the Government in the design elements and
financial discipline that guarantee a sustainable and cost-effective solution.
- 20 -



Under particular circumstances projects such as the Biomedicum have a potential to long term
developmental impact on delivery of social services. In a small country like Estonia (or a region in
another country) where there is a single institution preparing higher level health professionals (like Tartu
University in Estonia), significant benefits will continue to accrue to the society from the Biomedicum
building. The future generations of health professionals will benefit from the opportunities the
Biomedicum offers and from the international credibility it brings. Through their work in medicine, public
health, applied health research, etc., these benefits will be passed to the whole society. The obvious
benefits of the "hardware" (mainly teaching and research facilities), spread to a large number of
departments and members of the academic community who benefited from the significant renewal
processes which resulted in "software" improvement initiatives such as the systematic review and
upgrading of the curriculum and the expansion of disciplines with increasing relevance for policy reforms
and service delivery context such as public health and family medicine.
Design of a complex building, meeting the requirements of numerous sophisticated users proved
to be a very demanding process taking longer time than actual construction. Bank and
Government expectations of quick disbursements should be more realistic in understanding the lag time
between development of design and specifications, review and consensus for specifications, the bidding
process and, consequently, disbursements. Disbursements, in particular for construction, should be
projected to lag far behind the planning and tendering process to peak around project completion time.
Monitoring indicators are important to maintain focus on development objectives. Attention given
early during supervision missions to systematically assess progress in achievement of defined project
performance indicators enhances project performance and helps to steadily steer the project towards its
goals, or amend them as needed. It should be noted here, though, that the relevance and
appropriateness of monitoring indicators is crucial for maintaining credibility of supervision process.
Project start-up needs intensive and immediate attention through Bank Supervision. Projects
often do not receive start-up support immediately after loan approval, not recognizing that this is the
most critical point for the client and stakeholders as they transition from planning design and theory to
results on the ground. In this project, significant project management technical assistance provided
some support to import the needed management and administration knowledge and skills for project
implementation.
Contracted project management services can be effective as a government-financed activity. This
Project demonstrated a successful example of Government-financed outsourcing of project
administration. This arrangement enabled the Government to keep the core functions of the Ministry of
Social Affairs separate from the more temporary project administration tasks; maintain financial support
through transparent contracting mechanism; and, at the same time ensuring the Government oversight
and policy direction of the Project through effective Steering Committee and a high level civil servant as
a Project Director. Appropriate incentives to performance oriented PCU helped to maintain full
continuity of trained staff that was an important success factor for the project implementation. Projects
that would like to entertain options of out-sourcing project administration should put place arrangements
for proper and working accountability and oversight (i.e. effective steering committee and accountable
project director) and also ensure effective counterparts in implementing agencies (see below).
Outsourcing project management functions could lead to increased cost of project implementation as
evidenced by 113% overrun in this project (however, this overrun includes the Canadian donor
assistance - 37% of PCU costs - as well as longer than planned implementation period) and this obvious
trade-off between cost and quality needs to be considered and appropriately weighed.
Role of local stakeholder coordinator in project management and oversight is essential. The
project initially did not have a coordinator for each activity at the stakeholder level. The need for local
project management at each site is often overlooked in projects as it is seen as a superfluous project
management expenditure. Early in the project, it became evident that these positions were needed and
they proved to be pivotal to the successful transfer of knowledge regarding project objectives to local
- 21 -



stakeholders and promoting a participatory process that resulted in complete ownership by the
beneficiaries of the project.
Initial Project management training essential for smooth start-up. Intensive donor technical
assistance was provided by expert international project management consultants, including planning,
monitoring, accounting, and procurement are essential to project success. Investment in project
management training and technical assistance always proves to be a worthwhile expenditure resulting in
smooth project implementing and startup with the appropriate organizational skills and structures to
address planning, monitoring, procurement, and financial management. Furthermore, the management
skills acquired by staff and contractors will be utilized in the implementation of future programs and
projects.
ARRANGEMENTS FOR FUTURE PROJECT OPERATIONS.
A second Health Project is now in its early preparation stage. It is expected that the same model for
project management and implementation will be followed as it has been successful in all aspects. The
second project will benefit from the knowledge and skills acquired by staff of the MSA as well as staff
from other entities involved in project implementation.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrover/implementing agency:
Comments from the Ministry of Finance (Borrower). Vei batim from a leHter dated November 17,
2000 (ref. 40-10472). Available in project files.
Re: Draft World Bank Imolementation ComDletion ReDort of the Estonia Health Proiect
Dear Ladies and Gentlemen,
I have a pleasure to comment the above mentioned Draft Report.
We find that the Draft Report is complete and comprehensive. The Project objectives have been mainly
achieved. All the actions and steps, taken in the process of the Project implementation, have been very
helpful and necessary for re-structuring and reforming of Estonian Health Sector.
The Ministry of Finance considers the Estonian Health Project as very successful and hopes for
continuing and fruifful cooperation between IBRD and Estonian Government.
Yours truly,
Siim Kallas
Minister of Finance
Comments from the Ministry of Social Affairs (Implementing Agency). Verbatim from a letter dated
November 11, 2000 (ref. 1-7/7335). Available in project files.
The Ministry of Social Affairs as the implementing of Estonia Health Project has reviewed the
lmplemj,entation Completion Report (ICR) prepared by The World Bank and agrees in general with its
contents. MoSA also estimates the project implementation to be successful and considers that the
established developmental objectives have been achieved. MoSA agrees with the Bank's rating given to
the project's components and shares the opinion that the project's biggest successes are related to
human resources development component.
The project concept originated from the Borrower and for this reason the project has enjoyed strong
- 22 -



ownership throughout the whole project cycle, for example there has always been sufficient counterpart
funding. Although the Bank took the initiative in project preparation, the Borrower's involvement during
the project preparation period was secured by collaborating with Estonian working groups designated by
MoSA, so the project design and contents were elaborated jointly, proceeding from the Government's
health strategy and the Bank's overall sector priorities. In general, the project has had positive image
and is perceived as Estonia's "own' project, although the Bank's participation has added credibility and
status to the project.
The project design was directly related to the achievement of the objectives. This is confirmed by the
fact that the original project components have remained unchanged. More detailed planning of the
project activities benefited from flexibility and mutual dialogue that developed between the Borrower and
the Bank, so that the allocation of resources has been based on the needs. The implementation
schedule has been reviewed to certain extent during WB missions in order to adjust the project activities
to changing circumstances.
The collaboration with the Bank as well as with donor countries has been positive. External TA - either
carried out by the WB experts assigned to Estonia Health Project as well as TA procured under the
project - has been of excellent quality. In many occasions, the Bank has assisted in finding the best
expertise. The contribution by donor countries has been bigger than anticipated and the donor-financed
activities have been well integrated with other project activities financed from the WB loan and the
Government counterpart funding.
Structural changes that the project has supported have resulted in major developments in Estonian
health system. The project has had a strong impact on institutional development of MoSa, the ministry's
role in policy making, economic and cost analysis and standard-setting has improved considerably in the
past five years. More integrated primary health care system has been established, much attention is
paid to the promotion of healthy lifestyles. The project has succeeded in supporting the training of
physicians and other health personnel by strengthening the Departments of Public Health and the
Department of Polyclinic and Family Medicine at Tartu University and the Training Centre of Public
Health in Tallinn. Tartu University's Biomedicum building is a major contribution to the reorientation and
modernization of medical and other health training. Estonia's health insurance system has been
strengthened, its management and accounting capacity has improved considerably. Steps have been
taken to ensure the continuity and sustainability of project-initiated developments and investments.
The project's management structure has proved to be appropriate for implementing this rather complex
project. A useful tool for ensuring the needed stability and consistency is the project's Coordination
Committee, chaired by the Minister of Social Affairs. This arrangement facilitates the overall
coordination between different agencies and ensures the continuous involvement of important
stakeholders. MoSA contracted day-to-day project management services, so that the project PCU was
institutionally placed outside the MoSA, and the needed administrative link between the MoSA and PCU
was established through the Project Director, a civil servant at the MoSA. Without doubt, the continuity
of staff has facilitated the project implementation.
Today, it can be said that the activities carried out in the framework of Estonia Health Project have
established a sound basis for further development. An evidence of this is the approval of the Estonian
health sector long-term development plan "Estonia Health Project 2015" by the Estonian Government.
The planned activities include the completion of primary health care reform, restructuring hospital
network, development of human resources in order to meet the needs of the optimised health services
network and effective use of financial resources. Follow-up health loan is currently under preparation to
partly syipport the planned activities.
Yours sincerely,
Eiki Nestor
Minister
- 23 -



(b) Cofinanciers:
The draft report was sent to the Embassies of Sweden, Finland, Canada, Denmark and the Netherlands
for comment. No comments were received.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 24 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
ESTONIA HEALTH PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (LN.3835-EE)
Key Performance Indicators
OBJECTIVES                             TARGET INDICATORS                          ACTUAL OUTCOME
Development Objecffves.-
Improved healthier life styles of the population    - Prevalence of smoking, per year (target  Prevalence of smoking in 1998 was for men
as a result of increased health awareness from    M45%, F19%)                         42%, for women 19%
health promotion and disease prevention
programs                                   - Passive smoking (target M50%, F20%)      Passive smoking in 1998 for men 37%, for
women 14%
- Age standardized ishaemic heart disease death  Age standardized ishaemic heart disease
rate, 0-64 years (target 80 per 100,000    death rate 94,3 per 100 000 in 1998.
population)
Daily salt intake 14,1 g in 1999
-Daily salt intake (target 13-15g)
Daily fat intake 39,6% of energy in 1999
-Daily fat intake (target 35-39% of energy)
Mortality rate due to injuries and poisonings
- Mortality due to injuries and poisonings (incl.  in 1999 M 260, F 66 per 100,000
suicides) (odginal target M105, F31 per 100,000;
revised target M225, F60 - see text)
Number of induced abortions 14, 503,
- Number and % of induced abortion (target 125  115.6 per 100 live birth (1999)
per 100 live births)
Contraceptive rate 31.9 % of fertile female
- Contraceptive rate (target 35% of fertile female  population in 1999
populaton)
Immunization coverage in different diseases
- Basic childhood immunization coverage    between 92.1% (rubella) to 99.7%
(target 80-90%)                            (tuberculosis)(1999)
Breasffeeding up to 3 month 59%, up to 6
- Breast feeding up to 4 months (target 50%)    months 34% (up to 4 month data is not
available) in 1998
Enhanced Quality and Efficiency of Health  - Medical equipment well maintained (under 10%  Medical devices market surveillance
Services                                   failures)                                  structure, in compliance with good
international practice, established at the
State medicines Agency.
from 2000;
- Physician licensing system operational, 50% of
physicians licenced by 1997                complied with
- Hospital licensing (accrediting) system
operational (50% of hospitals licensed by 1997)  Establishment of a National Health Agency
for Licensing and Quality Assurance was
approved for operation from January 2001
- 25 -



Developed Health Human Resources resulting    - Proportion of population served by newly  Appr. 2/3 of the total population
from strengthened formal and continuing  trained GPs (Number of patients receiving  ( 927, 000 persons) is served by licenced
education programs for medical professionals in  services from licensed family doctors)  family doctors
modern public health, integrated pre-clinical
training, family medicine, health care   - Improved performance feedback through peer The teaching programs and staff competence
management.                              reviews of the Dept. of Family Medicine and  of the Dept. of Family Medicine and Institute
Institute of Public Health by 1997        of Public Health were evaluated through
peer-reviews in 1999 and considered
adequate
- 80% student course satisfaction by
end-of-project in the Centre for Continuing  the average score on 1-5 score scale was 4.2
Education                                in 1996, 4.5 in 1997, 4.7 in 1998 and 1999
Strengthened Health Financing System through   - First annual consolidated health budget  - health insurance budget is part of
sound cost, performance analysis and health    approved by Dec. 1995                consolidated state budget since 1998
management information systems
- Increased compliance with health insurance tax - not applicable, responsibility was
transferred to State Tax Authority
- Decrease in patients with invalid health  - complied with
enrollment documents to 10% by 1998
- Increase the use of accounting systems in local - complied
funds by trained staff to 95% by 1997
- Increase in registration of firms and   - complied
self-employed with Sickness funds to 98% by
1997
P1roject Ou4oputs
A.. Health Systems Reorientation:
- 26 -



1. Institutional Development and Realignment of - Health Policy and Economic Analysis Unit    The Strategic Planning Unit (2 specialists)
Ministry of Social Affairs                staff recruited by June 30, 1995           was established in March 1999 at the
Ministry of Social Affairs
1.1 Health Policy and Economic Analysis and    - Number of counties with data base on risk    15 counties (100%)
health management information system.     factors affecting the health of the populaton by
1998)99 (target 50% of counties)
1.2 Hospital Efficiency Enhancement, incl.  - Number of health facility standards published, 1 1 in 1996 - 1999
(i) facility planning and re-design;      annually
(ii) hospital management development;
(iii) medical equipment support.          - Medical Equipment Quality and Safety     The survey on radiological devices was
Assessments Survey                        finalized by the end of 2000.
- Design of a national master plan for health    Estonian Hospital Masterplan was finalized
care facilities by 1998/99                by April, 2000
- Hospital Administration and Functional  Appr. 100 hospital managers were trained in
Facilities Planning Training for 30 participants    hospital administration in the framework of
Swedish and Danish donor programs;12
specialists completed training in functional
planning of health facilities
1.3 Qualitv Assurance, and accreditation of  - Design a strategy on quality assurance in  The document 'Quality Policy of Estonian
health facIlities, and licensing health   health care by 1997/98                     Health Care' was finalized by the end of 1997
professionals.                                                                      in the framework of Dutch donor program
- Licensing of health professionals according to  Complied with
intemational standards (50% by December
1997)
Complied with
- Hospital accreditation (50% by July 1997)
Complied with
1.4 Primary Health Care and health protection    - Nutrition guidelines approved by December
service reorientation.                    1995
2. Health PromotUon and Disease Prevention
Complied with during the firs years of project,
2.1 Annual funding of health promotion programs                                      later maintained nominally, somewhat less in
in support of local initiatives           - 0.5 % of health insurance revenues for health  real terms
promotion
Complied with
2.2 National Campaigns in five priority areas:
anti-smoking, cardio-vascular and heart disease; - Two Anti-smokinglFamily planning centres
injury control, women's health and family  opened in Tallinn and Tartu
planning.
B. Human Resources Development
- 27 -



Strengthened Department of Public Health,      - Increase staff by 13, induding lecurers, by  14 staff, fully integrated within the department
University of Tartu, through improved quality  end-of-project
programs in public health, health economics,
and hospital management and administration:    - Improved quality of public health education  The teaching hours of disciplines of public
through improved programs, fadlities,          health increased from 4% to 6.5% in the new
equipment, and staff development               curriculum of medical students. The
department moved to new facilities of
Biomedicum in 1999
and gained state of the art equipment for
research and teaching purposes.
- Improved performance feedback through peer
review of the Dept of Family Medicine by 1997   In 1999 peer review was carried out by
ASPHER; the report gives positive estimation
on Department's development
Strengthened Department of Family Medicine     - Improved qualifications of teaching staff and  All members of teaching staff participated on
programs through training                      intemational training courses of teachers of
general practice/family medicine. New
programs (undergraduate, recidency,
specialization etc) have been developed in
FM.
- Improved status of Family Practitioners
through newly established association,         As of today, Family Practitioners have
networking, and website supported by the       acquired a strong identity among other
University Department                          medical specialities, having a strong
professional society and extensive
collaborating network within Estonia as well
as many intemational contacts
- Improved performance feedback through peer
review of the Dept. of Family Medicine by 1997   In April, 1999 peer review was caried out by
intemational experts; the report gives positive
estimation on Department's development
- Number of family doctors trained, per year
57 family doctors graduated in 1999. As of
August 2000, the number of family doctors
trained is 515, new 100 doctors have started
courses and 16 residents started residency
training.
Strengthened Continuing Educaton Training programs  - Strengthened Center for Continuing Education  The training center was refurbished and equipped,
for health professionals                      through improved faclities, program, and staff  and is successfully operating, providing courses on
development                                    various public health disciplines to support Iffe-long
leaming needs of health personnel
- 164 courses and 2284 participants in 1996-1999
- Number of short & medium term courses provided by
the Center, number of participants, per year
Construction and Operaton of *Biomedicum       - Biomedium constructed, equipped, and operatng with  Constuction and equipping of the Biomedicum was
(biomedical and health sciences complex) at University  high standards by end-of-project      completed and is operational from September 1999
of Tartu                                                                                      under high modem standards for medical education
and research, with full ownership and satisfacton
of stakeholders, Biomedicum accommodates
Nabonal
- Strengthened Nabonal Pharmaceutcal Agency    Pharmaceutical Agency.
- Strengthened Tartu Public Health Laboratories  Tartu Public Health Laboratories moved into newly
refurbished building in 1996, and therefore are not
located at Biomedicum today.
- Biomedicum Maintenance Plan developed and    Biomedicum Maintenance Plan was finalized by the
adopted                                        end of 1999 and was put into operation from 2000
C. Efficient Management of Financial Resources
- 28 -



Improved management capacily of the Central     - Development and Adopbon of National Health           first NHA completed for 1998, NHA for
Sickness Fund and local insurance funds in contracting  Accounts                                 1999 is under preparation
health care services from providers
- 90% of local health insurance fund staff trained  -  complied
-MIS accounting systems functional in iocal funds  -   complied 100 %
(target 95% by 1997)
- Relevant staff from health institutions trained in  -   achieved 100%
financial transactons with the health insurance funds
(target 95% of eligible)
- 29 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Pro ect Cost b Com onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
A. Health Systems Reorientation
1. Institutional Development & Realignment of MSA    4.29            5.74           134
2. Health Promotion & Disease Prevention              1.90           0.73            38
B. Human Resources Development
1. Dept. of Public Health & Family Medicine          1.08            1.21           112
2. Center for Continuing Health Education            0.91            0.60            66
3. Biomedictum Building, Tartu University           21.08           23.64           112
C. Management of Financial Resources
1. Local Provider Health Insurance Interface         3.37            0.00             0
2. Central Health Insurance Agency                    1.01           1.54           152
D. Project Coordination Unit                          0.87            1.90           218
Total Baseline Cost                                  34.51           35.36
Total Project Costs             34.51           35.36
Total Financing Required              34.51           35.36
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1 . Works                    14.45                                    0.11         14.56
(7.08)         0             0          (0.00)        (7.08)
2. Goods                      3.30                       6.40          0.58         10.28
(3.30)         0           (5.50)       (0.00)        (8.80)
3. Services                                              1.15          2.06         3.21
()           ()          (1.15)        (0.00)       (1.15)
4. Fellowships/Training                                  0.44          2.26         2.70
0            (           (0.44)        (0.00)       (0.44)
5. Health Promotion                                      1.36                       1.36
o)           ()          (0.53)         (           (0.53)
6. Incremental Costs                                                   2.40         2.40
O            0             0           (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      17.75         0.00          9.35         7.41         34.51
_   (10.38)       (0.00)       (7.62)        (0.00)       (18.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
30oceL4 -mi  . t- |
- 30 -



1. Works                       15346.00                       1137.00         617.00       17100.00
(9883.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)       (9883.00)
2. Goods                        5526.00          0.00         2078.00        1444.00        9048.00
(5176.00)        (0.00)       (1883.00)        (0.00)       (7059.00)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00          398.00        6397.00        6795.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (398.00)        (0.00)        (398.00)
4. Fellowships/Training          0.00            0.00          609.00         777.00        1386.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (609.00)        (0.00)        (609.00)
5. Health Promotion              0.00            0.00           50.00         136.00         186.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (50.00)        (0.00)        (50.00)
6. Incremental Costs             0.00            0.00          857.00          0.00          857.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.00)         (0.00)         (1.00)
Total                       20872.00          0.00         5129.00        9371.00        35372.00
(15059.00)       (0.00)        (2941.00)        (0.00)      (18000.00)
I! Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
I Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equiv len.t_)
I______________           :~mk      C    S    __   _   __ _    _    _ _   _    C L Ws *       '? COP.
A. Health System                                                                        0.0    0.0    0.0
Reorientation
1. MSA Institutional Dev.    1.97   1.63      0.69       1.37       1.79      2.58     69.5   109.8  373.9
& Realignment
2. Health Promotion &    0.71       1.09      0.10       0.14       0.38      0.22     19.7   34.9  220.0
Disease Prevention
B. Human Resources                                                                      0.0    0.0    0.0
Development
1. Dept of Public Health  0.50      0.44      0.14       0.27      0.95       0.00     54.0  215.9   0.0
& Family Medicine
2. Center for Continuing  0.25      0.56      0.11       0.07       0.53      0.00     28.0   94.6    0.0
Health Education
3. Biomedicum Building,    12.84    8.23      0.00       15.28      8.36      0.00    119.0  101.6   0.0
Tartu University
C. Management of                                                                        0.0    0.0    0.0
Financial Resources
1. Local Provider Health  1.21      1.80      0.36       0.00      0.00       0.00     0.0    0.0    0.0
Insurance Interface
2. Central Health        0.28       0.46      0.27       0.87       0.31      0.36    310.7  67.4   133.3
Insurance Agency
D. Project Coordination   0.24       0.30      0.33       0.02       1.17      0.71     8.3   390.0  215.2
Unit
TOTAL:    18.00        14.50      2.00      18.03      13.48      3.87    100.2  93.0   193.5
- 31 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Cost-effectiveness analysis for health promotion programs was conducted for the appraisal of the
project. The analysis suggested that implementation of disease prevention programs could save Estonia
over 29,000 disability adjusted life years (DALY) by 2004. The study analyzed potential
cost-effectiveness of four preventive programs included in the project, against seven selected problems:
(a) abortion and abortion complications; (b) smoking; (c) chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; (d) lung
cancer; (e) upper digestive cancer; (f) cardiovascular conditions, including myocardial infarction, instable
and stable angina pectoris; and, (g) traffic accidents. The study estimated that a total amount of EEK328
million (around US$25 million at 1995 exchange rates) could be saved by 2004. The analysis was not
repeated at the time of ICR. But most target indicators that were used as assumptions were achieved or
surpassed.
- 32 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Projet Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty             PerfomanCC Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation     Developnment
MonthYear    Count        Specialty                       Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
Identification Mission:       7   ACampos (TL & Health
August 1993                       Management Specialist);
PHuitima (Hospital Planning);
LCemerud (Medical Training);
ABento (Facilities Planning-
Biomedical Engineer);
KKoskela (PHC); JGodinho
(Public Health); KDi Tullio
(Operations)
Preparation Mission:          9   ACampos (TL & Health
November 1993                     Management Specialist);
ABento (Facilities Planning-
Biomedical Engineer);
LFemandez (Hospital Architect)
KKoskela, RMadeley, JLepisk
(PHC & Public Health); KDi
Tullio (Operations); NGrande
(Pre-clinical Training);
HBarnum, FKanach (Hospital
Planning & Management)
Pre-Appraisal Mission:       12   ACampos (TL & Health
February 1994                     Management Specialist);
ABento (Facilities Planning-
Biomedical Engineer);
JHogstedt (Programming
Architecture); DRoutenberg
(Data Systems Planning & Civil
Works); KKoskela, RMadeley
(PHC & Public Health); KDi
Tullio (Operations); NGrande
(Pre-clinical Training);
HBarnum (Health FInancing),
FKanach (Hospital Efficiency &
Quality); SSjolund (Hospital
Planning)
Final Preparation             8   ACampost (TL & Health
Mission: April 1994               Management Specialist);
NMaraviglia (Operations);
ABento (Facilities Planning &
Biomedical Engineering);
JFHogstedt (Facilities
Programming); JWemans
(Mechanical Engineering);
HNobakht (Costing);
JSteensberg (Health
Restructuring)
- 33 -



AppraisatlNegotiation
Appraisal: June 1994            8      ACampost (TL & Health
Management Specialist);
NMaraviglia (Operations);
RSaltman (Health Policy
Reform); KKoskela (Health
Trends and Health
Promotion); RMadeley
(Human Resources
Development;
ODeMessieres (Architect);
TEnsor (Health Financing);
DRoutenberg
(Implementation)
Project Launch                  I    DRoutenberg (Implementation
Preparation: December                Specialist)
1994
Project Launch: June            6    A.Campost (TL & Health
1995                                 SPecialist); ICheng (Operations
Officer & Financial Analyst);
LRose (Health Economist);
TPalu (Health Specialist);
ODeMessieres (Architect);
TLim (Operations)
Technical Assistance:           2    SCucic (Accreditation & Quality
Sept/Nov 1995                        Assurance); CNeal (IT
Specialist)
Supervision
March/April, 1996                5   ICheng (TL & Financial                  S                   S
Analyst); ACampost (Health
Management); TPalu (Health
Reform); MSuzuki
(Logistics); ODeMessieres
(Architect)
MIDTERM REVIEW:                  4   IChen (TL & Fin.Analyst);               S                   S
February 20, 1997                    ACampos (Health Management);
ODeMessieres (Architect);
LBogg (Health Financing)
January 9, 1998                  3   IChen (TL & Fin.Analyst);               S                   S
ODeMessieres (Architect);
ACampos (Health Management)
June 12, 1998                    3   TPalu ((TL & Health Specialist);        S                   S
LBogg (Health Financing);
ACampos (Health Management)
May 8, 1999                      3   TPalu (TL & Health Specialist);         S                   S
JGodinho (Health Promotion);
TNovotny (Public Health)
l3ecember 24, 1999               4   TPalu (TL &Health Specialist);          S                   S
LHawkins (Health Economist);
SKokko (PHC); ODeMessieres
(Architect)
-34 -



June 15, 2000                 3  TPalu (TL & Health Specialist);      HS                HS
A.Fidler (Health Sector
Manager); PKleysteuber
(Operations Officer)
ICR
June 22, 2000                 6   TPalu (TL & Health                  HS                HS
Specialist); A.Fidler (Health
Sector Manager);
PKleysteuber (Operations
Officer); IHollo
(Economsit) SKokko (PHC);
SRadulescu (Public Health)
November 30, 2000             1   T. Palu (TL&Health Specialist)      HS                HS
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
_________ _.___  No. Staff weeks          US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                93                     294,864
Appraisal/Negotiation                     49                      i25,726
Supervision                               82                     367,241
ICR                                       10                      25,000
Total                                    232                     812,831
- 35 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
DMacro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
FSector Policies                          O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
M Physical                                * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
N Financial                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
[Z Institutional Development              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
L Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
LI Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Gender                          O H OSUOM O N * NA
LI Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
L Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management                0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
n Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 36 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
K Lending                                           OHS*S OU OHU
F Supervision                                       OHS OS   OU   OHU
ER Overall                                          OHS OS  O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
 Preparation                                       OHS Os   O  u  O HU
 Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                 OHS Os  0 U   O HU
F Overall                                           OHS OS  0 U   O HU
- 37 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Prevention in the Estonia Health Project. Consultant Report. March 1995
Estonia Health Project. Staff Appraisal Repott. No. 13297-EE. January 19, 1995
Evaluation of Selected Health Promotion Projects. Consultant Report. 1999
Health Care Systems in Transition. Estonia. European Observatory on Health Care Systems. 2000
Health Synergies of a Building Investmnent: The Case for the Tartu Biomedicum. A. Campos, prof. of
health economics, New University of Lisbom; President, National Institute for Public Administration,
Portugal; Former Task Manager of Estonia Health Project. Presentation on the occasion of inauguration of
Biomedicum, September 1, 1999.
Letter from the Ministry of Finance with comments on the draft ICR. November 17, 2000 (ref. 40-10472).
Letter from the Ministry of Social Affairs with comments on the draft ICR. November 11, 2000 (ref.
1-7/7335).
Peer Evaluation of the Department of Family and Policlinic Medicine at the University of Tartu. Peer
Review Report. 1999
Training Centre of Public Health in Tallinn and Department of Public Health at the University of Tartu.
Peer Review Report. June 1999
- 38 -



