Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13297-EE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ESTONIA
HEALTH PROJECT
JANUARY 19, 1995
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               EEK  (Estonian Cro-')
EEK   8       =             DEM  I (fixed rate since June 1992)
EEK   13.4                  USD I (at recent DEM/US cross rates)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ALOS                 Average length of stay (in hospitals)
CHIA                 Central Health Insurance Agency
CPAR                 Country Procurement Assessment Report
DALY                 Disability Adjusted Life Year
DPT                  Diphtheria, Tetanus, Pertussis
DSL                  Department of Standards and Licensing
DRG                  Diagnostic Related Group
EU-PHARE             European Union - Pologne Hongrie Action pour la Reconversion
Economique
ECU                  European Currency Unit
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
GP                   General Practitioner
HPS                  Health Protection Services (San-Epid)
HMIS                 Health Management Information System
ICB                  International Competitive Bidding
IPPF                 International Planned Parenthood Federation
JEXIM                Japan Export/Import Bank
LCB                  Local Competitive Bidding
MIS                  Management Information System
MSA                  Ministry of Social Affairs
NIS                  Newly Independent States
PCU                  Project Coordination Unit
PHC                  Primary Health Care
PHRD                 Policy and Human Resources Development Fund (formerly Japanese
Grant Facility)
QA                   Quality assurance
OECD                 Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
San-Epid             Predecessor of Health Protection Service
SOE                  Statement of Expenditure
TOR                  Terms of Reference
USAID                US Agency for International Development
WHO/EURO             World Health Organization/Europe



CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......................................   i
BASIC DATA SHEET  ...............................................   v
I. BACKGROUND  AND ISSUES  ......                    ...................1.............. 
A. Background  .......         ...............1......................... 
B. Key Sector Issues ........................                                                    2
(a) Issues Affecting the Users  .................................  3
(b) Issues Relating to Health System  .............................   4
(c) Health Financing Issues ...................................  7
C. Government Strategy ...... ................                                                   8
D. Role of Other Donors .......................                                                 9
E. Lessons Learned and Rationale for Bank Involvement .... ........ .                            9
'l. THE PROJECT  .......                 ...........................                                    11
A.  Project Objectives  .........................................   11
B.  Main Project Features  .......................................   11
C.  Description of Components ....................................   12
1II. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS ...... 22
A.  Project Costs .............................................   22
B.  Incremental Recurrent Costs and Sustainability ........................  23
C.  Financing Plan ............................................   25
D.  Procurement .............................................   25
E. Disbursements .28
F.  Accounting and Auditing  .....................................   29
This report is based on the findings of four preparation missions and an appraisal mission which visited
Estonia in the last nine months. Mr. Antonio Campos (Task Manager and mission leader) was assisted
by several teams including consultants and Bank staff with expertise in health financing, public health,
medical training, hospital efficiency and design and health service administration, including: Howard
Barnum (PHNDR), Kathleen Di Tullio, (EXTPI); Toomas Palu and Antonio Lim (EC4HR). Consultants:
Joana Godinho, Kaj Koskela, Lars Cernerud, Pieter Huitima, Adelino Bento, Richard Madeley, Nuno
Grande, Frances Kanach, Jan-Fredrik Hogstedt, Juri Lepisk, Timothy Ensor, Richard Saltman, Olivier
de Messieres, David Routenberg, Sture Sjolund, Jens Steensberg, and Joao Wemans. Nydia Maraviglia
advised on operations and project procedures. Department Director: Basil Kavalsky, Division Chief:
James Q. Harrison; Peer Reviewers: Alexander S. Preker (EC1/2HR), Robert Castadot (EC1/2HR), and
Peter Heywood (PHNDR).



IV. IMPLEMENTATION, MANAGEMENT, EVALUATION AND SUPERVISION  .....  30
A.  Status of Project Preparation ...................................   30
B.  Project Management and Implementation  ...........................  31
C.  Project Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation  ........................   31
D.  Bank Supervision Strategy  ....................................  32
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS .34
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ...................  36
ANNEXES
Annex  1:     Health Conditions, lHealth Care Systems and Reform
Annex 2:       Estonia's National Health Strategy
Annex 3:      Accreditation, Licensure and Quality Assurance
Annex 4:      University of Tartu's Biomedical Sciences Building
Annex 5:      The Health Financing System
Annex 6:      Project Implementation Plan
Annex 7:      Planned Procurement Package and Schedule
Annex 8:      Indicators for Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Annex 9:      Selected Project Cost Summary Tables
Annex 10:     Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 11:     Supervision Plan
Annex 12:    Selected Documents in Project Files
TABLES IN TEXT
3.1: Project Cost Summary by Components  ............         ..       ..................  22
3.2: Project Cost Summary by Category of Expenditures .........      ..      .............  24
3.3: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements .........................   27
4. 1: Target Indicators for Health Promotion Programs in Estonia, 1992 - 1998 ..........     32
MAP: IBRD No. 26104



-i-
ESTONIA
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Estonia
Implementing
Agency:        Ministry of Social Affairs (MSA)
Beneficiaries:       Ministry of Social Affairs, University of Tartu, central and local health insurance
funds, county health officers, population at large
Poverty:             Not directly applicable. By improving the quality and availability of public
health programs and primary health care, however, it is expected that the project
will bring substantial benefits to low-income groups.
Amount:              US$ 18 million equivalent
Terms:               Fifteen years, including a five-year grace period, at the Bank standard variable
interest rate
Commitment:          0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less any
waiver
Project Objectives:   The proposed project would support the health reform efforts initiated by the
Government and would aim to improve the health of Estonia's people by: (a)
emphasizing health promotion and disease prevention programs to increase
awareness of healthy life styles, and enhancing the efficiency and quality of
health services; (b) developing human resources for health by strengthening
modern public health training, integrated pre-clinical medical training, and
continuing education for public health doctors, family doctors, health insurance
and hospital administrators, nurses and other health personnel; and (c) supporting
the on-going health financing reform to ensure its sustainability, cost-
effectiveness and equity through establishing sound cost, performance analysis
and health management information systems.
Project Description:  The proposed project would provide technical assistance, fellowships, training,
laboratory and teaching equipment, computer hardware and software, civil works
and refurbishment of facilities, furniture and fixed equipment, and incremental
recurrent costs for activities centered in the reform process. The project, which
would be implemented over a four-year period by the MSA, the University of
Tartu, and the Central Health Insurance Agency (CHIA), would consist of the
following components:



-.i-
A. Health System Reorientation (US$6.2 million total cost). This component
would support MSA's new national health strategy that includes: (a) institutional
development and realignment in MSA; and (b) health promotion and disease
prevention. The sub-component for Institutional Development and Realignment
in MSA would strengthen the institutional capacity of the Ministry in four areas
to facilitate health reform and improve efficiency. These include: (i) formulating
health policy, performing economic analysis, and creating a health management
information system; (ii) enhancing hospital efficiency; (iii) establishing quality
assurance, accreditation of health facilities and licensing of professionals; and (iv)
reorienting the health system towards integrated primary health care and health
protection services. The sub-component for Health Promotion and Disease
Prevention would finance national and local health promotion campaigns to
reduce tobacco and alcohol consumption, provide information and services on
women's reproductive health, update nutrition practices, introduce stricter road
safety and environmental protection measures, and promote safety in the work
place.
B. Development of Human Resources for Health (US$23.1 million total
cost). This component, to be implemented by the University of Tartu, would
carry out programs for training and re-training health professionals and
personnel, in the following manner: (a) strengthening of the recently established
Department of Public Health at the Tartu Medical Faculty to train doctors and
other health professionals, at pre-clinical, graduate and post-graduate levels, as
well as hospital and health insurance administrators on health management,
financing, and economics; (b) strengthening the newly created Department of
Polyclinics and Family Medicine to train family doctors; (c) creating a Center for
Continuing Education of health professionals in Tallinn (to be housed in an
existing research institute with excess space available); and (d) constructing a
Biomedical and Health Sciences complex at the University of Tartu for pre-
clinical medical and public health training programs and to house MSA's
National Pharmaceutical Agency and Tartu City Public Health Laboratories.
C. Efficient Management of Financial Resources (US$4.4 million total cost).
This component aims to improve the management capacity of the CHIA and the
local health insurance funds and to help establish clear links between these funds
and health care providers. The component would improve the Agency's capacity
to collect, retrieve and analyze information needed for providers and the
insurance administration.
D. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) (US$1.0 million total cost), already
established in the Ministry of Social Affairs during project preparation, will
oversee project implementation and management and will strengthen MSA's
capacity to coordinate external assistance for health. The project Director at
MSA is assisted by two coordinators, one at the University of Tartu and another
at the Central Health Insurance Agency. In addition to its regular functions as
project coordinating unit, the MSA PCU will manage studies, surveys, and
technical assistance and will also undertake overall project monitoring and
evaluation, consolidate project progress reports, undertake procurement and



ensure timely auditing of project accounts. The PCU would receive policy
guidance and act as the secretariat of a Health Reforn Coordinating Conmmittee
chaired by the Minister of Social Affairs and comprising a representative
designated by the Rector of the University of Tartu and the Director of the
CHIA.
Benefits:           The project's support of health reform, training of lhealth personnel in modern
public health and medicine and changes in financial management and evaluation
would improve the health of Estonia's people and increase efficiency in health
service delivery and cost containment. In the medium term, the emphasis on
preventive measures and promotion of healthy lifestyles, added to the
improvements in quality of health personnel and clinical treatments, would lower
adult mortality and morbidity due to tobacco and alcohol consumption, unhealthy
diets, and women's reproductive health problems. Improved tax collections and
implementation of country-wide redistribution of health insurance funds intended
to improve equity would benefit the low income population. The adoption of
health promotion programs in family planning, anti-smoking, cardiovascular
conditions and injury control could save 29,000 disability-adjusted life years
(DALYs) between program start and the year 2004, accounting for direct and
indirect savings of EEK328 million (US$25 million). Also, less costly health
services would reduce the costs born by industry -- especially important in a
growing economy with relatively scarce labor. In addition, Estonia's experience
with health reform could serve as a reference for other countries under similar
circumstances.
Risks:               The main risks are: (a) the difficulties involved in transforming a curative health
system into one more focused on disease prevention and health promotion; (b)
the complexities entailed in restructuring of institutions and in strengthening the
management of the health insurance funds; (c) the Government may not remain
committed to implement the agreed reforms; and (d) the Government's lack of
experience in implementing Bank-financed projects.  A positive factor that
reduces the risks is the strong commitment of the Government regarding the
proposed changes, evidenced by reforms already implemented. Moreover, the
design includes features to attenuate risks, such as ensuring continued technical
guidance and training for strengthening organizations and management practices.



-iv-
Estimated Project Costs
Local Foreign TOTAL
------ $Million  ----------
A. Health System Reorientation.
1. Institutional Development and Realignment in the MSA /a        0.5       3.2      3.7
2. Health Promotion and Disease Prevention                         1.4       0.2     1.6
B. Human Resources Development
1. Strengthening the Departments of Public Health and Polyclinic
and Family Medicine.                                            0.2       0.7      0.9
2. Creation of a Center for Continuing Health Education /b         0.5       0.3     0.8
3. Construction of the University of Tartu Biomedical Building     5.6      12.0    17.6
C. Efficient Management of Financial Resources
1. Local Provider/Health Insurance Interface                       1.5       1.4     2.9
2. Central Health Insurance Agency Development                     0.3       0.6     0.9
D. Proiect Coordination Unit                                         0.3       0.4     0.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                10.4      18.8    29.1
Physical Contingencies                                             1.0       1.9     2.9
Price Contingencies                                                1.4       1.1     2.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                 12.7     21.8    34.5
Financing Plan:
Government                                       11.3       3.2    14.5
Grants/c                                          0.0       2.0      2.0
IBRD                                              1.4      16.6    18.0
TOTAL                                            12.7      21.8    34.5
\a Ministry of Social Affairs
\b The Institute of Experimental and Clinical Medicine under the scientific supervision of the Tartu Medical Faculty
\c From Finland, Canada, Denmark and EU-PHARE
Estimated Disbursement Timetable
IBRD Fiscal year
1995       1996        1997        1998          1999
---------------------------($ Million)---------------------------------
Annual                       1.5         2.7         4.1          6.3           3.4
Cumulative                   1.5         4.2         8.3         14.6          18.0
Cumulative as % of Total     8%         23%         46%         81%           100%



ESTONIA
BASIC DATA SHEET
INDICATOR                                            ESTONIA            YEAR
Country and Income Data
Area ('000 sq. km)                                    45.2               1993
Population Density (pop. per sq. km)               34.8               1991
GNP per capita (US$)                            2,750.0               1992
Population Indicators
Population (millions)                               1.60              1993
of which urban (percent)                    71.4               1991
Population growth rate (percent)                   -1.32              1993
Population 15-64 years (percent)                   66.1               1991
Crude birth rate (per 1,000 population)            10.1               1993
Crude death rate (per 1,000 population)            13.0               1992
Life expectancy at birth (years): Women            75.0               1991
Men                         65.0               1991
Health Care Indicators
Population per physician                          275.0               1992
Population per nurse                              125.0               1992
Hospital beds per 1,000 population                  9.7               1992
Inmmunization (under 1 yr): % of age group
Measles                                     82.0               1991
DPT                                         62.0               1991
Total Health Expenditures as% of GDP                4.3               1992
Reproductive Health
Share of women of childbearing age                 45.6               1991
Fertility rate (births per women)                   2.1               1991
Contraceptive prevalence
(percent of women in fertile age)           26.0               1991
Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 births)           15.4               1993
Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 births)       30.6               1992
Health Financing
Total health expenditures as
a % of GDP                                   4.3               1992






-1-
ESTONIA
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND AND ISSUES
A. Background
1.1        Estonia began the economic transition process earlier than the other Newly Independent
States (NIS) and the pace of reform quickened during the last two years. A strong macroeconomic
stabilization program was adopted in mid-1992 and the combination of tight monetary and fiscal
policies, including wage restraint, along with the elimination of price controls in early 1992, has
stabilized the economy. Inflation has leveled at 36% for the past year, budget expenditures are
under control and the economy is expected to expand by 5 % this year (IMF projection). Additional
information on the macroeconomic situation can be found in the Country Assistance Strategy for
Estonia (September 1994).
1.2        A similar commitment exists in health care reform. Advances have been made on
many fronts: all "parallel" health systems have been integrated into a public health care network;
health insurance is in effect; the number of hospital beds has been reduced by 20%; there have been
reductions in the average of annual outpatient consultations; admissions to medical school were also
reduced; and modern public health concepts are being introduced as part of medical education. All
these are excellent actions. Important advances in health status are noticeable, particularly in
reducing mortality from infectious diseases. However less success was achieved in other areas:
cardiovascular diseases, accidents and injuries have much higher death rates than in the neighbor
countries.  High tobacco and alcohol consumption, poorly balanced nutrition, traffic and
occupational injuries, reduced quality and efficiency in service delivery, lack of training in modern
public health, as well as sustainability and accountability problems in the health financing are
significant determinants of these differentials. Estonia needs to reorient its public health services
to health promotion and disease prevention programs, to improve efficiency and quality in the
service's delivery, to train and retrain health professionals to support the health reform and to
strengthen the management capacity of the system's organization and financing. The proposed
health project will improve the health of Estonia's people, by emphasizing health promotion,
enhancing efficiency and quality, developing human resources and by providing instruments for
sustainability, cost-effectiveness and equity to the ongoing reforms.
Status of Health System Reform
1.3        The old Soviet-style health system was highly centralized. While it covered 100% of
the population at no charge to the patients, it was inefficient. The system placed an undue emphasis
on curative services and this led to early specialization in medical education. The modern concepts
of family medicine and public health prevalent in many Western countries in recent decades did not
permeate into the old Soviet system. Moreover, the medical community endured a long period of
scientific isolation from Western advances and, as a consequence, medical training programs fell
far behind modern standards.



-2-
1.4         The Ministry of Social Affairs (MSA) was created in 1992, bringing together social
security, labor and health. The Health Insurance Law became effective in January 1992, changing
the way health services are financed, from a centrally-managed system financed almost entirely from
general government revenues, to a decentralized system financed by a wage-based social security
tax administered through local insurance funds. In April 1994, this law was revised taking into
account the experience of the first two years of implementation. In January 1994, Parliament
approved a new Health Care Services Organization Law, which became effective in February 1994.
This Law prescribes a new organization of health services which places responsibility for primary
health care (PHC) services at the county (district) level and for specialized medical care
(secondary/tertiary levels) at the hospitals. Another law currently being processed by Parliament
is the Health Protection Law (based on already approved laws on preventive and promotion
programs for children, passed in January 1993) expected to be approved in the Fall of 1994, to
legislate the manner in which health promotion and preventive programs will be carried out. Other
laws related to health protection and promotion being prepared deal with consumer protection,
tobacco, food products, workplace, alcohol, mental health, and communicable diseases. (Annex 1
gives details on health conditions, structure of the health system and health reform.)
B. Key Sector Issues
1.5         The health care system  is experiencing a dynamic transition from  centralized to
decentralized administration and financing. This process is taking place through: (a) transfer of
financing responsibilities from the central government to the health insurance scheme; and (b)
delegation of most of the health administration tasks to the local authorities (county, community and
town doctors). These reforms need to be accompanied by a transformation of the central health
organization, now divested of its role as administrator of health services, into a policy-making,
regulatory and evaluating body.
1.6         The issues affecting the health sector, discussed below, are presented in three main
groups: (a) issues affecting the users; (b) issues regarding the health system infrastructure and
human resources for health; and (c) health financing issues. In Estonia there are great disparities
between the services offered and the needs of the users, i.e., discrepancies between the capacity,
quality and priorities of the health system structure and human resources, and the health profile and
needs of the users of the health system.  Resources such as health staff, hospital beds, and
polyclinics are still not used efficiently. As priorities, health service leaders and managers need
retraining to emphasize family practice over medical specialization, community health over excessive
clinical orientation, and modern public health over sanitarian-epidemiological inspections.
Moreover, the new health financing system, aimed at supporting a universal mandatory health
insurance system, is in its developmental phase and needs to strengthen financial management
capacity, and establish operating procedures and a modern accounting system. Additionally, there
are currently significant problems of health insurance payment arrears and under-reporting of
incomes by both enterprises and the self-employed. Overall, the health system needs to improve
geographic equity and ensure financial sustainability, cost-effectiveness and accountability.



-3-
(a) Issues Affecting the Users of the Health System
A Crisis in Adult Male Health Conditions
1.7         The country has made important advances in health care, especially by reducing infant
mortality and commnunicable diseases. However, less success was achieved in other areas. Life
expectancy at birth has changed very little, from 64.3 years in 1960 to 64.7 in 1990 for men, and
from 71.6 to 74.9 for women. This slow progress (0.4 years for men and 3.3 years for women)
is similar to that experienced by other Eastern European countries, but compares poorly with
advances in Western Europe."' The path followed by overall life expectancy at birth in Estonia since
1960 masks divergent trends in the health situation of infants and adults. While infant mortality is
less than half of the 1960 level (15.4 now, compared to 31.1 per 1,000 in 1960 1') during the same
period there have been almost no improvements in the health status of male adults and this has
become the paramount health problem for Estonia. From 1960 to 1990 the life expectancy of men
at age 30 decreased from 69.6% to 69.1 %, although that of women at age 30 increased from 75.6%
to 79%.
1.8         During the same period there was a rise of 40% in deaths due to circulatory diseases
and injuries, and of 15% in those due to cancer, while the death rates from respiratory diseases
declined by 45% and deaths caused by infectious and parasitic diseases fell to one-tenth the 1960
values. In 1990, Estonian age-standardized death rates from diseases of circulatory system for males
were 72%  higher than in Finland, 83%  higher than in Germany and more than twice those in
Sweden. Similarly, male death rates caused by accidents, injury and poisoning were 60% higher
than in Finland, 49% higher than in Germany, and twice as large as those in Sweden.
1.9         The increased threat from non-communicable diseases over the last 30 years reflects
the importance of several well established risk factors, especially smoking, alcohol consumption,
a high fat diet, lack of physical exercise, careless driving, health damaging occupational conditions
and environmental pollution. Most of these factors are life-style associated and the health care
system, as it now stands, is poorly prepared to deal with the problem. Emphasis on curative
medicine and fragmentation of health care services, with little or no concern for disease prevention
and health promotion has been a weak and ineffective strategy to deal with the major health
problems affecting the population. Instead, a comprehensive policy -- already adopted by the
Government -- based on health promotion and protection encompassing the entire health system, and
on suitably reoriented health professionals and well equipped and managed health establishments,
is needed.
Improvements in life expectancy at birth in Western Europe between 1960 and the early 1990's were
as follows: Norway 1.4 and 3.7; the Netherlands: 1.9 and 4.6; Sweden: 3.0 and 5.3; Finland: 5.3
and 6.3; and Portugal: 6.2 and 9.7 respectively, for men and women. Differences with Estonia are
more marked taking into account that in 1960, all these countries (except Portugal) had life
expectancies higher than Estonia.
2        In spite of the reduction in infant mortality, infant deaths are still 30 percent higher in Estonia than
the OECD average.



-4-
Excessive Rates of Abortions and Inadequate Access to Contraception
1.10        Women's health, although better than in other NIS, is still behind Western European
standards. Among the positive aspects, coverage and access to maternal and child health services
is widespread. Pregnant women are seen by a doctor 10-12 times on average during the gestation
period and almost all deliveries occur in a hospital. Percentages of deliveries by caesarean section
(5 to 8%) and of deliveries using forceps are low. Since 1992 there has been further progress in
the approach to pregnancy care and deliveries, with the adoption, by several hospitals, of family
delivery and baby-friendly maternities. There is also a reasonable referral system. However,
maternal mortality, due, to a large extent, to the excessive number of abortions is very high;
indeed, the rate of 30.6 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births is still three times the European
average and it is even double the WHO "Health for All" world-wide target of 15 per 100,000.
1.11        Abortion is still the most common method of birth control (1.58 abortions per live-
birth in 1992), with less than 26% of women of reproductive age (15-49 years-old) using
contraceptives (mainly IUDs and hormonal pills). Health professionals are aware of the need to
prevent abortions through more widespread availability of several contraceptive methods. The
CHIA adopted measures in early 1994 aimed to increase access to contraceptives and discourage
abortions; these include requiring insured women to pay 50% of the cost of an abortion and using
these funds to provide free contraceptives for at-risk women. Another favorable development is the
creation of an Association for Family Planning affiliated to the International Planned Parenthood
Federation (IPPF), expected to take place this year; the usual role of these associations is to
encourage both public and private health providers (doctors and pharmacies) to prescribe and
dispense contraceptives and to act as a catalyst in the introduction of family planning as a subject
in medical and other health staff training curricula. In other areas of women's health, breast and
cervix cancer incidence and mortality are not decreasing, and lung cancer mortality rates in women
are clearly increasing. The incidence of venereal diseases (syphilis and gonorrhea) in the population
is also rising.
(b) Issues Relating to Health System Infrastructure and Human Resources
Inefficient Use of Resources
1.12        Centrally directed inflexible rules regarding planning of facilities and personnel during
the Soviet period left Estonia with serious inefficiencies in the health system infrastructure including
too many hospital beds, inefficient buildings, lack of modern equipment, and weak maintenance
systems. Before 1991, Estonia had an average of 12. 1 acute beds (short-term occupancy) per 1,000
population, compared to the average of 9.4 in WHO/EURO countries. 1' Nearly 4,000 acute beds
were eliminated through closures and downsizing and, as of 1993, acute beds have been reduced
to 9.5 per 1,000. There has also been some progress in reducing the average length of stay (ALOS)
from 17.5 days in 1990, to 16.2 in 1992, although further reductions would be desirable to increase
efficiency and reduce costs (in US the ALOS is 4 and in Denmark 9). Similarly, lowering the
In 1992 there were 118 hospitals with 14,843 beds of which 30 were hospitals for tertiary care, with
5,500 beds. Several tertiary - and secondary-care hospitals are overcrowded, while some of the
recently built secondary-level hospitals are less than 60 percent occupied. There are about 300
primary health care facilities (polyclinics, small hospitals and occupational health units).



-5-
number of beds to 7 per 1,000 would be a good target. However, these further steps could only
be taken if excess hospital beds are converted into lower cost shelters; most elderly persons and
chronic patients cannot be discharged early to their homes because of poor heating and inadequate
living standards. When conditions improve in the future, it should be possible to lower occupancy
rates in hospitals, vacate some of the most seriously impaired hospital buildings, and consolidate
staff and equipment in the facilities that are in good state of repair, thus attaining a high level of
utilization per square meter, and substantially reducing energy costs.
State of Disrepair and Obsolescence of Health Facilities and Equipment
1.13        A recent study showed that the health facilities and equipment in Estonia are in such
poor condition that they have reduced the overall quality of health care. Hospital facilities were
designed with over-sized areas and unsuitable circulation patterns generating inefficiencies in
maintenance, heating, lighting, cleaning and safety. Very little attention is given to traffic flow and
service and patient areas are often placed in available space, without regard to functions and needs,
thus creating serious inefficiencies. Heating costs represent between 25 and 30% of hospital running
costs; this disproportionate burden is the result of inefficient construction and absence of heat meters
to measure consumption. Specialized health training facilities, such as those for pre-clinical training
at the University of Tartu, suffer from other kinds of problems: existing buildings are over 100
years old, scattered throughout the city, unsafe, and inadequate for modern medical and public
health training.
1.14        Thus, modern concepts and techniques of facility planning, programming, design,
construction and equipment are critically needed; initially external expertise would be needed to
introduce these concepts, but this information needs to be transferred to the local professionals. The
lack of suitable standards for planning, construction, safety and quality control of health facilities
and medical equipment is a serious obstacle to meeting the urgent needs in rehabilitation and repairs.
A country-wide assessment of hospital bed needs should be prepared taking into account the
proportion of acute and chronic patients, as well as numbers of elderly without a proper shelter in
winter. Moreover, before any new investments are made in construction of health facilities,
designs should be carefully evaluated and revised and unfinished buildings such as the new Valga
hospital and the old Parnu building should be redesigned for energy efficiency, traffic flow and
need-adjusted capacity. In addition, technology assessment methodologies and medical equipment
support systems, complemented by systems of accreditation, licensing, and hospital quality assurance
(QA) would guarantee the overall quality of health care and user satisfaction.
Distortions in Health Human Resources for Health
1.15        The Estonian health system inherited serious distortions in human resources for health
due to an excessive number of specialized physicians and an almost complete lack of family doctors, 1'
weakly managed health institutions, a lack of information, outdated medical and other health staff
education, a curative rather than preventive and public health orientation, and an ineffective system
of licensing for health professionals. The Government is beginning to correct these problems and
significant changes are noticeable. These include the creation of new Departments of Public Health
Name given to physicians in general practice of medicine: another common designation is general
practitioners or GPs.



-6-
and Family Medicine in the Tartu Medical Faculty, whose respective functions are to train doctors
in modern public health at graduate and post-graduate levels and to train doctors to become family
physicians. In both instances, significant institutional support will be needed to help the university
to adopt a problem-oriented training model that would contribute to change the pattern of medical
culture, beginning with the early stages of medical training.
1.16        Another important issue is the reorientation of medical specialties: the number of
physicians per 10,000 population has declined from 42 in 1991 to 34 in 1993, through emigration,
repatriation and retirement. This number is still very high compared with other developed countries
(in Sweden and Norway there are 22 physicians per 10,000 population, in UK 15; 22 would be a
good target, according to accepted norms in Western countries. Also, many physicians are currently
unemployed or under-employed; this leads to unnecessary patient visits or treatments by physicians.
It also encourages needless surgical procedures and extended hospital stays. Responding to this
problem, this year the University of Tartu reduced admissions, from almost 200 in previous years
to 90. Present Government policy supports the need to change the mix of the medical commnunity,
with more emphasis on family doctors and a better balance among specialties. Indeed, many of the
current obstetrician-gynecologists, cardiologists, internal medicine specialists, pediatricians, and
neurologists, should be re-trained as family doctors, as well as to become specialists in areas not
sufficiently covered now, such as neo-natologists, gastroenterologists, anesthesiologists, clinical
pathologists and nephrologists.
1.17        As a positive response to this problem, the Government has already decided to adopt
and implement suitable re-training programs. A new Department of Family Medicine was created
in the University and new curricula has been developed to re-train doctors into family medicine.
The new curriculum includes public and environmental health, and updated medical training in
pediatrics, women's health, as well as advice on prevention and treatment of most common adult
chronic diseases. Family doctors are expected to become the backbone of primary health care of
Estonia's 21 districts. To date, 65 family doctors have been already trained.
1.18        Other health professionals, not only doctors working in the clinical area, also need to
update their skills. These include health service managers, hospital and medical care administrative
staff, nurses and newly recruited health insurance managers, as well as the health protection service
staff-- former San-Epid (earlier Health Protection Service) inspectors. Nursing education is a
Government priority and new curricula has been introduced in several nursing schools, with Danish
cooperation. The Government, in agreement with the University of Tartu, has decided to create a
Center for Continuing Education of Health Professionals, to be located in Tallinn.
Need for Accreditation and Licensing Procedures and for Quality Assurance
1.19        Accreditation of health facilities, licensing of health professionals and QA tools and
systems are needed to improve overall quality and efficiency in the delivery of health care. Indeed,
in a decentralized health system with a mix of public and private service providers, the Government,
in cooperation with professional associations and other non-governmental organizations, will need
to develop a strong capacity for regulatory and evaluation functions including quality assurance in
hospitals, accreditation of health facilities and licensure of medical and other health personnel.
Procedures including infection control, medical audits, utilization reviews, second opinion and
routine autopsies should be part of the QA system. At the present time these systems are weak or
non-existent.



-7-
(c) Health Financing Issues
1.20        A new health insurance system, financed through a 13% payroll tax5', was created in
1991 and by 1993 it covered 78% of total public health expenditures. The remainder is covered by
local governments, since resources are no longer allocated from the national budget for health
services. In 1992, public expenditures on health were estimated at about 4.3% of GDP, and this
proportion may not be expected to increase. In April, 1994, Parliament amended the health
insurance law to halt the drain of funds resulting from provider-induced demand for hospital care,
and from investments by the most affluent insurance funds, in modern and expensive medical
technology. Thus, the new legislation addresses these problems and creates conditions for the
implementation of three suggestions made by Bank missions during project preparation: (a) central
collection of funds and redistribution to local health insurance funds on a per capita basis; (b)
incentives to mobilize a small fraction (around 1.5%) of the net collected amount to finance health
promotion activities; and (c) cost-control measures based on more accurate information on
expenditures and on caps for high-cost procedures (clinical budgeting). Also, among recently
adopted health insurance decisions, capitation funding should, with some refinements, allow for a
more equitable distribution of resources. However, several additional issues should be addressed
to make the new system sustainable and cost-effective, accountable, equitable and more responsive
to government health policy and strategy.
1.21        Need to develop capacity for forecasting income and expenditures. There is an
urgent need for the introduction of sound actuarial principles and models for use by the insurance
funds so that they will be able to forecast likely income and expenditures under different scenarios.
Funds already collect data on use of health services by age and sex and so it should be possible to
use these data to make basic forecasts and to develop more sophisticated models over time.
1.22        The payment collection system  is very fragile and fraught with potential
difficulties.  As already planned, it would be more efficient to merge collection of health
contributions with pension contributions, while keeping the two funds separately accountable. This
would facilitate the development of procedures to verify level of magnitude of income for each type
of employment. There is ample experience in other countries in design and implementation of
suitable income verification systems that could prove useful.
1.23        Lack of basic accounting procedures for managing and auditing financial flows.
Most hospitals lack systems of cost-accounting that would allow them to monitor and control
expenditure and implement efficiency savings. For their part, health insurance funds have basic
systems for controlling payments, but lack appropriate methods for filtering claims in a systematic
way.
1.24        Lack of various kinds of expertise within health insurance funds. Local funds have
neither the expertise nor the time to act as intelligent commissioners of services and to be able to
Out of the 13%, 3% is retained by firms, at the source, to pay for maternity beniefits and sick-leave.
T'he local funds retain a fixed amount per capita, to cover the population in their area; the surplus,
if any, is transferred to the CHI for a pcr capita redistribution to areas with ilisufficient revenue.
There are variations in the amounts collected by each local fund; those serving predominantly
agricultural areas experience chronic deficits, while those in industrial areas may have excess funds.



-8-
specify which treatments they wish to purchase, at what price, from whom, and to which quality
standards.  The introduction of a suitable system  requires that professionals with specific
responsibility for service specification are recruited and trained by health insurance funds. The
funds should also have access to a national database on clinical cost-effectiveness and expertise in
protocol development. There is a need for a critical appraisal of the size and functions of local
funds and for decisions on how to carry out the more sophisticated functions just described -- either
by recruiting more staff, by passing some of the routine data processing to a central agency or by
merging with other funds.
1.25        Lack of regulation of semi-autonomous health organizations (sick funds, hospitals
and polyclinics) figures prominently among the issues affecting the health service providers. As a
consequence of relatively little explicit regulation there is currently considerable potential for abuse.
Relatively little control over high technology capital equipment has led to the purchase of much
diagnostic equipment with little evaluation of whether it is necessary. At the same time, there is
a substantial role for the development of certain technologies such as minimally invasive procedures
that considerably lower hospital stays and allow much surgery to be done on a day case basis.
Regulation and evaluation of medical technology is a feature of most health systems, even those with
heavy reliance on the private sector, and a national strategy for evaluating the medical and economic
value of these technologies is required to prevent waste and promote efficient techniques.
1.26        How to achieve more efficiency and quality through competition. Private health
care services are growing very slowly, although their rate of growth can be expected to rise with
improvements in the economy. Private sector regulation is needed so that it can compete in
efficiency and quality with the public sector; competition would also generate awareness on the
advantages of modern management within the entire health sector. The current payment structure
is full of perverse incentives that lead to provision of unnecessary or ineffective health care.
Financial incentives should be designed to allow for a reliable and competitive health care private
market. Contracting out of specialized services should be adopted in hospitals and other health care
services, on a competitive basis. Public hospitals and services should be open to the private
management initiative.
1.27        Need for information systems and other tools responsive to modern managers. A
decentralized health system, accountable to the county administration and to insurers, has to use
comprehensive and flexible data systems and management information tools. Several of the
requirements are readily identifiable: (a) health services utilization data, associated with routine
health statistics; (b) cost-accounting standardized instruments for hospitals and polyclinics; (c)
standardized patient's billing systems; (d) computer-assisted data bases and data communication
systems, to facilitate direct liaison between providers and health insurance funds; and (d) methods
for analyzing health expenditures at the national level.
C. Government Strategy
1.28        Advances in the Government's health strategy have been made on many fronts: all
"parallel" health systems have been integrated into the public health care network; health insurance
is already in effect; hospital beds have been reduced by 20% in less than two years; a public health
unit was established in the MSA and a new Department of Public Health was created at the
University of Tartu, following the Government's decision to discontinue training in sanitary



-9-
epidemiology at Moscow and St. Petersburg; candidates for medical schools were reduced from 200
per year to 90; the first group of family doctors was recently trained and a school of nursing for
advanced degrees was recently created at Tartu University.
1.29       A health policy paper setting priorities for health reform was prepared and adopted by
MSA as a basis for such reforms (Annex 2). Regarding legislation related to health reform, the
following are recent new developments: (a) the new law on organization of health care stressing the
role of county doctors as local coordinators of preventive and curative care was passed in Parliament
in February 1994; (b) recent legislation on road safety was passed strengthening enforcement of use
of seatbelts and banning driving under the influence of alcohol; (c) the amendment of the health
insurance law was prepared and approved as scheduled by Parliament in April 1994; (d) there is a
bill in Parliament containing restrictive regulations on tobacco advertising in mass media and on
smoking in public places; and (e) new legislation on the integration of Health Protection Services
(former San-epid) was prepared by Government and will soon be sent to Parliament.
D. Role of Other Donors
1.30        The Policy and Human Resources Development Fund (PHRD) sponsored by the
Government of Japan provided US$550,000 for project preparation. Several bilateral organizations
have also shown interest in contributing through parallel finance for the project. EU-PHARE
(European Union - Pologne Hongrie Action pour la Reconversion Economique) already provided
500,000 ECU's (European Currency Unit) for technical assistance in health financing, under terms
of reference (TOR) prepared by the Bank, as part of project preparation. Moreover, EU-PHARE
is in the final steps of the approval of 1 million ECUs (European Currency Unit) to support
technical assistance needed for project implementation on its program for 1995. Additionally,
international development institutions from Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Canada and Germany have
been directly contacted and invited to contribute with financing to cover specific technical assistance
and foreign training costs. A list of technical assistance activities and respective terms of reference
were prepared and used by the Government in contacts with donors, at a meeting held in Tallinn
on April 15, 1994 and as attachment to their formal requests for financing to donors. Government
has expressed the following preferences: Danish cooperation is sought for quality assurance,
accreditation, equipment maintenance, public health and nursing training;  Finland, for the
development of the health promotion program and for fellowships on health administration; Canada
for the support of health financing component and institutional support for the project coordination
unit; Sweden for assisting, through a hospital partnership program, in strengthening hospital
administration and WHO, for development of tools for policy analysis.  In response to a
Government request, the Bank assisted in securing financing from the various donors. Results are
reflected in the financing plan (para 3.6). Formal agreements between the respective donors and
the Government of Estonia are being prepared.
E. Lessons Learned and Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.31       This is the first lending operation for the health sector in Estonia. Valuable lessons
have been drawn from similar Bank projects in other countries -- particularly Eastern European
countries -- as well as from the experience of other donors. The most frequently encountered
problems that would be relevant to this operation include coordination problems among institutions



-10-
participating in the project, government inexperience with Bank procedures, initial weak
implementation capacity, and resistance to accept external technical assistance. Project preparation
and design takes into account these findings, through a strong government role in project
preparation, detailed briefings on the Bank project cycle, careful planning and establishment of a
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) before appraisal and detailed definition of technical assistance and
training programs.
1.32        The Bank's experience in Estonia dates only from  1992. A rehabilitation loan of
US$30 million approved in October, 1992, has a health component of US$3.5 million for
pharmaceutical products and small medical equipment. The Bank also facilitated co-financing by
JEXIM (US$20 million, of which US$4.6 million was devoted to health-related imports). The
Bank's overall country strategy for Estonia emphasizes strengthening and streamlining the social
safety net and improving the accessibility and quality of basic health services. Support to health
sector reform and increased efficiency would be congruent with the Bank's overall strategy. In
addition to its specific objectives, the proposed operation would contribute to strengthening public
sector management, emphasizing maintenance and energy conservation and supporting cost recovery
and sustainable financing of health services. Bank involvement has already encouraged other donors
to enter the sector.



-11-
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
2.1         The proposed project would support the health reform  efforts initiated by the
Government and would aim to improve the health of Estonia's people by: (a) emphasizing health
promotion and disease prevention programs to increase awareness of healthy life styles, and
enhancing efficiency and quality of health services; (b) developing human resources by strengthening
modern public health training, integrated pre-clinical medical training, and continuing education for
public health doctors, family doctors, health insurance and hospital administrators, nurses and other
health personnel; and (c) supporting the on-going health financing reform to ensure its sustainability,
cost-effectiveness and equity through establishing sound cost, performance analysis and health
management information systems.
B. Main Project Features
2.2         The proposed project would provide technical assistance, fellowships, training,
laboratory and teaching equipment, computer hardware and software, civil works and refurbishment
of facilities, furniture and fixed equipment, and incremental recurrent costs for activities centered
in the reform process. The project, which would be implemented over a four-year period by the
MSA, the University of Tartu, and the CHIA, would consist of the following components:
(a)   Health System Reorientation Component will contain the following sub-components:
(i)  Institutional Development and Realignment in MSA would strengthen the
institutional capacity of the Ministry in four areas to facilitate health reform and
improve efficiency: 1) health policy and economic analysis, and health
management information system; 2) hospital efficiency enhancement, including:
(i) facility planning and re-design, (ii) hospital management development, and
(iii) medical equipment support; 3) quality assurance, and accreditation of health
facilities, and licensing of health professionals; and 4) primary health care and
health protection service reorientation -- including redefined functions for family
doctors, county doctors, community and town physicians, and health protection
staff.
(ii) Health Promotion and Disease Prevention consists of two main activities: 1)
annual funding of health promotion programs in support of local initiatives; and
2) national campaigns on promotion and prevention related to five priority
areas: anti-smoking, cardiovascular and heart disease prevention, injury control,
women's health and family planning.
(b)   Human Resources Development to be implemented by the University of Tartu, would
support the following sub-components:



-12-
(i) Strengthening the recently established Departments of Public Health and of
Polyclinics and Family Medicine, reinforcing public health and family medicine
training for doctors and other health professionals at pre-clinical, clinical and
post-graduate levels at Tartu Medical Faculty;
(ii) Creating a center for continuing education of health professionals in Tallinn,
under the academic guidance of Tartu Medical Faculty; and
(iii) Designing, constructing and equipping a new building for Biomedical and
Health Sciences at the University of Tartu.
(c)   Efficient Management of Financial Resources aimed at strengthening the capacity
of the CHIA and the Local Health Insurance Funds to collect, retrieve and analyze
information needed for providers and insurance administration through improved
accounting and management information procedures, health insurance enrollment and
collection, and reimbursement methods; it would also help establish electronic links
between these funds and health care providers.
(d)   Project Administration consists of an already established PCU  in MSA  and
coordinators -- one each in the University of Tartu and in the Central Health Insurance
Agency (CHIA) -- and appointment of a Health Reform Implementation Committee.
C. Description of Components
Component A: Health System Reorientation (US$5.4 million or 19% of total base cost)
2.3         This component, to be implemented by MSA, will reorient the present health system
structure and functioning to meet the actual requirements of the users more effectively. This will
be done through major thrusts in the institutional development of MSA, focusing on improving its
role in policy making, economic and cost analysis, and standard-setting, and in encouraging effective
promotion of healthy lifestyles and integrated (preventive and curative) delivery of primary health
care.
Sub-component A.1: Institutional Development and Realignment of MSA (US$3.8 million base
cost)
2.4         This sub-component would assist implementation of the Government policy to
decentralize the health system and change MSA's role from administration of health services to
leadership in setting sector policies, priorities and norms. The project would accomplish this by
supporting the Government on the new mission of MSA in health, and on its specific functions,
staffing profiles, and schedule of the institutional changes, ensuring that the following functions for
MSA are included in the reform: (a) health policy and economic analysis, and Health Management
Information System (HMIS); (b) hospital efficiency enhancement (including management, technology
assessment and enhancement, equipment maintenance and facility redesigning); and (c) quality
assurance, accreditation of health facilities and licensing of health professionals. A policy document
describing the reorientation of the health system and the proposed obiectives and functions of a
reoriented MSA has already been presented to the Bank. (Annex 2). The sub-component would
finance 26 person-months of foreign and 53 person-months of local technical assistance, 2 long-



-13-
term fellowships, short-term visits abroad for 54 persons, and local training for 17 participants,
testing equipment for demonstrations, computers and software, office furniture and incremental
recurrent costs to assist in implementation of reform.
(a) Health Policy and Economic Analysis
2.5         MSA would develop capacity to define and adopt policies, strategies and priorities that
would be followed by the local health services. The main principles underlying these policies
include integrated health care services in a cost-effective manner, through a sustainable, accountable,
and equitable health financing system. This aim should be accomplished through the creation of a
health policy and economic analysis unit, located in the office of the chancellor -- an optimal
location within MSA to achieve effective coordination. The Unit Director would report directly to
the Chancellor. The Policy and Economic Analysis Unit in MSA would receive inputs from the
existing Living Standards Unit, the Informatics Unit, the Finance and Budgeting Unit, the Medical
and Social Statistics Bureau, and other appropriate data sources; it would work in close cooperation
with the Medical Care and Public Health units, which undertake policy issues identification and
analysis. The economic and policy analysis unit would develop, through technical assistance and
training, capacity to organize and use periodic surveys of private sector activities and household
health expenditures.
2.6        This unit would also direct the design of a HMIS.  The HMIS would provide
information for policy and management decisions, feedback to service providers and managers, and
for monitoring and evaluating the network of public health institutions, through the county health
offices. It would include modules to handle accreditation and quality assurance data. The HMIS
would also be used for disseminating findings regarding data on prevalence of smoking, living
conditions and communicable diseases and injuries, to enable county health officers and family
doctors to reorganize activities and programs and implement and evaluate decisions according to the
identified health needs. The HMIS would be designed according to the requirements of the policy
level, as well as the management and operational needs at the local level. The project would finance
consultancy services to assist in the design of the HMIS, and cover the cost of fellowships, training,
computer hardware and software, office equipment and furniture and incremental recurrent costs.
As a condition of loan effectiveness, the Government would appoint the Director of the Policy and
Economic Analysis Unit.
(b) Hospital Efficiency Enhancement
2.7         This component includes development of a master plan for hospitals and other health
facilities, a hospital management development program, and a medical equipment support program.
These activities are intended to attain savings and increase efficiency in hospital care by easing
constraints affecting the hospital system in Estonia including unutilized capacity, long lengths of
stay, deficiencies in management, budget and accounting, facility design, and equipment purchase
and maintenance.
2.8         For preparation of the master plan for hospitals and other health facilities, MSA's
Physical Planning Department would designate a working group formed by central and county staff,
assisted by external consultants. The plan would include provisions that could modify the present
hospital network regarding, inter alia, utilization of performance indicators, bed reduction, and
better integration of specialized outpatient care with hospital services. A first step would consist



-14-
of a nationwide chronic and acute hospital bed inventory and an assessment of hospital bed use by
elderly people as shelte; in winter (the latter is needed to identify needs for conversion of some
hospitals or wings, to nursing home facilities). There would be then a review of all plans and
designs for new health facility construction and remodeling currently underway in the country, in
order to advise on suitability and suggest revisions. Reviews of architectural designs would be done
by national architects, assisted by foreign experts in hospital and health facility construction. In
order to build competence in the field of health facilities planning and in hospital design and
construction, the project would include technical assistance (which would consist of organization of
seniinars for local architects), and short-term visits to neighboring countries. Any suggestions for
architectural re-design, construction or remodeling that may be suggested by the master plan would
not be financed by this project, but would be used in future remodeling and construction of health
facilities.
2.9         Hospital management development is a priority for achieving increased efficiency.
Hospital and department heads would receive management training to lead the process of change in
adopting new approaches to administration, budgeting, cost control, incentives and staff motivation,
procurement of goods and of subsidiary services (laundry, food, laboratory), and introduction of
modern information systems, as well as quality assurance and performance evaluation. Management
development would be implemented through a Sweden/Estonia hospital partnership program that
would be undertaken with financing from the Swedish Government; the project would complement
this assistance by financing training (to be implemented by the Center for Continuing Education --
para 2.20), equipment, facility redesign, incremental recurrent costs, and technical assistance.
2.10        A medical equipment support program, to be implemented by the Department of
Standards and Licensing (DSL) would lead to improved selection, maintenance, utilization, and
safety assurance of medical equipment. DSL would organize a Committee of Medical Technologies
to assess, together with municipal officials, countrywide equipment requirements in medical
facilities, particularly focusing on effective coordination in the acquisition of expensive high-
technology equipment (such as CT-scanners, MRIs, litotriptors and nuclear medicine equipment).
To facilitate equipment maintenance, DSL would develop a database on make, type, location, cost,
condition, and date of installation. It would also adopt international standards on safety and quality
control and functioning requirements. A small group of staff in DSL would become qualified to
conduct market reviews and comparative evaluation reports of equipment and to provide support to
county health and hospital administrators on procurement of medical equipment and introduce
quality control, maintenance and safety procedures. The project would provide technical assistance,
local and foreign training and workshops, testing equipment, computers and software.
2.11        As a condition of loan effectiveness. the Government would appoint a national working
group and a coordinator for the hospital and health facilities master plan and a Committee on
Medical Technologies under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) Accreditation of Health Facilities, Licensing of Health Professionals and Quality Assurance
2.12        Improving medical care services will need the support of the medical cofimmunity in
assuring the efficient use of resources. Decentralization of management of the health services and
introduction of private service providers make it imperative to establish systems of (i) accreditation;
(ii) licensing; and (iii) quality assurance (details in Annex 3). Regarding hospitals, the existing
accreditation system does not set out definitions, standards or administrative procedures; recently



-15-
MSA's Department of Standards and Licensing undertook a first round of hospital accreditation as
a baseline, using procedures and standards applied in other countries, adapted to Estonia's
conditions.  Concerning licensing of health professionals, currently there is only a one-time
permission to practice medicine and other allied health professions, consisting of successful
completion of qualifying university exams. In addition, all physicians are registered with MSA and
this registry records the professional experiences required for three Categories of Medical Practice.
However, 40% of currently registered physicians have no category rating. Further to the existing
inventories and base-line information collected, a first step in the program to improve health services
efficiency and quality will be to refine the parameters, standards and procedures for accreditation
and licensure.
2.13        The project would support technical assistance to MSA to define the following: (a)
refinement of the processes required for developing standard setting and accreditation of health care
institutions and licensing of various categories of health personnel; and (b) location and
organizational arrangements for accreditation of health facilities and licensure of health personnel
and for quality assurance. The schedule for development of the systems would be as follows:
review of refinement of procedures and standards (first year); testing regarding systems for licensing
physicians and accrediting acute hospitals and testing of licensing and accreditation of nursing and
ambulatory facilities (second year); and testing of licensing and accreditation of technical health staff
and long-term care facilities (third year). Nation-wide expansion of licensing and accreditation
procedures would take place, for each group, after tests are evaluated and revised. The project
would provide financing for technical assistance, training and incremental recurrent costs to develop
and test the accreditation, licensure and quality assurance systems. At the project's conclusion, the
three systems should be ready to function concurrently on a nation-wide basis. Durinz negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the Government that it would submit a report on status of
development of the accreditation, licensure and quality assurance systems with recommendations for
nation-wide application, no later than February 15, 1996.
(d) Primary Health Care and Health Protection Service Reorientation
2.14        This sub-component aims to redefine functions for family doctors, county doctors,
community and town physicians, and health protection staff. The recently approved Health Care
Organization Law states a new structure for the health services based at county and city levels and
various options for remuneration to family doctors and other physicians, including capitation,
contracts, and private practice. The county doctors are civil servants paid by local governments;
their main functions are to organize and monitor the health care service network and to ensure health
surveillance and protection. Specific functions include: (a) organizing preventive and medical care
service delivery; (b) monitoring the quality of care and the financial management and performance
of the public health care institutions and of private doctors who have contracts with health funds;
(c) ensuring appropriate data collection and analysis of the epidemiological situation and
environmental conditions in the community; (d) registering and notifying as necessary cases of
infectious diseases, as well as taking preventive measures; and (e) monitoring and implementing
appropriate measures against damaging environmental conditions.
2.15        New legislation that modifies the present Health Protection Service (HPS) specifies
functions for health protection staff (now working directly under the county health authorities) to
deal with environmental hazards including food and water-born infectious diseases, air pollution,
accidents and disasters and attention to social and physical living conditions. To perform these



-16-
functions with an integrated public health approach, family doctors, county doctors and health
protection staff will be re-trained following programs to be developed by the Center for Continuing
Education (para 2.21). This component would supplement current MSA actions to decentralize
health services, integrate curative and preventive programs, and diversify ownership. It would be
implemented by MSA's office of the Chancellor and the local health services and would finance
study tours for the above mentioned professionals, training, as well as technical assistance,
equipment and materials for county and family doctors.
Sub-component A. 2: Health Promotion and Disease Prevention (US$1.6 million base cost)
2.16        This component, to be financed through a grant from the Government of Finland and
supported by technical expertise from that countryA', would support a major thrust in promoting
healthy lifestyles to reduce the prevalence of preventable diseases and injuries. The leading causes
of mortality and morbidity would be kept at the forefront of national debates on reforms in public
health, health training, health care delivery and health care financing. This would form the basis
for a new national public health strategy including revised national nutrition guidelines, the gradual
elimination of smoking from public places, the enforcement of stricter regulations on road safety,
protection of the environment and safe workplaces, and family planning. The government share of
this component would be allocated annually in the regular budget, as other government contributions
to the project, although MSA plans to obtain these funds from a transfer from the CHIA, consisting
of a top-sliced percentage of the health insurance collections.
2.17        The component would support five major national Health Prevention Programs, to be
implemented by the Health Promotion and Prevention group in MSA, using Estonia-specific
approaches to primary prevention on smoking, injury control, coronary heart diseases, and family
planning. The project would also implement community-based programs and campaigns for adult
and women's disease prevention and health promotion using funds that could be accessed, on a
competitive basis, in accordance with pre-established criteria, by municipalities, health
organizations, health promotion/education centers, schools, hospitals, polyclinics, universities,
voluntary organizations, and the mass media. Proposals for specific programs would be submitted
for approval to MSA and they would be evaluated by ad-hoc health promotion committees consisting
of professionals selected on the basis of the expertise required for assessing the respective proposals.
Standard formats and instructions for submitting proposals would be made available to institutions
wishing to submit health promotion proposals. The sub-component would provide three person-
months of technical assistance, 29 short-term visits of health promotion professionals to Finland,
training of 150 persons, computer hardware and software, office equipment and furniture,
development and broadcasting of 100 mass-media programs, training materials and incremental
recurrent costs. During negotiations the Governmnent provided assurance that no later than JuIY 1,
1995, MSA would present the program for health promotion and disease prevention with operational
rules, procedures, financing and selection criteria satisfactory to the Bank. As a conditioni of loan
effectiveness, the Government would reach a formal understanding with CHIA for the annual transfer
of an appropriate percentage of health insurance tax proceeds to MSA for financinl. health
promotion and disease prevention programs.
6       Formal agreement between Estonia and Finland regarding this component is expected to be signed
by December 1994 for the fiscal year 1995.  If this agreement is not signed before project
effectiveness, the Government would increase its financing to cover any shortfall.



-17-
Component B: Human Resources Development -- University of Tartu (US$19.1 or 66% of total
base cost)
2.18       This component would support modern public health and general medical practice
training, updated curricula and facilities for pre-clinical medical training, and continuing education
programs for health professionals, to bring up the health manpower in Estonia to the standard of
Western countries. Training would respond to health human resource development needs of a
variety of project activities related to reorientation of the health sector and implementation of new
health financing approaches. There are two sub-components: (i) public health training (under the
Department of Public Health) and family medicine training (under the Department of Polyclinics and
Family Medicine); and (ii) continuing education of health professionals (academically under the
Tartu Medical Faculty, although located at Tallinn, in the Institute for Clinical and Experimental
Medicine). The component would also finance the construction and equipment of a new building
for pre-clinical and public health training at the University of Tartu. The existing building is 100
years old, crowded, unsafe from a health perspective and outdated for the training and research
needs of biomedical and public health sciences. Because the facility has to adjoin other classroom
buildings and dormitories used by the same students, it must be on the Tartu University campus.
There are no buildings available that could be adapted to the requirements of the identified training
needs. The building will also serve as the location for the Pharmaceutical Regulatory agency. A
Project Coordinator appointed by the University of Tartu, working in close cooperation with MSA's
Project Implementation Unit, would be responsible for monitoring this component. A Memorandum
of Agreement between the MSA and the Ministry of Education agreeing to make the University of
Tartu the implementing institution of this component and the MSA the coordinating agency was
signed by the respective Ministers on June 17, 1994; a signed copy of the Memorandum was made
available to the Bank during project appraisal.
Sub-component B.1: Strengthening the Departments of Public Health and Policlinic and Family
Medicine (US$0.9 million base cost)
2.19       This sub-component would support reoriented and updated training for (a) physicians,
both at under-graduate and post-graduate levels, it would also support the reorientation of medical
faculty curricula, both at pre-clinical and clinical levels, in an integrated preventive and curative
approach using problem-oriented training methodologies. These training programs would be housed
in Tartu's Biomedical and Health Sciences building -- Sub-component B.3. The project would
enable strengthening these departments by creating full professorship positions and recruiting
qualified teaching staff in the fields of health promotion, health economics, health management,
epidemiology, health promotion, and family medicine and developing such staff through long and
short-term studies abroad and in Estonia. Teaching staff would also be involved in research,
connected, inter alia, with health reforms and the priority health promotion and disease prevention
programs. Both departments would share the services of a computer specialist and electronic links
for internal as well as international communications with other universities. It would finance 3
person-months of foreign and 42 person-months of local technical assistance, 3 person-months of
short-term training, 10 one-year fellowships, short-term visits by 16 faculty members to other
countries, computers and software, training equipment and materials and incremental recurrent costs.



-18-
Sub-component B.2: Creating a Center for Continuing Education of Health Professionals
(US$0.8 million base cost)
2.20       This sub-component will be implemented in Tallinn's Institute for Clinical and
Experimental Medicine and will be administered by MSA under academic guidance of Tartu
University's Medical Faculty. It would support updated continuing education for: (a) family doctors
by Tartu University's Department of Polyclinics and Family Medicine, in cooperation with the
Estonian Association of Family Practitioners, on a continuing education basis; (b) county doctors
on public health planning and management; (c) hospital and health insurance managers on health
management, health financing and health economics; and (d) nurses and other allied professionals,
on modern public health and health administration topics. The project would finance refurbishing
of training facilities, curricula development, 1 person-month of technical assistance, local training
for 900 health professionals, computer and software, training equipment and materials, and
incremental recurrent costs.
Sub-component B.3: Building for University of Tartu's Biomedical and Health Sciences
Complex (US$17.4 million base cost)
2.21       This new facility will accommodate the Public Health and the Polyclinics and Family
Medicine Departments, the Pre-clinical Program of the Tartu Medical Faculty, MSA's National
Pharmaceutical Agency, and Tartu City Public Health Laboratories. It will replace scattered and
inadequate facilities currently being used for the above purposes and is expected to contribute to a
major reorientation and modernization of medical and other health training. Provision of new
facilities and equipment for the National Pharmaceutical Agency and City Public Health laboratories
would reinforce the objectives of the first project component relating to implementation of new
procedures and standards for quality assurance of medical practice and health services. Building
design will take into account practical programming of space in accordance with the anticipated
functions of the building, while ensuring energy efficiency. Construction supervision consultants
would be engaged for overseeing civil works implementation (details in Annex 4).
2.22       The Government would finance retroactively the initial stages of building design (para
3.16 on project financing) in order to enable construction to proceed on schedule. Criteria for pre-
qualification and procedures for pre-selection of architectural firms, as well as a draft contract for
building design, a detailed architectural brief, and additional relevant information were reviewed at
appraisal and found satisfactory. A Letter of Invitation to a short-list of pre-selected architectural
firms requesting proposals for design of the biomedical and health sciences complex were sent by
the PCU at the beginning of August 1994 and proposals were received by October 1994. Selection
of the firm to produce the architectural design and detail drawings for the building was conducted
in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank. Sample bidding documents for construction
would need to be satisfactorv to the Bank.
Component C: Efficient Management of Financial Resources (US$3.4 million or 12% of total
base cost)
2.23       This component will be implemented by the local health insurance funds and the
CHIA. The overall objective is to enable the system to use limited financial resources more
effectively. Specific objectives consist of improving the technical efficiency of the processes
currently being applied by the health insurance funds through, inter alia, introducing more



-19-
sophisticated accounting and revenue collection methods, as well as strengthening the allocative
efficiency of the system through improved contracting and reimbursement methods, to enable these
agencies to do direct funding in a more effective manner (details in Annex 5). Two sub-components
would address these objectives by supporting the ongoing health insurance reforms at two levels:
(1) the Local Health Insurance Funds and Providers; and (2) the Central Health Insurance Agency.
A Project Coordinator in the Central Agency, working in close cooperation with MSA's Project
Coordination Unit (para 2.31 - 2.33) would be responsible for monitoring execution of this
component. The CHIA coordinator will oe assisted by an administrator to plan and control activity,
and a secretary. Prior to negotiations, the Government appointed a financial component coordinator
in CHIA with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
Sub-component C.1: Local Provider/ Health Insurance Interface (US$2.7 million base cost)
2.24        Financial Management. Many local insurance funds and providers currently lack
systems for financial management and accounting. This sub-component is aimed at increasing the
efficiency and financial basis of local funds and providers by developing basic financial management
capacity, and establishing operating procedures and a modern accounting system. As a first step,
foreign and local technical experts would undertake an assessment and would prepare
recommendations for implementation, as appropriate, of an EU-PHARE pre-project exercise in
Parnu County that is currently reviewing possibilities for a local fund and hospital accounting
systems to enable improved financial management of insurance claims and reimbursements. Based
on this assessment and the Government's decision on the system to be adopted, the sub-component
would develop a local capability to provide on-going training for insurance funds and providers.
The project would support technical assistance to help develop and document accounting policy and
procedures for their use, as well as for developing curricula for local training courses for providers
and local fund managers.
2.25        The Center for Continuing Education would conduct, for the entire health financing
component, training-of-trainers (for 15 trainers to be selected from local agencies) and start-up
courses in financial management, accountancy practiccs and operational procedures including
contract methods for about 600 staff from provider units and local funds. These participants would
subsequently receive annual follow up and refresher training at the local level, for a total of 1,500
course attendants. In all, 13 person-months of foreign technical assistance will be provided for
training as well as for expert advise on topics described throughout this sub-component. About 170
computers and software would be financed for those providers still without suitable computer
support. Procurement, configuring, testing and installation of computers will begin soon after
project launching to test new accounting and other systems. During negotiations assurances were
obtained from the Government that by May 31. 1995 CHIA shall appoint consultants to review the
results of the EU-PHARE exercise in Parnu County and that no later than JulY 31, 1995 it wvould
decide on and adopt financial management and accounting systems for the local insurance funds and
providers, satisfactory to the Bank.
2.26        Health Insurance Revenue Collection. There are currently significant problems of
health insurance payment arrears and under-reporting of incomes by both enterprises and the self-
employed. This is an issue faced by many other countries and there is substantial expertise built
up in this area. Technical assistance of a revenue collection specialist will be provided to analyze
existing enrollment practices and define alternative procedures, as well as to develop methods for
screening under-reporting enterprises and recommend organization and procedures for establishing



-20-
an inspectorate to find these enterprises and enforce payment. Furthermore, a public information
specialist will assist in developing a capacity to inform employees and enterprise owners of their
obligations to register employees and accurately report wages to the authorities. Similar methods
will be developed for the self-employed. In the second year of the project, improvements in the
collection system will include the design of measures for validating individual income assessments
based on international experience in tax collection methods. As a final major step, an automated
enterprise fee reporting system to enable computer reporting of employees and size of payroll will
be established in the third year.  During negotiations. assurances were obtained from the
Government that by July 31. 1995 CHIA shall recruit a revenue collection specialist and a public
information expert and that by November 30, 1995 it shall submit to the Bank an action plan for
implementing recommendations on financial management and accounting systems for local insurance
funds and providers for the improvement of revenue collection and on a public information program
for employees and enterprise owners.
Sub-component C.2. Institutional Support to Central Health Insurance Agency (US$0.7 million
base cost)
2.27        This sub-component would enhance the capacity of the health insurance agency to
design, implement and monitor planning and operation systems more efficiently. There would be
two clusters of activities to strengthen CHIA: (a) improvement of basic systems on operational
procedures, budget planning process and basic quality control measures; and (b) development and
use of models for actuarial planning, to analyze existing and anticipated insurance expenditures in
relation to service demand, revenue collection and expected patterns of service delivery. For this
sub-component the project would finance 23.2 person-months of foreign technical assistance, 2
short-term (3 months) fellowships, two short-term visits, 16 computer systems and software, office
refurbishing, equipment and supplies and incremental recurrent costs.
2.28        Regarding the first cluster, in the first year advice would focus on improving basic
systems such as accounting and auditing methods' development, particularly concentrating on
curricula development, and training of agency staff in collaboration with the Center for Continuing
Education. Topics to be covered include basic accounting principles such as double entry book-
keeping, accrual accounting and depreciation of assets. Starting in the second year, technical
experts would undertake an overall assessment of the operations of the insurance system and would
recommend basic quality control measures, as well as technical advice on the management of fund
reserves to sharpen current procedures on auditing.
2.29        The second cluster would include activities and technical assistance to develop CHIA's
capability in actuarial analysis needed for the agency to become financially self-sufficient. This sub-
component would finance an initial actuarial analysis of the insurance scheme and assess the
information available to calculate risk factors for different population groups. Support would be
given to develop models to predict expenditure both at national and local levels. Technical assistance
will also be available to use the results of the actuarial analysis and combine it with current data
on service demand, assumptions about revenue collection and present and expected patterns of
service delivery. The resulting models will enable the agency to measure the expected impact on
revenue and health service expenditure under different operating scenarios. In the last two years,
further support would be provided to appraise the performance of the models and update and refine
them, as well as training and advisory assistance for the continued use and development of these
models.



-21-
2.30        Planning capability should not be limited to the prediction of future financial flows.
It should also enable the insurance agency to prioritize a purchasing plan for health services that can
be implemented through contracts with providers. Currently, contracts between providers and
insurance funds are based solely on a global limit on expenditure and regulations determined by a
provider's service capacity. The agency needs tools to decide which services it wishes to purchase,
formulate priorities, embody these in a purchasing plan and use them as a basis of contracts with
providers. The project will provide expertise to demonstrate how international databases could be
used to access data on clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness and it would provide advise on
how these data could be incorporated into protocols that would be part of provider contracts; these
would also include price and volume information and indicators to monitor quality of the care
provided. TOR for technical assistance in this cluster would require experts to conduct seminars
for staff and help the agency develop a purchasing and contracting plan to guide the local insurance
funds. At the local level, the expert would help develop training in contract specification and
negotiation in collaboration with the Center for Continuing Education.
Component D. Project Coordination Unit (US$0.8 million or 3% of total base cost)
2.31        The project coordination team consists of the PCU at MSA and the coordinators from
University of Tartu and the CHIA. The PCU is responsible for overall project management and
technical and financial management of the project. It would also contribute to strengthening MSA's
capacity to coordinate other donors' assistance in the health sector. The PCU receives guidance and
act as the secretariat of a Health Reform Coordinating Committee which is chaired by the Minister
of Social Affairs and comprises a representative designated by the Rector of the University of Tartu
and the Director of the CHIA. This committee will monitor progress of health sector reform.
During the early phases of implementation, project management consultants will help MSA adopt
modern management tools; this implies using critical path analysis, monitoring resource utilization,
overseeing day-to-day operations, evaluating progress, resolving bottlenecks, preparing periodic
progress reports, and ensuring the timely execution of tasks.
2.32        Consultants will provide expert support to the PCU and to the other two coordinators
as follows: (a) ensuring that funds (loans, grants, parallel financing and local counterpart funds),
resources (human, physical and information), and management support are made available to the
project when required through appropriate budgeting and planning; (b) managing special accounts
established for the project; (c) processing and/or expediting loan/grant fund withdrawal applications
and draw-downs; (d) consolidating and preparing progress and evaluation reports, financial records,
statements of expenditure, and audits; (e) coordinating implementation of various activities to ensure
that project objectives are met, and that the required actions are executed in an efficient and timely
manner in accordance with the planned project processing and implementation schedule; and (f)
procuring consulting services, goods and civil works for the project. Such support will help to
standardize processes and aim to achieve economies of scale through bulk procurement.
2.33        By the end of the project, the functions of this unit would have been institutionalized
in MSA, University of Tartu and the CHIA. For the PCU, the project will provide 18 person-
months of foreign and 8 person-months of local technical assistance for procurement, 6 computers
and software, office equipment and materials, 2 vehicles and incremental recurrent costs to enable
it to operate effectively. Before negotiations, the Government presented to the Bank formal evidence
that it has officially established the Health Reform Coordinating Committee and appointed the
procurement and the accounting specialists and coordinators at the University of Tartu and Central
Health Insurance Agency.



-22-
III. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Project Costs
3.1           The total project cost, net of taxes and duties and including US$5.4 million in physical and
price contingencies, is estimated at US$34.5 million, of which US$21.8 million (or 63%) would be foreign
exchange. Investment costs amount to 93%  of base costs and incremental recurrent costs, to 7%. Project
costs were estimated at June, 1994 price levels and include 10%  for physical contingencies.  Price
contingencies for local costs were calculated at 8% for 1995, 3% for 1996 and 2.7% per year for 1997 and
1998. For foreign costs, price contingency rates were 2, 2.5, 2.7 and 2.5 percent for 1995 to 1998,
respectively. The tables below present project costs by project component and by item of expenditures.
Table 3.1 Project Cost Summary by Components.
%      % Totbl
(EEK Million)           (US$ Million)         Foreign    Base
Local Foreign  Totbl    Local Foreign  Total    Exchange   Costs
A. Health System Reorientation
1. Institutional Development and
Realignment in the MSA /a                6.50   43.37  49.87    0.49    3.24    3.72        87           13
2. Health Promotion and Disease Prevention  18.86    2.28  21.15      1.41    0.17    1.58       11           5
Subtotal                   25.37   45.65  71.02     1.89    3.41    5.30       64           18
B. Human Resources Development
1. Strengthening the Departments of Public
and Polyclinic and Family Medicine       2.62    9.81  12.43    0.20    0.73    0.93        79            3
2. Creation of a Center for Continuing
Health Education /b                     6.38     3.86  10.25    0.48     0.29    0.76       38           3
3. Construction of the University of Tartu
Biomedicum Building                    75.70  160.17 235.87    5.65   11.95   17.60         68          60
Subtotal                   84.70  173.84 258.54    6.32    12.97    19.29      67         _6
C. Efficient Management of Financial Resources
1. Local Provider/Health Insurance Interface  19.69   18.89  38.57    1.47    1.41    2.88      49           10
2. Central Health Insurance Agency Development   4.00    7.76  11.76    0.30    0.58    0.88     66           3
Subtotal                   23.68   26.65  50.33     1.77    1.99    3.76       53           13
D. Project Coordination Unit                   4.26    5.82  10.09    0.32    0.43    0.75        58            3
Total BASELINE COSTS                         138.01  251.97 389.98    10.30   18.80    29.10      65          IW
Physical Contingencies                      13.80   25.20  39.00      1.03    1.88   2.91       65           10
Price Contingencies                         18.51    14.88  33.39     1.38    1.11    2.49      45            9
Total PROJECT COSTS                          170.33  292.04 462.37   12.71    21.79   34.51       63          119
\a Ministry ot Social Affairs
\b The Institute of Experimental and Clinical Medicine under the scientific supervision of the Tartu Medical Faculty.



-23-
3.2        Estimated costs to construct the Tartu Biomedical Sciences building are based on
unit prices derived from current contracts and cost analyses for similar standards of construction
in Tallinn and Tartu. Estimated unit costs of medical, laboratory and office equipment are based
on prices quoted in recent international competitive bids in other countries.  Estimates for
technical assistance and studies are based on current rates for foreign experts. Cost estimates for
training, travel allowances, salary for staff undergoing training, and other operating costs are
based on current costs or costing standards provided by MSA (selected cost tables are shown in
Annex 9).
B.  Incremental Recurrent Costs and Sustainability
3.3        The incremental recurrent costs that the project would collectively add to the budget
of the implementing agencies during its execution in the first year (1995) account for 2% of the
Government health budget. The annual incremental costs in the last year of the project (in
percentage terms of the estimated 1998 budget in 1994 prices) would amount to 1 % of the
projected budget. These incremental recurrent costs would be generated by: (a) additional
(discounting for reassigned) staff to run the HMIS in MSA and the management information
system in CHIA; (b) maintenance of medical and office equipment acquired under the project;
and (c) operating expenses related to project coordination and implementation and, once the
project is completed, to institutionalize new MSA functions (discounting for staff reassignment
or substitution). Incremental recurrent costs during project implementation would be assigned
as a Government contribution.
3.4        Any increases in recurrent costs should be assessed against the magnitude of the
institutional building intended in this project; in addition, significant savings are expected to result
from health promotion and disease prevention programs, restructuring of the health institutions,
improved management, and increases in efficiency. Indeed, one of the main objectives of the
proposed project is to strengthen the financial position of the CHIA by rationalizing expenditures
and reimbursements for medical services, and improving collections, accounting and financial
controls. Further, the structural changes that the project would support are expected to bring
major financial (as well as qualitative) benefits to the health system, which are expected to
continue well beyond the project period.
C. Financing Plan
3.5         The proposed loan of US$18 million would finance 52.2% of project costs, net of
taxes and duties. The loan would finance 76% of foreign exchange expenditures (US$16.6
million out of US$21.8 million) and 11 % of local expenditures (US$1.4 million out of US$12.7
million).  The Government would finance US$14.5 million to contribute to the cost of
construction, office equipment, training and local health promotion programs, and would finance
100% of recurrent costs. Donors would finance US$2 million for technical assistance, training
and fellowships.



-24-
Table 3.2 Project Cost Summary by Category of Expenditures.
%      % Total
(EEK Million)           (US$ Million)        Foreign    Base
Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign   Total   Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. Design                             1.69    9.57   11.26    0.13     0.71   0.84       85        3
2. Construction                      65.69   96.64  162.33    4.90     7.21  12.11       60        42
3. Supervision                        0.94    1.20    2.14    0.07     0.09   0.16       56        1
Subtotal               68.32  107.41  175.73    5.10     8.02  13.11       61        45
B. Equipment
1. Office Equipment & Furniture /a    7.48    9.67   17.15    0.56     0.72   1.28       56        4
2. Computer Hardware & Software          -   31.32   31.32       -     2.34   2.34       100       8
3. Laboratory Equipment               2.47   46.85   49.31    0.18     3.50   3.68       95        13
4. Testing Instruments                   -    8.44    8.44        -    0.63   0.63       100       2
5. Medical Kits for GPs                  -    8.71    8.71       -    0.65   0.65        100       2
Subtotal                9.94  104.99  114.93    0.74     7.83   8.58       91        29
C. Teaching Materials /b                 1.23    1.88    3.11    0.09     0.14   0.23       61        1
D. Technical Assistance
1. Foreign TA                            -   21.83   21.83       -     1.63   1.63      100        6
2. Local TA                           2.46        -   2.46    0.18        -   0.18        -        1
Subtotal                2.46   21.83   24.29    0.18     1.63   1.81       90        6
E. Training /c                          14.74    7.80   22.54    1.10     0.58   1.68       35        6
F. Fellowships                              -    8.06    8.06       -    0.60   0.60       100        2
G. Local Health Promotion Programmes /d  14.98      -  14.98    1.12          -   1.12       -        4
Total Investment Costs                 111.67  251.97  363.64    8.33    18.80  27.14       69        93
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Staff Salaries /e                    13.62        -  13.62    1.02         -   1.02       -        3
B. Miscellaneous Costs /f                5.91       =   5.91    0.44         _   0.44       _         2
C. Maintenance /g                        6.81       -   6.81    0.51         -   0.51        -        2
Total Recurrent Costs                   26.34       _  26.34     1.97        _   1.97       _         7
Total BASELINE COSTS                     138.01  251.97  389.98    10.30    18.80  29.10      65       100
Physical Contingencies               13.80   25.20   39.00    1.03     1.88   2.91       65        10
Price Contingencies                  18.51   14.88   33.39    1.38     1.11   2.49       45        9
Total PROJECT COSTS                      170.33  292.04 462.37   12.71    21.79  34.51        63       119
\a Includes training and audio-visual equipment
\b Books, journals, and mass media materials.
\c Short-term visits, foreign and local training, workshops, and seminars.
\d Competititve awards given to community-based groups for health programs.
\e Includes staff salaries while on short-term visits, training, and fellowships.
\f Various costs needed for project implementation.
\g Includes maintenance of equipment and infrastructures.



-25-
Financing Plan
Local             Foreign              TOTAL
Government                         11.3                  3.2                14.5
Other Donors*                       0.0                  2.0                 2.0
IBRD                                1.4                 16.6                18.0
TOTAL                              12.7                21.8                 34.5
* confirmed
3.6        Foreign donors are prepared to finance a large part of the technical assistance and
fellowships; firm commitments for 1995 were made as follows: Denmark: US$40,000; Finland:
US$100,000; Canada: US$600,000; EU-PHARE: US$1,260,000. A similar amount is expected in
the following years, and other countries -- Sweden, Germany -- are also considering the possibility
of providing bilateral support, which will be deducted from the Government's contribution for 1996
onwards. The Government's annual commitments would be reviewed as part of regular Bank
supervision and monitored through annual reports provided by the PCU as well as during the mid-
term review by November 1996. Schedules of disbursements for IBRD and the Government are
presented in Annex 10.
D. Procurement
3.7        Major procurement categories are building design and construction, refurbishing,
equipment, teaching materials, technical assistance and fellowships. Procurement for civil works,
goods and services would be done in accordance with Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits (May 1992). Procurement arrangements are presented in Table 3.3. Annex
7 presents planned procurement packages and planned schedule.
3.8        Civil Works. Construction contracts of US$300,000 or above will be awarded using
ICB. Bank's standard biding documents (June 1994) for small works will be used for ICB contracts.
Bidders for works under ICB will be pre-qualified in accordance with 2.10 of the Bank Guidelines
(May 1992).
3.9        Equipment. Major categories include office equipment and furniture, computers and
software, medical, laboratory and testing instruments, and teaching materials. For packages of
US$300,000 and over, contracts would be awarded using ICB (for office equipment and computers)
and LIB will be used where there are limited number of suppliers (this is the case of medical, testing
and laboratory equipment). Local shopping (LS) will be used for furniture, provided that furniture
packages would be below US$50,000. Equipment amounting to US$3.3 million will be procured
through ICB (copiers, telephone and fax machines, computers and office equipment); equipment
worth of US$5.0 million will be procured through LIB (medical, testing and laboratory equipment);
US$0.30 million will be used for the procurement of furniture through LS; and US$0.20 million
for teaching materials (books, journals and special training packages) through direct contracting
(DC) (for details see Annex 7). LS will be through three price quotations from qualified local
suppliers. For all ICB contracts, Bank's standard bidding documents for goods (May 1994) will be
used. In comparisons of bids for goods to be procured through ICB, domestic manufacturers
proposing goods meeting all advertised specifications and with a value added in the country of the
Borrower equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods, would be allowed a



-26-
margin of preference equal to the amount of custom duties and other import taxes a non-exempt
importer would have to pay, or 15% of the lowest c.i.f. bid price of such goods, whichever is
lower.
3.10       Technical Assistance.  Firms to produce the architectural design of the Tartu
Biomedical building for an approximate value of US$0.95 million have already been short-listed and
invitations sent. TA on construction supervision, at an estimated cost of US$0.2 million will also
be procured using selection from short-listed finns. TA worth US$2.0 is expected to be provided
by bilateral cooperation, if not, from Government's own resources. In the latter case, it is expected
to spend an aggregate amount of US$0.5 million on short-term assignments to individual consultants
and US$1.5 million on contracts with consulting firms. Selection and appointment of individual
consultants and consulting firms for technical assistance, would be consistent with the August 1981
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers. Individual consultant contracts
above US$50,000 and contracts with firms above US$100,000 would require Bank's prior review.
The Bank also pre-reviews Terms of Reference for all consulting assignments. For large time-based
contracts, such as the architectural design, the Bank's standard contract will be used. Other
activities that are to be financed by the Bank include fellowships (US$0.33 million), training in the
Departments of Public Health and Polyclinic and Family Medicine at the University of Tartu, and
in the Center for Continuing Education of Health Professionals, Tallinn (US$0. 11 million), and
competitive awards for health promotion programs (US$0.53 million, for details, see Annex 2 on
Health Promotion and Prevention, available on request).
3.11       All procurement would be carried out by the PCU at MSA. Since this agency has very
little experience with procurement, five PCU members participated in a training seminar organized
by Bank staff during project preparation in Tallinn. Technical assistance on procurement of civil
works and goods was also provided to the PCU by international consultants during project
preparation. In addition, the MSA has agreed to hire a procurement officer and an internationally
recruited procurement consultant familiar with Bank procedures to be employed in the PCU, the
second one through bilateral technical assistance from Canada.



-27-
Table 3.3 Summarv of Proposed Procurement ArranLements
(US $ million)
Procurement Method
ICB           Other               N.B.F.        Total
Construction           14.45           -                  0.11          14.56
(7.08)           -                   -           (7.08)
Equipment              3.3            5.9                 0.01          9.20
(3.3)         (5.0)/a                -           (8.3)
Furniture               -             0.3                  0.5          0.8
-           (0.3)/b                -           (0.3)
Teaching Materials       -            0.20                0.07          0.27
-           (0.2)/c                -           (0.2)
Technical Assistance     -            1.15                2.06          3.21
-          (1.15)/d                -          (1.15)
Fellowships & train.     -            0.44                2.26          2.70
-          (0.44)/e                -          (0.44)
Health Promotion         -            1.36                  -           1.36
-           (0.53)/f               -          (0.53)
Incremental costs       -              -                  2.40          2.40
Total                  17.75          9.35                7.40          34.50
(10.38)        (7.62)                -           (18.00)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IBRD.  Other methods include LIB, LS and DC.
/a Medical equipment, testing instruments, laboratory equipment (LIB)
/b Local Shopping (LS)
/c Direct contracting (DC)
/d The remaining TA to be provided by bilaterals and GOE
/e Not involving procurement; disbursements for these activities will be made after approval of these programs by the Bank.
/f Competitive awards for health promotion programs
3.12           Prior Review. All bidding documents, bid evaluation reports and contract awards for
all ICB and LIB and direct contracting purchases, as well as the first LCB for civil works and
contracts for studies with consultants over US$50,000 for individuals and US$100,000 for firms
would be subject to prior review by the Bank. The Bank also pre-reviews terms of reference for
all consulting assignments. Ex-post review of contracts disbursed against Statement of Expenditures
(SOEs) would be conducted during field supervision on the basis of random sampling. All
expenditures will be disbursed according to procedures acceptable to the Bank. The Bank will also
review master lists of equipment, packaging of bids and up-dated cost estimates.
3.13           Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR). As other countries of the former
Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, Estonia does not have a long tradition of competitive procurement
procedures. The Government has requested the Bank assistance in the development of a national
procurement law with the supporting regulations and bid documents required to institute such a
system and work is already underway. A CPAR is planned for FY96.



-28-
3.14       Procurement Monitoring and Reporting. The Government will keep the Bank
informed about the progress of the procurement schedule through the submission of regular quarterly
progress reports on procurement activities.
3.15       During ne_otiations. the above procurement arrangements were confirmed with the
Borrower. including the use of the Bank's standard bidding documents and consultant contract
formats.
E. Disbursements
3.16       'rhe date of project completion would be January 1, 1999 and the closing date, July
1, 1999. Disbursements from the proceeds of the loan over a four-year period (presented in Annex
10) will be for:
(a)  civil works (US$7.5 million): 100%  of foreign expenditures; 60%  for local
expenditures for other items procured locally;
(b)  supplies and equipment (US$7.5 million): 100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory); 80% of local expenditures for other items procured
locally;
(c)  training, fellowships, local programs and consultant's services (US$1.0 million): 100%
of foreign expenditures; 50% of local expenditures;
(d)   unallocated (US$2.0 million).
3.17       Payments for project costs would be administered by the PCU. Contracts for goods
and works above US$300,000 are subject to prior review by the Bank. Proceeds of the proposed
loan would be disbursed against withdrawal applications to be fully documented for contracts valued
at more than US$100,000 for goods and civil works. Contracts below this amount would be
disbursed against presentation of SOEs, for which the supporting documentation would be retained
by the PCU for periodic inspection by the Bank and by external auditors. The minimum size of the
application for direct payment and the issuance of the Special Commitment is US$50,000. To allow
start-up project activities related to the construction of the Biomedical and Health Sciences building
to proceed immediately, the Government would provide retroactive financing of up to US$ 270,000
for expenditures incurred on or after July 1, 1994 (including architectural consultant services for
building design).
3.18       Special Account. To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower would establish
a Special Account (SA) in a reputable commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
IBRD, to cover the IBRD's share of expenditures. The authorized allocation would be US$500,000
representing about four months of average expenditures effected through the Special Account.
Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or when one-
third of the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements
for replenishment would follow standard Bank procedures. In addition, monthly bank statements
of the Special Account, which have been reconciled by the Borrower, would accompany all
replenishment applications.



-29-
F. Accounting and Auditing
3.19       In addition to the general project accounts in the Central Bank, the Project
Coordination Unit would maintain a separate accounting of expenditures for each project component
and would prepare and provide to the Bank semi-annual reports on implementation progress along
with a financial statement of project expenditures. Accounting for all Special Account transaction
and for all other project-related accounts will be maintained in accordance with international
accounting standards. Project accounts, including the Special Account, would be maintained by the
PCU and audited annually in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and
Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank", dated March 1982. Audits will also be carried
out, at the same time and for corresponding periods in accordance with the Bank's guidelines, for
SOEs against which disbursements have been made or are due to be made from the loan and SOEs
which will be included in the audit reports accompanying the financial statements. The audited
financial statements for the Special Account, project accounts, and SOEs of the preceding fiscal year
and the resulting audit report in such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including
a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements made against certified statements of expenditure,
would be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of the Government's fiscal year. It is
recommended that the Government retain the same auditors to review the accounting systems and
supporting internal procedures and practices for the Special and Project Accounts and SOEs, and
recommend any needed changes.



-30-
IV. IMPLEMENTATION, MANAGEMENT, EVALUATION AND SUPERVISION
A. Status of Project Preparation
4.1        The project was prepared over a nine-month period by Estonian working groups
designated by MSA, assisted by consultants funded by the Japanese PHRD and Bank managed
bilateral trust funds. Several Bank preparation missions staffed with expertise relevant to the topics
of the project components had detailed discussions with the working groups on project design and
contents. Preparatory work included completion of a detailed functional program (both room-by-
room and equipment planning) for the Tartu Biomedical Building by consultants financed with
PHRD funds; this document was used in a Letter of Invitation that the Government sent in early
August, 1994, to short-listed architectural firms, requesting proposals for building design. National
priorities and evolving health policies were frequent subjects of discussions with the Governmnent
during preparation missions and were addressed throughout the project development process.
Specific activities were defined for each of the three components, and the respective roles and
responsibilities of the implementing agencies were assessed and described. Government commitment
to the project was evident during this process; moreover, the Government agreed to prepare a health
policy document that was discussed in draft form with the Bank at appraisal and will be officially
submitted before negotiations.  The implementing agencies received several technical papers
prepared by consultants (available in the project document files and listed in Annex 12) and adopted
many on their recommendations during policy and project development. To assist the early start
expected to be made on some works, it is recommended that retroactive financing for up to
US$270. 000 equivalent would be provided for expenditures incurred from July 20, 1994, covering
initial expenditures of the architectural designs of the Tartu Biomedical Building.
4.2        Several of the studies needed as a basis for each of the components and financed by
various agencies and bilateral donors, are completed or under way (for example, pre-investment
studies on health financing with EU-PHARE funds are to be completed by May 1995; a study on
cost-effectiveness of health promotion programs was finalized by negotiations. A draft version was
available by August 1994.  A study on restructuring the Health Protection Service, with
WHO/EURO and Japan's PHRD financing was completed in June, 1994). All reports and final
recommendations needed to start the project will be available by project launching. Sample bidding
documents for the main construction were reviewed at negotiations (para 2.22). The project phasing
over the four years has been planned taking into account implementation capacity and the average
time needed for the tasks proposed. For effective implementation in 1995, the Government was
requested to include project expenditures in the annual budget of the respective agencies, under their
investment and recurrent budgets. As a condition of loan effectiveness, evidence shall be provided
that the provision of EEK 4.5 million in the budget for 1995, combined with other sources of
flnancing. are adequate to fund the implementation of the project in that year. The annual report
prepared bv the PCU by November 30 of each year the proiect would include similar evidence of
adequate budget allocations for annual project implementation in the following year, as well as
contributions secured from other sources.



-31-
B. Project Management and Implementation
4.3         The make-up of PCU is presented in Section 11 as part of the project description. The
team consists of the Project Coordination Unit at MSA with professional staff for administration,
accounting and procurement, and the coordinators from the University of Tartu and the Central
Health Insurance Agency. The PCU would be responsible for technical and financial management
of the project and would contribute to strengthening MSA's capacity to coordinate other donors'
assistance in the health sector. The Unit would receive policy guidance and act as the secretariat
of a Health Reform Coordinating Committee chaired by the Minister of Social Affairs and
comprising a representative designated by the Rector of the University of Tartu and the Director of
the Central Health Insurance Agency. This committee will monitor the progress of health sector
reform. During the early phases of implementation, project management consultants will help MSA
adopt modern management tools such as project control using critical path analysis, monitoring
resource utilization, overseeing day-to-day operations, evaluating progress, resolving bottlenecks,
preparing periodic progress reports, and ensuring the timely execution of tasks. In addition, an
internationally recruited procurement consultant will provide advice and on-the-job training for a
local procurement specialist.
C. Project Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation
4.4         The project is expected to be implemented in four years, beginning in March, 1995,
with completion in January, 1999. The PCU would be responsible for monitoring project tasks as
defined in the project implementation plan (the plan defined at appraisal is presented in Annex 6).
Day-to-day planning and follow-up of activities will be an on-going function of the PCU and of each
implementing agency or department responsible for specific components. The PCU would also keep
track of key indicators to assess project progress and impact in relation to specific objectives (Annex
8 presents, in detail, indicators for each project component). Two types of indicators have been
defined: process indicators to measure progress in project implementation and impact indicators to
evaluate improvements in the health system and in the health status of the population. For example,
in the component on integration of primary health care and health protection, the impact of project
activities would be gauged by selecting tracer counties and determining through special inquiries
whether epidemiological profiles are being produced, family doctors are applying new protocols and
equipment and health protection agents have been retrained and are operating in accordance with
modified approaches. Regarding improvements in health conditions, there is provision in the Health
Promotion and Disease Prevention component for tracking indicators using data from existing
periodic National Health Behavior Studies, and national disease specific statistics and registers.
Table 4.1 presents some illustrative indicators that could be used in this project as a partial measure
of impact (only partial effects may be finally attributed to the project since other factors will affect
the indicators as well):



-32-
Table 4.1 Target Indicators for Health Promotion Programs in Estonia, 1992 - 1998
Indicators                 Year                      Targets
Prevalence of Daily Smokers            1992       Male 49%   Female 20%
1998             45%           19%
Passive Smoking                        1992       Male 81%   Female 50%
1998            50%           30%
Age-standard Ischemic Heart            1990       99 per 100,000
Disease Death Rate (0-64 Years)        1998       80 per 100,000
Abortion Rate                          1993       157.7 per 100 births
1998       125.0 per 100 births
Breast Feeding                         1992       27.3%
1998       50.0%
Male Mortality due to Injury           1992       117.2 per 100,000
1998       105.0 per 100,000
4.5        Other ways to evaluate project progress and impact on the health system will include
reviews of hospital accreditation and licensure of professionals, surveys on maintenance of
equipment, peer reviews of quality of public health and family medicine departments'studies and
programs, and evaluation of training courses.
4.6        Annual progress reports would be prepared for each of the components by the
respective implementing agencies or divisions and would be consolidated by the PCU into an annual
report highlighting problems encountered, achievements in relation to project implementation plan
and goals, the status of procurement and construction, technical assistance accomplishments,
expenditures by category (committed and made), disbursements and implementation plan for the
following year. The implementation plan would include, for Bank review, a list of the bidding
packages proposed for procurement and a list of the technical assistance to be obtained, by donor.
This report would be sent to the Bank each year, prior to arrival of a Bank review mission.
4.7        Mid-term Review. During negotiations it was agreed that a mid-term review, to be
conducted in November 1996. It would ensure that the direction and contents of the project continue
to respond to stated objectives.
D. Bank Supervision Strategy
4.8        This project would require 22 staff-weeks of supervision in the first, 18 in the third
and last years and 24 in the second year, to allow for mid-term review (a supervision plan is
included as Annex 11). Supervision missions would be semi-annual and the team would be a
combination of Bank staff and consultants with specialties in public health, health promotion,
medical education, management information and health care financing. Emphasis should be placed
on ensuring continuity of team leadership. One mission would be timed at November each year,



-33-
to review implementation accomplishments using as a basis the Government's annual progress report
(para 4.7) and plan for the next year's activities. Sufficient time should be allowed between this
annual review and the preparation of the Government budget, in order to ensure that project costs
and Government counterpart funds are included in the national budget. The other semi-annual
mission would focus on selected technical topics agreed in advance with the PCU, and it would be
staffed accordingly. Additional short supervisory visits by building engineers and architects would
be sent as required, during the design and construction phases of the Biomedical and Health Sciences
building in Tartu. Also, the Loan Department would occasionally send one staff member, as part
of a multi-country mission, to review a sample of statements of expenditures and to assist the PCU
with disbursement issues.



-34-
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.1          The project's support of key institutional health reforms, training of health personnel
in modern public health and medicine, and changes in financial management and evaluation would,
in the short-term, increase efficiency in the delivery of health services and contain costs. In the
medium- term, the emphasis on preventive measures and promotion of healthy lifestyles, added to
the improved quality of health personnel and clinical treatments, would lower adult mortality and
morbidity due to causes related to tobacco and alcohol consumption, unhealthy diets, injuries and
women's reproductive health problems.
5.2         Benefits.  Improvements in efficiency are likely to stem  from  two sources: (a)
technical, from improving the effectiveness of existing practices; and (b) allocative, from
reallocating resources and achieving more cost-effective health care. Technical efficiency gains
would derive from improving accounting, revenue collection and payment mechanisms; moreover,
unnecessary hospitals and beds would be eliminated and shorter lengths of stay would be achieved
and this would lead to decreases in staffing and maintenance costs. In addition, a system of family
doctors with a stronger referral system, particularly if doctor remuneration is based on capitation,
should reduce unneeded outpatient visits. These changes, together with a more effective payment
screening procedure, should reduce health cost inflationary pressures. However, there is a danger
that this could increase the number of referrals to higher levels of the health care system and this
should be addressed through audits of physician referral behavior. Improvements in medical
protocols for treatment of specific conditions would also increase the effectiveness of medical care
and it would release resources currently spent on ineffective procedures. The project places a major
emphasis on capacity building in medical training, both for managers and health professionals,
through technical assistance, visits to other countries and fellowships abroad. This investment
should result in stronger national medical and health training and the possibility of exporting this
training to other countries in the region. Allocative efficiency would be obtained by shifting
resources to more efficient uses. Current perverse incentives to keep hospital patients longer than
necessary and to over-prescribe will be reversed, due to changes to be introduced in payment
systems that are episode or group-related. Also, improved assessment of medical technology should
ensure that financial resources are applied to more efficient equipment, for example, such as that
used in less invasive day surgery.
5.3         There may be also several types of indirect impacts inside and outside the health
sector, on medical, social and financial costs. In the first instance, increased effectiveness and
emphasis on prevention in the health sector should decrease medical expenditures, reduce the
number of work-days lost due to disability, as well as add years of productive life, and raise
productivity. Also, less costly medical procedures and shorter hospitalizations would reduce the
costs born by the state and industry; this may be particularly important in a growing economy with
relatively scarce labor. Using the burden-of-disease approach recommended by the World Bank's
1993 World Development Report, Investing on Health, a cost-effectiveness study done during
project preparation suggests that the implementation of disease prevention programs could save in
Estonia over 29,000 disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) by the year 2004. The study analyzed
the potential cost-effectiveness of four preventive programs included in the project, against seven
selected problems: (a) abortion and abortion complications; (b) smoking; (c) chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease; (d) lung cancer; (e) upper digestive cancer; (f) cardiovascular conditions,
including myocardial infarction, instable angor and stable angor pectoris; and (g) traffic accidents.
The study estimated that a total amount of EEK328 million (around US$25 million) could be saved



-35-
between now and the year 2004, representing savings of EEK36 for each EEK invested on
prevention, at a cost of EEK314 per DALY.
5.4        As a third instance of indirect impact, Estonia's health reform could serve as a model
for other countries in similar circumstances. Both successes and failures could be applied as
references for reorganizing health systems in other NIS.
5.5         The main risks of this project are: (a) the difficulties involved in transforming a
curative health system into one more focused on disease prevention and health promotion; (b) the
complexities attached to restructuring institutions and strengthening the management of the health
insurance funds; (c) a new government may not be as commited as the current and the previous ones
to implement agreed reforms; and (d) the lack of experience of the Government in implementing
Bank financed projects. A positive factor that should reduce the risks is the Government's strong
commitment to the entire project which is considered a key instrument to support the ongoing health
reform. Moreover, design includes features to reduce risks, such as ensuring continued technical
guidance and training for strengthening organizations and management practices.



-36-
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1        The following conditions were obtained before negotiations:
(a)   present formal evidence that Ministry of Social Affairs (MSA) has officially
established the Health Reform Coordinating Committee and appointed procurement and
accounting specialists, as well as a financial component coordinator in Central Health
Insurance Agency (CHIA) (para 2.23), and a coordinator at the University of Tartu,
all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank (para 2.33);
(b)  sample bidding documents for the main construction acceptable to the Bank (para 2.22
and 4.2); and
(c)   evidence of inclusion EEK 4.5 million of project incremental expenditures in the 1995
Government budget (para. 4.2).
6.2        During  Negotiations, the following  assurances were obtained  from  the
Government:
(a)   by May 31, 1995 CHIA shall appoint consultants to review the results of the EU-
PHARE exercise in Parnu County and no later than July 31, 1995 it shall decide and
adopt financial management and accounting systems addressed to the local insurance
funds and providers, satisfactory to the Bank (para 2.25);;
(b)   by July 1, 1995 MSA shall furnish the Bank a program for health promotion and
disease prevention with operational rules, procedures, financing and selection criteria
satisfactory to the Bank (para 2.17);
(c)   by July 31, 1995 CHIA shall recruit a revenue collection specialist and a public
information expert, and by November 30, 1995 it shall submit to the Bank an action
plan for implementing recommendations on financial management and acconting
systems for local insurance funds and providers, improvement of revenue collection
and on a public information program for employees and enterprise owners (para 2.26);
(d)   by February 15, 1996 MSA shall submit to the Bank a report on the status of
development of the accreditation, licensure and quality assurance systems with
recommendations for nation-wide application (para 2.13).
(e)   by November 30 of each year, annual progress reports would be prepared for each of
the project components consolidated by the PCU into an annual report and an
implementation plan for the following year, including, for Bank review, a list of the
technical assistance to be obtained, by donor (para 4.6);
(f)   by November 30, 1996 a mid-term  review shall be carried out, jointly, by the
Borrower and the Bank, according to terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (para
4.7).



-37-
6.3        As conditions of loan effectiveness the Govermment would cause:
(a)   MSA to appoint the Director of the Policy and Economic Analysis Unit
(para. 2.6);
(b)   MSA and CHIA to reach a formal agreement acceptable to the Bank on the annual
transfer of an appropriate percentage of health insurance tax proceeds to MSA for
financing health pro'motion and disease prevention programs (para. 2.17);
c)    MSA to appoint a national working group and a coordinator for the hospital and health
facilities master plan and a committee on medical technologies, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank (para 2.11);
d)   The Borrower to provide evidence satisfactory to the Bank that provisions in the
budget for 1995, combined with other sources of financing, are adequate to fund the
contribution of the Borrower for the implementation of the Project in that year (para
4.2).
6.4        Recommendation. Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the project would
constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$18 million equivalent to the Republic of Estonia
for the term of 15 years including a grace period of 5 years, at the Bank standard variable interest
rate.






ESTONIA HEALTH PROJECT
ANNEXES






-38-                               ANNEX 1
ESTONIA HEALTH PROJECT
HEALTH CONDITIONS, HEALTH CARE SYSTEM AND REFORM
A. DEMOGRAPHIC SITUATION AND HEALTH STATUS.
1.           Demographic Data. In recent years, increased mortality, declining birth rates, and migra-
tion have contributed to the negative population growth. The population of Estonia dropped from 1,572
million in 1990 to 1,506 million in 1993; from 1992-1993 population fell 1.32%. The crude birth-rate
(live births per 1,000 population) has declined from 14.1 in 1990 to 10. 1 in 1993, at the same time as
the standardised death rate has increased from 12.3 in 1990 to 13.0 in 1993. The population has been
aging slightly: the proportion of elderly (men over 60, and women over 55 years of age) has increased
from 19.3% in 1980 to 20.5% in 1991.
2.           The urban areas hold 71.6% of the population; the overall average density of population
is 34.8 persons per square km. Tallinn, the capital, has 473,432 inhabitants. Based on 1993 data, other
major cities contain the following: 109,133 in Tartu; 84, 377 in Narva; 70,849 in Kohtla-Jarve.
3.           Estonians belong to the Baltic-Finnish group of the Finno-Ugric peoples.  Due to
immigration, the ethnic composition of the population changed significantly after World War II. Estonians
now make up 61 % of the population; minorities and other ethnic groups defined by the Government
include Russians (30%), Ukrainians (3%), Byelorussians (2%) and others (2%). The non-Estonian
population is dominant in the northeastern industrial regions.
4.           Health Status. The health of adult Estonians is poor: Basic health indicators show a
significant gap between Estonia and Western European countries in the same climatic and geographical
area. However, the trends are similar to those in the other formerly socialist economies of northern
Europe (Latvia, Lithuania, Russia and Poland).
5.           In 1990, average life expectancy at birth was 64.7 years for men and 75 for women in
1990 (Table I)--the average being 4.9 years below the European average (WHO/Euro) and 6.4 years
below that of OECD (Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development) countries. Further, the
gap widened over the last three decades. Life expectancy at age 30 improved only 3.4 years for women
but declined 0.5 years for men. The same indicator in several OECD countries showed improvements
for both sexes: Life expectancy at age 30 improved 1.4 and 3.7 years for men and women, respectively
in Norway; 1.9 and 4.6 in the Netherlands; 3.0 and 5.3 in Sweden; 5.3 and 6.3 in Finland; and 6.2 and
9.7 in Portugal. About 80% of the present gap is caused by a higher mortality in the cohorts of under
65 years of age.
6.           Overall mortality has risen over the last three decades. While deaths from communicable
diseases declined consistently (those from respiratory diseases dropped by 45%, and mortality from
infectious diseases is one-tenth the initial figure), this success was offset by failures in other areas.
Noncommunicable diseases account for about 85% of total mortality and 55% of disability (Figure 1).
7.           In 1990, age-standardized death rates for males due to cardiovascular diseases (CVD) in
Estonia were 72% higher than in Finland, 82% higher than in Germany and 100% higher than in



-39-                                  ANNEX 1
Sweden; rates for accidents, injuries and poisoning were 60%, 50% and 100% higher than in Finland,
Germany and Sweden, respectively.
8.            The main causes of death in 1992 were CVD, which comprised 57.8%  of all cases,
tumors (16.7%), and injuries, poisonings and suicides (11.7%) (Table II). The incidence of CVD was
14.2 per 1,000 population in 1988 and 14.3 in 1990. In 1990, there were 12,574 CVD cases per
100,000 population registered at health care institutions. CVD mortality is very high, particularly due
to ischemic heart disease for the 0-64 age group. Further, standardized death rates are nearly twice as
high as the Western European average for the age group below 65 for ischemic heart disease. CVD
mortality showed a slight decrease from 752.3 per 100,000 population in 1988 to 722.8 in 1989, but it
increased again to 752.5 in 1992. The same indicator in 1991 was 461.4 in Denmark and 460.1 in
Sweden. The situation in Estonia today is similar to that in the North Karelia region in Finland two
decades ago.
9.            There has been an alarming increase in the number of injuries and poisoning (including
suicides), especially among men. There were 2,350 accidental deaths in Estonia in 1992 (2,210 deaths
in 1991). The male death rates from accidents, injuries and poisoning were 60% higher than in Finland,
49% higher than in Germany and twice as high as in Sweden. The suicide mortality rate is twice the
European average (Table III).
10.          Infant mortality declined from 31.1 (1960) to 15.2 per 1,000 live-births (1993); but,
despite the relative improvement, it is still 30% higher than in the western European countries. The
lowest level in infant mortality, 12.4, was recorded in 1990; the increase is partly due to the adoption
of WHO's statistical recording standards in 1992.
11.           Maternal mortality fell from  36.5 (1970) to 30.6 (1992) per 100,000 live-births.
However, maternal mortality increased from 1980-91, and achieved the 1980 level again only in 1992.
The current mortality rate is still two times the WHO "Health for All" target of 15 per 100,000 live-
births. Abortion is still the main birth control method (Table V). In 1992, there were 28,403 abortions
performed, for a ratio of 157.7 per 100 live births. By comparison, the average for the Nordic countries
was about 20 per 100 live births in 1993. Prevalence of breast-feeding is low: 27.3 % of babies are being
breast-fed up to four months, and 14.9% up to six months (1992).
12.           Nevertheless, the country has made important progress in maternal and child health care.
The level of coverage and access to maternal and child health services is high: The number of visits by
pregnant women is high (about 12 each until 1991, and 10.5 in 1992). Almost 100% of deliveries occur
in hospitals. The percentage of caesarean section deliveries (5%-8%) and of forceps deliveries is low.
During 1992, several delivery departments switched to family delivery and to baby-friendly maternities.
13.           Adult morbidity equalled 981.6 illness episodes per 1,000 adults in 1990. Respiratory
and cardio-vascular diseases represented 28.1 % and 14.3 % of overall adult morbidity. Others included
injuries and poisonings (9.9%), nervous system (8.1%), musculo-skeletal system (8.6%), and digestive
system (4.3%) diseases.



-40-                                  ANNEX 1
14.           Respiratory diseases are the most numerous (61.3 %) with regard to childhood morbidity.
Others include disorders of the nervous system (9.3%), digestive system (5.2%), injuries and poisonings
(4.8%), and skin and subcutaneous tissue diseases (4.0%). Immunization coverage varies between 70%-
80% (see Table V).
B. HEALTH DETERMINANTS.
15.           The causes of the gap between the former socialist economies (including Estonia) and
the western European countries are estimated by one study as the following: 30% due to differences in
wealth and associated socio-economic factors; 50% due to life-style risk factors; 5% to environmental
pollution; and, 15% to deficiencies in curative health care services'.
16.           Another study listed a set of risk factors that contributed to the levels and specific trends
of adult mortality. These include: (a) alcohol, (b) smoking, (c) cohort effect, (d) diet, (e) pollution, (f)
occupational exposures, (g) the health system and (h) the totalitarian system. Researchers concluded that
37% of the excess deaths are possibly associated with smoking, alcohol is at least related to acute
intoxication and associated risk of injury, poisoning or suicide, and dietary practices could explain some
of the CVD. They also concluded that the causes of the excess mortality rates are likely multifactorial.
17.          Individual Risk Factors. Smoking is a major problem. In 1992, 49% of males and
19.7% of females smoked daily (a 5% increase from 1990) (Table IV). Studies suggest that smokers
have 70% higher coronary disease death rates than non-smokers, and two-four times as great an incidence
of coronary disease. The lung cancer rate, at 26.54 per 10,000 in 1991, is high and rising. Also, it is
estimated that 27% of men and 15% of women are exposed to passive smoking at work-sites, public
facilities and home.
18.           Diet is also an important risk factor for CVD in Estonia: More than 1/3 of all food energy
is in the form of saturated fat. The salt intake is high (15-20 g/day), while consumption of fibre and
vitamins is low.
19.           Alcohol consumption was 7.8 liter per capita in 1991. Alcohol intoxication deaths have
dramatically increased since 1988. Also, epidemiological research indicates that 2% of the population
have alcohol-related mental health problems. In 1992, there were 1,849 accidental deaths, 227 of which
were traffic accidents, and 80 deaths occurred at work-sites. There were 489 suicides in 1992 compared
to 388 in 1988 (Table VI).
20.           AIDS and Sexually Transmitted Diseases. Sexually transmitted diseases (STD) are on
the rise: The incidence of syphilis rose from 3.6 per 100,000 population in 1989 to 11.4 in 1992. For
gonorrhoea the figures were 127.9 and 180.7, respectively. However, the AIDS situation is better than
1/    A. S. Preker and R. Feachem, 'Searching for the Silver Bullet: Market Mechanisms in the Health
Sector in Central and Eastern Europe," presented during the Conference on Health Care Reform
Strategies in Central Europe, Prague, November 10-12, 1993.
2/     C.G.L. Murray and J.L Bobadilla, "Epidemiological Transitions in the Former Socialist Economies:
Divergent Patterns of Mortality and Causes of Death," (Draft), 1994.



-41-                                  ANNEX 1
in most western European countries. By January 1993, altogether 34 HIV positive persons had been
identified (29 of whom are residing in Estonia today), and two deaths had been attributed to AIDS-related
diseases.
21.           Environmental health. Well-researched data about the relationship between health and
environmental conditions are relatively scarce in Estonia. Regional differences in respiratory diseases,
CVD, pregnancy related anaemia and premature births, and some cancers suggest the high level of
pollution in the northeast is causing increased morbidity and mortality. Drinking water and air pollution
are serious problems: In 1990, about 14% of water samples did not meet national standards. The
estimated annual emission from stationary sources is 600,000 tons of air pollutants. Exhaust gases
contribute an additional 500,000 tons of yearly air pollutants. Moreover, the Health Protection Service
estimates 90,000 workers are exposed to health risks, ranging from radiation to carbon monoxide. Houses
in Kohtla-Jarve and Narva are mostly located in areas affected by industrial air pollution. Housing
(which is usually low-cost) is generally of low quality. In winter, houses with central heating are now
colder than in the past, as heating costs have jumped 8-10 times.
22.           Socio-economic conditions. The transformation of the economy is proving to be a
hardship for many: For example, in 1992, 50% of those surveyed reported being more depressed than
before. Income distribution is uneven, with the elderly and families with children the most vulnerable
groups of the society. In the first quarter of 1994 the official cost of minimum food basket was estimated
at 298 EEK per family member per month, and the minimum expenses on other essential consumption
were estimated at 204.5 EEK per family member per month. The distribution of income per family
member for the same period is presented in Figure 2. According to these data about 1/3 of the population
is living under the subsistence income level.
23.           In conclusion, it is likely that thousands of premature deaths and disability occur due to
the interaction of multiple unfavourable factors. Health has been given low priority in the country's
economic and social policies, as it is not considered a value either on the individual or societal level.
However, poor health and high mortality of working-age people are an economic burden due to lost
productivity, lost investment in human capital, and medical expenditures that decrease the country's
economic competitiveness.
C. HEALTH CARE SYSTEM.
24.           Health Services. The health care system inherited the former Soviet health care model
with its excess institutional capacity, distorted human resources, curative-care specialized services,
redundant public health services, and ineffective management practices.
25.           Public Health Services. The public health service network, or Health Protection Services
(HPS), is still strongly influenced by the former Soviet model of sanitary and epidemiological control.
The model was structured vertically and concentrated almost exclusively on environmental problems and
infectious diseases. Moreover, uniform procedural rules for the whole Soviet Union did little to address
varying public health needs. Estonian epidemiologic profile (prevalence of non-communicable diseases)
requires the inclusion of modern public health approach to the public health services. To be effective,
this vertically organized network of health protection services needs to be integrated into a modern and
decentralized health care administration.



-42-                                    ANNEX 1
26.            The HPS reports to the Vice-Chancellor of the Ministry of Social Affairs (MSA) (Figure
3). The structure and functions of the Health Protection Center and its 25 county and town health
protection offices generally follow the pattern of the former sanitary-epidemiological service. However,
the number of full-time positions has been gradually reduced to 767 from 890 in 1992, which includes
the number of health protection doctors (from 238 to 210). The HPS has mainly dealt with traditional
environmental health fields such as food hygiene, occupational health, communal hygiene (water, soil,
and air quality and noise), and institutional hygiene. Epidemiologists typically deal with communicable
diseases. Microbiologists are responsible for laboratory tests, and more sophisticated analyses are
performed in a few regional laboratories. The Health Protection Center in Tallinn operates the central
bacteriological and chemical laboratories, serving as a referral center for the lower levels (to perform
quality control with inter-calibration exercises) and offering postgraduate training for laboratory
technicians and doctors. Reorganizing the HPS into a modern public health service will require
substantial investment in human resource development and structural adjustment.
27.            Primary Health Care. Although 371 outpatient care units operated in 1990, primary care
has not been clearly developed, and has remained largely undifferentiated from secondary care. Most
ambulatory care is provided through polyclinics and occupational health units in factories. Patients could
not exercise choice and they were assigned to a physician according to their place of residence or work.
The lack of proper equipment, and lack of incentives to deal with health problems in outpatient settings
favoured quick referrals to specialist services in the hospitals In fact, emergency services are often used
as primary care services: An estimated 70% of individuals taken to medical facilities by ambulance are
treated as outpatients; however, this is an expensive way to provide the service. Rural ambulatory care
units typically include a pediatrician, midwife, dentist and perhaps a pharmacist. The health services
utilisation patterns indicate that there are differences with regard to access between urban and rural areas.
In 1992 there were 5.6 outpatient visits per capita in urban, and 3.2 visits per capita in rural areas. The
data about the utilisation of ambulatory services are presented in Table VIII).
28.            Hospital Sector. The hospital sector is characterized by excess bed capacity, inefficient
case management, an expensive referral system, and adverse incentives. There seems to be little concern
for cost-effective decision-making.
29.            A comparison of Estonia's hospital bed supply with that of the industrial OECD countries,
or with its neighbouring Nordic countries, shows a substantially greater capacity than expected for a
population of 1.5 million people. Under the input-orientated and centrally planned Soviet system,
Estonia's hospital network evolved to include 127 hospitals and approximately 16,000 beds. The result--
11 beds per 1,000--was substantially more than three of the five Nordic countries.  For example, in
1990, Norway, Denmark, and Sweden had 4.7, 5.7, and 6.1 beds per 1,000 respectively3; moreover,
even with this limited bed capacity, occupancy rates for all were below 85%, compared to the 1992
average occupancy rate of 76.5% for Estonia. While historical differences may explain the disparity,
achieving a similar level in Estonia would mean reducing capacity to 6,800-8,900 beds.
30.            The hospital network consists of regionally-based tertiary care institutions, county-based
secondary care services, and local primary and social care services.  Fifteen hospitals specialize
exclusively in psychiatry, infectious diseases or tuberculosis, and are regionally-based so as to serve large
geographic areas (e.g. psychiatric hospitals are located in Tallinn, Kohtla-Jarve, Tartu, Saare, Valga and
3/     Yearbook of Nordic Statistics, 1992.



-43-                                   ANNEX 1
Viljandi). Tertiary care centers, serving the northern and southern sectors of the country respectively,
are located in Tallinn and Tartu (e.g. hospitals specializing in dermatology, pulmonary disease, cancer,
etc.). Other highly specialized tertiary hospitals (e.g. trauma and burn centers) provide complementary
services. A typical county-based network consists of one secondary hospital offering a mixture of acute
and ambulatory care services, and a variable number of village hospitals, of more limited capacity,
dispersed throughout the county. While the levels of service are not directly comparable in all instances
to the clusters by bed complement described in Table X, county hospitals generally have 100-300 beds,
whereas village hospitals have less than 100 beds, with most having less than 50. Many of these village
facilities function as observation or stabilization units in lieu of home-care services, which are
unavailable; and, during the winter, they also serve as shelters or social care homes, especially for the
elderly who may live alone and on limited pensions.
31.           Most tertiary care hospitals have more than 300 beds. The bi-polar tertiary hospitals in
Tartu and Tallinn are the largest, containing 932 and 1,281 beds, respectively. The fact that more than
10% of all hospitals are for tertiary care is particularly noteworthy since such facilities generally imply
a concentration of highly specialized professional staff using proportionately more expensive technologies
and treatments.
32.           Following the 1990 decree requiring the licensing of all health care facilities, the Ministry
of Social Affairs began to assess bed needs. As a result, almost 4,000 beds were eliminated from 1991
through the first three quarters of 1993. In addition, during 1992, the MSA revoked the licenses of 18
hospitals, 12 of which had less than 25 beds, and two of which had 100 or more, which eliminated
another 684 beds. Further, hospitals were closed in nine of the country's 15 counties. Only the city of
Tallinn had more than two hospitals closed, while one was closed in each of four counties. Of the six
where no hospitals were closed, two were in the south (P6lvamaa and V6rumaa), two were the island
counties (Hiiumaa and Saaremaa), along with Raplamaa, in the west, and Laane-Virumaa, in the
northeast.
33.           Public ownership, central management, and lack of incentives have not encouraged
efficiency. In 1992, the average inpatient stay was 16.2 days; the average occupancy rate was 76.6%,
the respective figures for 1991 were 17.1 and 73.8% (Table IX). However, hospital utilization patterns
have been very uneven: Some tertiary and secondary care hospitals are overcrowded, and badly need
repair and renovation, while other facilities, mainly the recently built secondary level hospitals, have
occupancy rates less than 60%. It is common to see over-bedding of rooms (with implications for the
spread of nosocomial and cross-infections), as well as poor hospital design and space management (large
unused spaces, traffic flows).
34.           Facilities and Eguipment.  A recent study showed that health facilities and equipment
are in such poor condition that it has affected the quality of health care. Hospital facilities were poorly
designed, which led to inefficient maintenance, heating, lighting and cleaning and safety problems. Very
little attention has been given to traffic flow and service, and patient areas are often placed where there
is available space, without regard to functions and needs. Heating costs represent 25%-30% of hospitals'
recurrent costs; this disproportionate burden is the result of inefficient construction and the lack of heat
meters to measure consumption.
35.           Estonia inherited a relatively low-tech health care system. For example, at the time
independence was restored in 1991, it had only one functional CT-scanner. Since then, however, as



-44-                                  ANNEX 1
regulations were relaxed and alternative financing sources became available, health institutions have
acquired expensive medical technology, generally without properly evaluating the cost-effectiveness,
marginal benefits, recurring cost implications or maintenance needs of the equipment. The examples
include extra-corporeal lithotripsy, several CT-scanners, and magnetic resonance imaging equipment
(MRIs). Thus, technology assessment methodologies and medical equipment support systems are needed
to guarantee the overall quality of care and patient satisfaction.
36.           Accreditation Procedures and Quality Assurance (OA). QA tools and systems are needed
to improve overall quality and efficiency in the delivery of health care. Indeed, in a decentralized health
system with a mix of public and private service providers, the Government, in cooperation with
professional associations and other non-governmental organizations, will need to develop a strong capacity
for regulatory and evaluation functions including quality assurance in hospitals, accreditation of health
facilities and licensure of medical and other health personnel. Procedures including infection control,
medical audits, utilization reviews, second opinions and routine autopsies should be part of the QA
system. At present, these systems are weak or non-existent. In addition to recent revisions in the use
and capacity of hospitals and other health facilities, a new and more comprehensive reassessment of
hospital bed needs should be conducted and new standards in building design, construction and quality
control of health facilities and equipment, as well as for energy efficiency and safety, should be
established.
37.          The Pharmaceutical Subsector. In the Former Soviet Union (FSU), the pharmaceutical
supplier was a state monopoly, and no private initiative was allowed. In spite of large numbers of
pharmaceutical production units, more than 50% of the supply was imported, mostly from former Eastern
Block countries like Hungary, Poland, GDR, Bulgaria and Yugoslavia; also, some Western companies
were in the market. The relatively large share of imports was due to the country's out-of-date drug
technology and know-how: For example, not one production unit in the country met the Good
Manufacturing Practice (GMP) requirements.
38.           The Estonian Center on Medicines (ECM), a drug regulatory authority, was created at
the then Ministry of Health in May 1991 (before independence was officially restored and recognized)
and later converted into the State Agency of Medicines (SAM). The initiative was supported by the
Nordic Council on Medicines (NLN), an umbrella organization for the Nordic national regulatory
authorities. Through NLN, an educational project supported by the Nordic Council of Ministers, was
launched to educate ECM staff. The Center has two departments: registration and information in Tartu,
and quality control and inspection, with labs in Tartu and Tallinn. The latest models of computer-guided
technology for dissolution, spectrophotometry, viscosimetry and polarimetry are routinely used for quality
control and registration support.
39.           All pharmaceutical activities are licensed by a national board, in the MSA. Registration
applications are directly submitted to the SAM and final decisions are made by the Minister. SAM duties
include (a) registering pharmaceuticals; (b) performing quality and safety control; (c) conducting clinical
trials; (d) inspecting manufacturers, wholesalers and pharmacies; (e) controlling narcotic drugs according
to international conventions; (f) issuing import and export licenses for all pharmaceuticals; (g) approving
labels of pharmaceuticals and semi-medicinal products manufactured in Estonia; (h) monitoring side
effects; and, (i) providing drug information for health professionals.



-45-                                 ANNEX 1
40.           Before independence, there was only one pharmaceutical manufacturer in the country (the
state-owned Tallinn Chemical Pharmaceutical Plant), that produced ointments, tablets and ampoules. The
quality of the products was relatively low and, according to GMP standards, the plant should have not
been operating. However, it still provides several cheap drugs for the local market, and has started
necessary restructuring to meet GMP standards. Most of its products are still exported to other FSU
countries. As a first step towards privatization, a state-owned shareholder company was formed to run
the factory (it was able to sell 49% of shares). Negotiations with potential foreign investors are under
way, and it is hoped the foreign investment will mean improve the quality of the products. Also, since
1992, three new production units meeting the GMP standards have been set up in Estonia: (a) Nycomed
SEFA, a subsidiary of the Nycomed Hafslund Group, Denmark, is located in Polva, in the southern part
of Estonia; (b) AS GEA Eesti, another Danish-Estonian venture, is a very small tablet producing unit near
Tallinn; (c) a modern model packaging plant for tablets that was given as a gift from Sweden to the state
enterprise, Vagos. This has allowed the country to import active substances in bulk that can then be
packed according to GMP guidelines, and thus supply the Estonian market with more than 100 essential
drugs at lower cost. All production units in Estonia are regularly inspected by GMP inspectors of the
SAM. The inspectors were recently qualified in Sweden and acquired the necessary field experience.
Estonia intends to join the international Pharmaceutical Inspection Convention (PIC) as soon as possible.
41.           Human Resources.  In the last two years, the number of physicians per 10,000
population declined from 42 to 34, mainly through natural attrition, repatriation and emigration. This
ratio is still high compared with other developed countries, for example, 22 in Sweden and Norway, and
15 in UK. Looming unemployment and underemployment encourages unnecessary appointments,
treatments, and prolonged hospital stays. In an attempt to address the manpower surplus, the University
of Tartu has reduced annual admissions to the Faculty of Medicine from 200 to 90. However, the impact
of reduced training capacity will have only medium-and long-term effects.
42.           Government policy now supports the need to change the structure of the medical
profession through retraining programmes. The emphasis is put on general practice and on balanced,
need-based and quality-assured specialty training. The excess supply of obstetrician-gynecologists (OB-
GYN), internists, pediatricians, neurologists, anesthesiologists and clinical pathologists will have to be
retrained as general practitioners (GPs), as well as specialists in areas not sufficiently covered now, such
as neo-natologists, cardiologists, gastroenterologists and nephrologists. A curriculum has been developed
at the University of Tartu to retrain doctors into GPs which includes public health and environmental
health, and it updates the training in pediatrics and women's health. Also, it focuses on preventive
measures and treatment of the most common adult chronic diseases. GPs are expected to become the
backbone of the country's primary health care system. To date 65 GPs have been trained; overall, the
country needs about 750.
43.           Most of the physicians work in public hospitals and polyclinics, and about 50 are in
private practice; however, the trend toward private practice may be limited by the low number of people
who are potentially able to afford private health insurance. Nevertheless, in order to promote efficiency
and quality through competition, private practice should be encouraged. Other members of the health
team--including nurses, health insurance managers, hospital administrators, planners and policy analysts--
are essential for a well-balanced health system. The country's requirement for these professionals needs
to be analyzed; it will also be necessary to revise their respective functions and standards in order to
develop appropriate curricula for retraining.



-46-                                  ANNEX 1
44.           The nurse/physician ratio is 2.0 with obvious implications on the quality of nursing.
Nurses' low social prestige and quality of training add to the problems. However, standards could be
raised, the training curriculum improved, the admission age and basic education requirements for
applicants raised, and the social status of the profession promoted.
45.           A particular feature of Estonian medical training is that all physicians and higher level
nurses are trained in a single institution--the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Tartu. Thus, any
changes to this institution would affect these health professionals. As much of the preclinical training is
done in facilities that date back to the beginning of 19th century, the Government has made upgrading
the teaching facilities a priority issue--which should improve the training.
46.           Financing the Health Care Sector. The health care system is moving from a centralized
system of financing and administration to a decentralized one. This is being done by: (a) transferring
the financing responsibilities from the central government to a health insurance scheme, managed at the
county level; and (b) delegating most health administration tasks to county-based health authorities, health
insurance agencies and health care services, hospitals and polyclinics.
47.           Estonia spent about 4.3% of its GNP on health care in 1993. About 82% of total health
care expenditure (HCE) came from payroll taxes, 9% were from the Government budget, and the rest
were out-of-pocket payments for drugs and fees. Given the constraints imposed by society's economic
restructuring, currently the financial resources available for day-to-day running of health care services
are about 45 EEK/month/per capita.
48.           The financing reform was initiated by the 1991 Mandatory Health Insurance Act (MHIA).
The law and its amendments from 1994 charge the Central Insurance Agency to collect a 13% payroll
tax from employers, and allocate the resources on per capita basis among regional insurance funds that,
in turn, purchase health care services for their populations from providers. MHIA has effectively
established a split between providers and purchasers--a prerequisite for a competitive environment.
49.           The Estonian population of 1.5 million is served by 22 insurance funds; on average, each
sickness fund covers 70,000 people. However, since Tallinn's 473,000 inhabitants are covered by one
insurance fund, the average population for others drops to 49,000. Thus, authorities should determine
what level of services a sickness fund could support without the need to pool resources and risks.
Oncology, end-stage renal disease, critical coronary care, accidents with catastrophic health consequences
are a few examples of risk pooling needs. The administrative efficiency of managing small insurance
funds needs also to be assessed.
50.           The tax base is constrained because after the collective farms were dissolved and
favourable privatization policies were introduced, the number who were self-employed in agricultural and
small-businesses has increased significantly. And, the income of the self-employed is difficult to assess
because: (a) they tend to vary depending on the amount of work available, or in the case of agriculture,
on crop yields, prices of produce etc.; (b) personal and business income can be confused; (c) they have
strong incentives to understate their incomes because these are taxed; (d) agricultural incomes tend to be
distributed unevenly over the year. The methodology has to be developed for the basis of tax collection
from self-employed to ensure that everybody contributes a fair share towards health insurance.



-47-                                  ANNEX 1
51.           The system can be exploited by "free riders" for two reasons: (a) the state and local
authorities lack the control mechanisms to make all employers and self-employed actually pay the tax;
(b) the state has failed to provide incentives for people to contribute to the insurance fund because they
are not asked for proof that they contributed when they obtain health care. The enforcement mechanisms
and/or incentives have to be developed to achieve high compliance rates.
52.           The reimbursement system for health services has been controversial and carries some
inherent and serious weaknesses. Providers are reimbursed according to a government-set per diem and
item-of-service fee schedule. The purchaser-provider relationship is determined by annual contracts which
specify the range of services to be reimbursed, and give some broad quality guidelines.
53.           The system has effectively been left open-ended, the only cost containment measure being
the government-set universal fee schedule. But, fees do not reflect the real costs of services. Although
some progress has been made in setting more realistic fees, the implementation of the schedule is being
hindered by the insufficient resources to cover the current volume of services based on new fee-schedule.
Cost-accounting methods will have to be introduced to enable the determination of the real costs of
service together with cost-containment measures to control the volume and cost-inflation.
54.           The system of financing providers offers adverse incentives with regard to efficient patient
management: Open-ended contracts do not impose any constraints on volume of services for providers,
and make it difficult to plan the use of limited resources. Thus, there are many unnecessary procedures
and long stays.
55.           Further development of the financial reforms is being hindered by a lack of expertise for
overall planning, system design, actuarial analysis and contracting practices, hospital management, and
by insufficient information collection and processing capacity.
D. HEALTH SECTOR REFORM.
56.           The health system disparities are being addressed through health care reform that aim to:
(a) reorient the system by focusing on primary care, and by introducing health promotion and disease
prevention programmes; (b) improving human resources; and (3) completing the ongoing changes to the
system's financing and organization. Government objectives include: (a) creating a new structure for
public health in administration and in academic institutions; (b) creating a new health code; (c) creating
a health insurance system; (d) re-structuring educational programs; (e) allowing individuals to choose
physicians; (f) introducing a county health administration; (g) creating family doctors; and (h) establishing
3-4 focal points and resource centers for public health and health promotion.
57.           Accomplishments in structural changes and developing human resources include: (a) all
parallel health systems were integrated into the public health care network; (b) health insurance was
introduced; (c) hospital beds were reduced by 20% in less than two years; (d) the Ministry of Health has
been merged with the Ministry of Social Affairs with the organisation of the Ministry showing the new
priorities set for the health system (Figure 3) (Department of Public Health, Licenses and Standards,
Central Health insurance Agency); (e) at the Tartu University Medical School enrollment was reduced
from 200 per year to 90; the first groups of family doctors were recently trained, a nursing school for
advanced degrees was created, and the Department of Public Health was established.



-48-                                  ANNEX 1
58.           Legislation. The 1994 Health Services Organisation Act (HSOA) regulates the
organization and ownership of the health care services.  HSOA delegates a substantive share of
administrative functions and ownership to the counties. Municipalities and counties organize primary
care, outpatient specialist services and wide range of secondary inpatient care. Also, it stresses the
importance of county doctors as general coordinators of preventive and curative care (they will become
the major administrators who will merge most of the former Health Protection Service functions with the
care provided by polyclinics and hospitals). The County Doctors' need for institutional support and for
updating their knowledge and capabilities will shape the training needs (Figure 4).
59.           The Health Insurance Act was amended in April 1994 so as to introduce measures to
counter provider-induced demand for hospital care and to regulate investments into modern and expensive
medical technology. The new law creates the conditions for implementing three suggestions made by Bank
missions during project preparation: (a) Creating the Central Health Insurance Fund to collect centrally
the payroll tax and redistribute the revenues on a per capita basis; (b) a small fraction (around 0.5%) of
the collected amounts should be used to finance health promotion activities; and (c) more accurate
information about expenditures should be obtained on which to base cost-control measures and to
determine caps for high-cost procedures (Figure 4).
60.           Other legislative initiatives. The Department of Public Health is participating in drafting
of a consumer protection act, tobacco act, food products act, health protection act, health care
organisation at the work-place act, alcohol act, mental health act, communicable diseases act, and a health
care services organisation act. A child protection act was approved by parliament that provides an
incentive structure for pregnant women to use preventive maternity and child services.
61.           Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Programmes. Estonia has joined the
WHO/EURO-sponsored Countrywide Integrated Noncommunicable Diseases Intervention (CINDI)
Programme. The DPH is currently working on national programs on man's heart, mental health,
traumatism and accidents, healthy schools, AIDS and family planning. The first anti-smoking clinic
opened in Tallinn. Cost-sharing has been introduced for abortions where women wishing to terminate
their pregnancies have to pay a fixed sum of 150 EEK [about a third of the cost] for the procedure. The
proceeds are intended to be used to provide free contraceptives.
62.           Problems still to be resolved. It is unlikely the system will get more resources in the near-
to-medium term. Thus, existing resources must be managed efficiently. Some success was achieved
when serious inefficiencies in the health system infrastructure (such as too many beds, lack of modern
equipment, inefficient buildings, and weak overall maintenance systems) were addressed: The number
of beds was reduced from 12.1 to 9.5 per 1,000 in 1993, the average length of stay (ALOS) was reduced
from 17.5 in 1990, to 16.1 in 1992.
63.           Further reductions are needed to increase efficiency even more and reduce costs (in the
US, the ALOS is 4 and in Denmark 9). Similarly, lowering the number of beds to 7 per 1,000 would be
a good target. However, these steps can only be taken if excess hospital beds are converted into lower
cost shelters. At present, most of the elderly and chronic patients cannot be discharged early to their
homes because of poor heating and inadequate living standards. When conditions improve, it should be
possible to lower hospital occupancy rates, vacate some of the most seriously impaired buildings, and
consolidate staff and equipment in the facilities that are in good states of repair, thus attaining a high level
of utilization per square meter, and substantially reducing energy costs.



-49-                                    ANNEX  1
64.            Various efforts are required, such as modern techniques for planning, programming,
designing, constructing and equipping facilities. Initially external expertise will be essential, to introduce
them, but the know-how should be transferred to local professionals. Also, the lack of suitable standards
for the planning, construction, safety and quality control of health facilities and medical equipment
severely hinders urgently needed rehabilitation and repairs. Thus, developing these standards should be
given a high priority. Further, a country-wide assessment of hospital beds that considers the proportion
of acute and chronic patients must be made, as well as the elderly without proper shelter in the winter.
Moreover, before any further investments are made to construct health facilities, designs should be
carefully evaluated and revised, and unfinished buildings such as the Valga and Parnu hospitals should
be redesigned for energy efficiency, traffic flow and need-adjusted capacity.
65.            Improvements and modifications for the insurance system are critically needed to: (a)
guarantee financial sustainability; (b) provide universal coverage of some kind of basic benefits package;
(c) improve administrative, technical and allocative efficiency, including cost-control; (d) ensure
accountability to the contributors and beneficiaries; and (e) promote equity in the distribution of
resources.
66.            Efficient incentive structure could be introduced into the new health financing scheme in
several ways. First, primary care providers (or family physicians in group practices) could be given
incentives to reduce hospital care in favor of outpatient care drawing on experience of budget holding GPs
in UK. Alternatively, the health insurance funds could be responsible for purchasing health care services
from the lowest cost provider; they would work closely with county health administrators. Third, the
present scheme could be developed further, whereby the health insurance controls prices through the
points system, by providing incentives to limit and control the number and length of health treatments.
This last option, however, still risks increasing the medicalization of the system and of paying less than
needed attention to primary care needs.
67.            The allocation of resources among regions is done on a per capita basis. However, the
formula does not consider different needs of different age groups, gender, and cost implications of urban
or rural populations, thus raising equity concerns. To develop a more equitable allocation formula,
authorities will need more epidemiologic information and a demographic profile of population.



-50-                                 ANNEX 1
TABLES AND FIGURES
TABLE I    Trends in life expectancy at birth, by gender.
TABLE II    Main causes of death 1988-1993.
TABLE III   Mortality from injuries and poisonings (including suicides) per 100,000 population in
1988- 1992.
TABLE IV    Smoking and alcohol intake in 1990, several countries.
TABLE V    Abortions and contraception 1991-1992.
TABLE VI   Discharges by groups of disease, 1992.
TABLE VII  External causes of deaths per 100,000 population.
TABLE VIII Indicators of ambulatory care utilisation in 1988-1992 per inhabitant.
TABLE IX    Health services utilisation data, comparative, 1990, 1992.
TABLE X    Number of hospital facilities clustered according to the size of bed complement.
TABLE XI   Geographical distribution of selected health care resources in 1992.
FIGURE 1   Mortality trends over time.
FIGURE 2   The income distribution per family member in month grouped in deciles of the population.
FIGURE 3   Organisation chart of the Ministry of Social Affairs.
FIGURE 4   The administrative organisation and financial flows in Estonia health care system.



-51-                               ANNEX 1
TABLE I    Trends in life expectancy at birth, by gender. Source: Estonia Medical Statistics
Bureau, 1994.
Year             1959       1970       1979          1986         1989       1990
Male             64.3       65.3       64.2          65.5         66.2       64.7
Female           71.6       74.4       74.4          74.9         75.0       75.0
TABLE II   Main causes of death 1988-1993 (percent). Source: Swedish Institute of Health
Services Development, 1994.
Cause/Disease      1988          1989          1990           1992          1993
Cardiovascular     63.9          61.5          60.5           57.8          56.5
Tumours            16.9           17.8         16.3           16.7          16.2
External causes     8.6           9.3          10.5           11.7          13.0
Respiratory         2.3           2.6           2.5           5.3            2.5
Digestive           2.3           2.4           2.4           2.1            2.4
Infectious          0.7           0.7           0.7           0.7            0.8
Other               5.3           5.6           7.1           8.7            8.6
TABLE III   Mortality from injuries and poisonings (including suicides) per 100,000 population in
1988-1992. Source: Estonia Medical Statistics Bureau.
1988          1989          1990           1991           1992
Men               72.8          80.6           98.1          107.3         117.2
Women             31.2          30.2           31.7          33.9           35.0
Total            104.0          110.8         129.8          141.2         152.2



-52-                               ANNEX 1
TABLE IV   Smoking and alcohol intake in 1990, several countries. Source: OECD Health
Data (Credes); Lipand. A. Health Behaviour among Estonian adult population,
1993.
Smoking (%)
Country                     Female                Male             Alcohol (liters)
Estonia                      19.7a                 49a                  7.8c
Denmark                      40.3                  47.1                 11.6
Finland                       21                   36                    9.5
Netherlands                  31                    39                    9.9
Norway                        34                    37                   5.0
Portugal                      job                 417_                  13.1_
Sweden                       25.9                  25.8                  6.4
United Kingdom                29                   31                    n/a
United States                 22.8                  28.4                  n/a
a 1992;      b 1985;      C 1991
TABLE V    Abortions and contraception 1991-1992. Source: Estonia Medical Statistics Bureau,
1993.
Micro-    Abortions per               Women with       Women on hormonal
Year   abortions     1,000 live    Abortions*     IUD *            contraception *
births
1991     29,406       1522.0        77.2           196.8               39.1
1992     28,403       1578.9        75.2           204.7               38.1
* per 1,000 fertile women



-53-                               ANNEX 1
TABLE VI   Discharges by groups of disease, 1992. Source: Estonia Medical Statistics Bureau,
1994.
Discharges per 1,000 population
Diseases                              Adults                     Children
Infectious and Parasitic               5.6                         11.4
Neoplasms                              11.6                         2.2
Mental Disorders                       10.1                         4.0
Nervous System                         9.1                         14.2
Cardio-vascular                        30.2                         1.2
Respiratory System                     13.9                        39.0
Digestive System                       18.3                        11.7
Genito-urinary System                  17.1                         5.9
Pregnancy, childbirth,
puerperium complications               37.6                         0.1
Musculo-skeletal                       13.0                         2.5
Other                                  9.7                         34.4
Total                                 189.5                        126.6
TABLE VII  External causes of deaths per 100,000 population (1993 figures are preliminary).
Source: Swedish Institute for Health Services Development.
Cause\Year          1988       1989       1990       1991       1992       1993
Alcohol
intoxication        8.72       8.29       10.44      13.15      16.51      19.98
Suicide             24.49      25.56      27.05      27.01      32.19      38.19
Violence            5.96       7.84       11.01      10.79      19.56      25.79
Traffic accidents   22.95      27.79     35.64.      37.86      23.77      27.31
Total               61.12      69.48      84.14      88.41      92.03      111.27



-54-                                ANNEX 1
TABLE VIII Indicators of ambulatory care utilisation in 1988-1992 per inhabitant. Source: Estonia
Medical Statistics Bureau.
Indicator\Year                  1988        1989       1990        199         1992
Ambulatory visit ...             8.3        7.7         7.0         6.6        4.8
... of which due to illness [%]  68.1       66.4       72.0        71.0        74.3
Home visits                      0.8        0.7         0.7         0.6         0.5
Dental visits                    1.8         1.7        1.7         1.7         1.4
TABLE IX    Health services utilisation data, 1990. Source: OECD Health Data (Credes);
Estonia Medical Statistics Bureau, 1993..
Ambulatory      Hospital                                       Bed
Country        care; office    admissions      ALOS        Bed days per   occupancy
and home       per 100                        capita       rate (%)
visits     inhabitants
Estonia'           5.3           17.75          16.2           2.88           76.6
Denmark            n/a           21.2            8.0           1.30           82.2
Finland            3.3            n/a           18.2           1.10           n/a
Germany            n/a           20.9           16.5           2.40           86.5
Netherlar-ds       5.5           10.9           34.1           1.20           88.5
Norway             n/a            n/a            n/a           1.10           n/a
Portugal           n/a           10.8           10.8           0.90           69.4
Spain              n/a            n/a            n/a           0.90           n/a
Sweden             2.8           19.5           18.0           1.20           84.2
U.K.               n/a            n/at     n      /a           0.90           n/a
USA                5.5           13.7           9.1            0.90          69.5
" 1992



-55-                                 ANNEX 1
TABLE X       Number of hospital facilities clustered according to the size of bed complement.
Source: World Bank Mission Data.
Range of bed complement                         Number of hospitals
More than 450                                       8
300 -- 450                                        6
150-- 299                                        22
100-- 149                                        11
75-- 99                                         5
50-- 74                                         13
Less than 50                                     *62
Total                                         127
[*] 40 of the 62 have 25 or fewer beds.



-56-                              ANNEX I
TABLE XI   Geographical distribution of selected health care resources in 1992. Source: Medical
Statistics Bureau, 1993.
County/Town              Population         Population per       Beds per 1,000
Physician           population
Tallinn                   492.430               230.9                108.0
Kohtla-Jarve               89,383               331.1                 130.7
Narva                      86,850               343.0                 89.7
Parnu                      57,060               280.5                 94.0
Sillamae                   21,130               330.0                 97.7
Tartu                      113,410               135.2               172.9
Harjumaa                  107,150               541.0                 68.1
Hiiumaa                    11.660               562.7                 63.5
Ida-Virumaa                23,375               796.3                 35.8
J6gevamaa                  42,630               482.4                 53.0
Jarvamaa                   43,759               560.7                 42.3
Laanemaa                   33.870               450.4                 96.0
Laane-Virumaa              79,308               549.0                 57.5
Polvamaa                   36,076               412.1                 70.3
Parnumaa                   43,006               1085.9                50.7
Raplamaa                   39,913               587.9                 82.6
Saaremaa                   40,548               414.2                 81.6
Tartumaa'                  49,287               534.7                 41.2
Valgamaa                   41,050               466.5                 83.8
Viljandimaa                64,879               381.7                183.4
V6rumaa                    45,221               394.3                 92.3



- 57-                               ANNEX 1
FIGURE 1.  Mortality trends over time. Source: Estonia Medical Statistics Bureau.
Death Rates by Cause (per 1 00,000 population)
1400
1200 *                      __                             g Infectious Diseases
* Malignant Tumours
-1000                                                    Circulatory Diseases
100.0         _-_                                          *  Respiratory Diseases
*  Injuries/Accidents
800                                                       *  Other
600
400
200
1960    1970    1980    1985    1990    1991    1992
Year



-58-                              ANNEX I
FIG( RE 2   The income distribution per family member in month grouped in deciles of the
population. First quarter, 1994. Source: Estonia Statistics Bureau.
Income per family member (EEK/month)
3,000.0
[ 1st Decile
2,500.0                                                    * 2nd Decile
] 3rd Docile
2,000.0                                                    * 4th Decile
* 5th Decile
* 6th Docile
1,500.0                                    1,426.0         *7th Docile
*8th Docile
1,108.18
F] 9th Decile
1,000.0                             915.9                     10hDcl
640.E
500.0 -         444.CA
209.7j
0.0
Deciles of Population



-59-
ANNEX I
FIGURE 3    Organisation chart of the Miniscry of Social Affairs (PCU- Project Coordination Unit).
MINISTRY OF SOCLAL AFFAIRS
MINISTER                      Coucior
q LCELLOR
An oeancellery LCgal Dcpl
rsonnei Bureau       Informiaics Dpt
Pf7J       ~~~PR Officer   Fo-reign Relations Dpt
Ciiizens' affairs   Educational Dpt.
.                 ~~~~~~~Accounig DpL
Administrative DpL
Financial Dpt.
Healthroection                                            Bureau for Coxhntoni
Agencyr of            Vice-ChaceUor 
Medical aid Socw H lurae and                                       oo
|Statistics BurcaE__                     elar Services 
Dpt of Social Soenurityj
Dpt of Standards     Ehau  oses
oI-and Licenses     I
Labour Inspection_
Ageny_Bra of Technology
_      Vi e-Chancellor|
IEDmployeIment_
!C:M;C:U:t~ ~        Dpt. of ELmplo met
Dpt. of L-iving Standad 
lSocio-Economaic Azlss
Social SecurityL
Agency    _ A  Vce-Chancellor|
CnrlHealth
Lnurnc Fund_



-60-                               ANNEX 1
FIGURE 4 The administrative organisation and financial flows in Estonia health care system. The
broken lines represent administrative coordination, dotted lines represent cash flows.
HEALTH PROTECTION
ADVISORY COUNCIL    MSA              AGENCY
CENTRAL HEALTH,                   C
INSURANCE FUND                    COUNTY
DPT. OF HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES    ADVISORY COUNCIL
Medical Officer
VOLUNTARY ASSOCIATION
OF MUNICIPALITIES
MUNICIPALITY
REGIONAL HEALTH
INSURANCE FUND                      ~~~~~~~~~~Medical Officer
INSURANCE FUND
TERTIARY CARE           SECONDARY CARE           PRIMARY CARE
PROVIDER                PROVIDER                 PROVIDER






-61-                                  ANNEX 2
ESTONIA HEALTH PROJECT
ESTONIA'S NATIONAL HEALTH STRATEGY
Introduction
1.           This report is to provide a brief overview of the Ministry of Social Affairs' current health
policy and of its strategy to improve the efficiency, effectiveness, and responsiveness to patients of
Estonia's health system over the next one to three year period. The report is divided into four linked
sections: 1. Strategic Objectives; 2. Major Initiatives Presently Underway; 3. Initiatives which should
be undertaken in the Near Term; and 4. Issues yet to be Resolved. Each of these sections will, in turn,
deal with four key health system topics: a) Public Health, b) Health Services and Health System
Organization, c) Human Resources, and d) Financial Resources.
Strategic Objectives
2.            The central objective of Estonian health policy is to improve the health of the entire
population through the design and implementation of a primary care-based system which emphasizes
health promotion, disease prevention, and health protection. This objective reflects a recognition that
health is an important value in society, and that, therefore, health policy should move beyond curative
medical services if it is to meet the full need of the citizenry. Health and health care services also ought
to be viewed as an investment in the creation of human capital, through the production of specific services
in an economically defined environment.
3.           Consistent with the Health For All strategy devised by the World Health Organization's
European Regional Office, Estonia is in the process of devising a service delivery system which
emphasizes the prevention of avoidable morta'Witv and substantial reductions in current rates of morbidity.
Consistent with the health policy objectives ou;lined in 1992 by the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development (OECD), the Estonian government seeks to achieve these health-related
objectives through development of a financing system which attains the following six organizational
standards: a) universal access; b) income protection; c) macro efficiency of the entire health system; d)
micro efficiency at the individual provider level; e) patient choice of provider; and d) reasonable levels
of physician autonomy.
4.            Specific tasks to be accomplished reflect the measures necessary to transform the medical
system which Estonia inherited at independence in 1991 to meet the above objectives.
*     In Public Health: establish an organizational infrastructure for health promotion and
disease prevention in priority areas such as maternal and child health (including
contraception and famiiy planning services), non-communicable diseases such as
cardiovascular diseases and cancer (including reductions in behavioral risk factors in diet,
smoking, and alcohol consumption, and increase in exercise), and accidents (including
traffic, industrial, and home-related), as well as restructuring the Health Protection
Services, enhancing environmental health, and controlling infectious diseases.



-62-                                    ANNEX 2
*      In Health Services and Health System Organization: the reorganization and reorientation
of the hospital system including the closing of unneeded beds and hospitals as well as
decentralization of ownership of most hospitals to the municipalities; the introduction of
a family doctor system which can transform the existing outpatient polyclinics into a well-
functioning primary health care system; the de-institutionalization of most mental patients
and reducing the number of beds in large mental hospitals; reshaping small hospitals into
a suitable system of nursing homes; the establishment of an appropriate home care and
district nursing system; and the implementation of a system of county and municipal
physicians to coordinate services across all sub-sectors of the health care system.
*      In Human Resources: a reduction in the number of health care personnel; a retraining
program for redundant hospital personnel for employment in nursing homes and home
care; a continuing education program for existing hospital physicians, nurses, and
auxiliary staff; a re-orientation of medical education including the number and types of
internships and residencies; strengthening medical education to include public health and
health economics modules; continuing training in public health for personnel inside and
also beyond the health care system; accelerated retraining of specialists (particularly
pediatricians) for positions as family doctors; and introducing two new curriculum lines
a) to train health protection doctors, and b) to train medical, economics and law graduates
in public administration and health management.
-      In Financial Resources: the financial and organizational stabilization of the new health
insurance system; the consolidation of national regulation and accreditation of health
providers; the establishment of effective financial management inside and between health
insurance funds and hospitals; the development of provider payment systems that reward
performance and quality of care; and the creation of a permanent financing structure to
carry out public health activities.
Additionally, as noted in WHO's Health for All strategy, it is important to stimulate
inter-sectoral cooperation in the pursuit of health promotion and disease prevention
objectives, including collaborative measures in the areas of housing, nutrition, social
protection, and employment. Similarly, it is essential to stimulate community level
activities to help achieve both health-related and inter-sectoral policy objectives.
Major Initiatives Currently Underway
5.            Estonia has begun a number of major initiatives that contribute to the transformation and
reorientation of its health care system. They include the following:
*      In Public Health:
a new Department of Public Health has been established in The Ministry of
Social Affairs.
a new Department of Public Health has been established at the University of
Tartu.



-63-                                     ANNEX 2
a Health Protection Law has been drafted, which provides a new organization for
Health Promotion, Disease Prevention, and Health Protection based on their
integration in the public health service network.
legislation has been passed making seat belt use compulsorv, and banning driving
while under the influence of alcohol.
legislation is being prepared before Parliament to prohibit sales of liquor to
children under 18, and sales in certain public places like hospitals and schools.
an innovative financing arrangement for contraceptives has been introduced,
which requires women to pay 50% of the cost of an abortion, and then uses these
fund almost entirely to pay for free distribution of birth control devices.
a ncw  national center for health education and health promotion has been
established, and has created a network of physicians to carry out health
promotion activities.
legislation has been passed that prohibits advertising of tobacco and places
restrictions on the advertisement of alcohol.
*      In Health Services and Health System Organization:
1994 legislation transferred ownership of about 85%  of hospitals to the
municipalities, created a county doctor system to coordinate all health services
at the regional level, and established a system of head doctors at the municipal
level with responsibilities for all health-related activities.
-      nearly 4000 beds have been eliminated, and 18 small hospitals have been closed,
closing nearly 700 more beds.
-      almost 50 remaining hospitals with less than 50 beds are scheduled to be
transformed into nursing homes.
-      an accreditation process has been introduced for hospitals, stipulating level of
services and facilities.
-      physicians are entitled to establish private practice and to receive partial payments
under certain conditions from the health insurance funds.
-      an explicit national formulary has been established to control the importation of
pharmaceuticals.
*      In Human Resources:
-      a new  general practitioner training curriculum  has been developed at the
University of Tartu.
-      65 general practitioners have already completed training
-      a new  school of nursing for advanced degrees has been established at the
University of Tartu.
-      medical school admissions per year will be reduced from almost 200 to 90.
-      a public health module has been introduced into the medical school curriculum.
-      a small number of young Estonian doctors have been sent to the United Kingdom
for education in health economics and management.



-64-                                   ANNEX 2
-      cooperation has been established with the Nordic School of Public Health for
training of public health doctors and health management, with Swedish and
Finnish universities for general practitioners training, and with Denmark to create
a new curriculum for nursing schools.
-      a computerized national database has been established containing personal and
professional information on all physicians in Estonia.
*      iln Financial Resources:
-      a health insurance system has been put in place and is currently providing 82 %
of the revenues for the hospital sector.
-      1994 amendments to the Health Insurance Law have strengthened the ability of
the Ministry of Social Affairs to regulate the central and local health insurance
funds, and also established Health Insurance Boards, made up of representatives
of employers, employees, providers, and municipalities to whom the health
insurance funds will be held accountable.
-      In order to equalize moneys across the 21 local health insurance funds, all health
insurance premiums are collected by the central health insurance fund, and then
redistributed to the local health insurance funds on the same per-capita formula.
-      1994 Amendments introduce initial cost control mechanisms which seek to
establish budget caps for hospital expenditures.
-      an extra payment is made from state budget to maternity departments for each
delivery, to guarantee service for all pregnant women.
-      special support is provided from  state budget for emergency transporiation
services
-      special support is provided for extremely expensive lifesaving procedures and
drugs.
-      a supplementary budget has been passed to provide state support for hospital
heating, energy and water supply.
Initiatives Which Should be Undertaken in Near Termn
6.            A wide variety of measures are currently under discussion and/or planned for introduction
in the next 12 to 18 months. These reflect a consensus at the Ministry level of the next steps to be taken
in the transformation and re-orientation of the Estonian health system.
*      In Public Health:
-      setting priorities in family planning, cardiovascular prevention and accident
prevention
-      finish setting baselines and establish national targets in priority areas including
nutrition
-      strengthen action programs to reach national targets
-      building capacity for health promotion and protection in institutions, in networks
of institutions, and in training systems
-      financing health promotion through either the national budget, top-slicing the
health insurance funds, and/or some other mechanism, and expand the application



-65-                                     ANNEX 2
of cost effectiveness analyses to decisions about funding public health activities
decentralizing and re-orienting the Health Protection Service (San-epid.) toward
disease prevention and health promotion
work out regulations and norms regarding environmental health and infectious
disease
strengthen the technical capacity of the Health Protection Service, particularly in
the area of laboratory equipment
expanding existing health education programs in priority areas including maternal
and child health, school health education, nutrition, alcohol and tobacco, mental
health, and occupational health
strengthen existing legislation to ensure safety and proper labeling of food and
other imported products, and to ensure enforcement of these regulations including
preventing importation of foodstuffs with expired dates
*      In Health Services and Health System Organization:
re-structure and re-organize health care services according to a clear definition
of functions for primary, secondary, and tertiary level institutions, prioritize
primary health care and family doctor services as a system of prevention, and
introduce the role of family doctor as gatekeeper
-      coordinate care across hospital, primary care, and home care boundaries through
the new role of the country doctor
-      refine measurements to accredit hospitals and develop measures to accredit and
license primary health care providers and also nursing homes
-      link existing municipally paid district nurses to the new regional structure of
county doctors
-      continue to consolidate secondary level hospitals and to close unneeded capacity
-      finalize the change in ownership of most state hospitals by the municipalities
-      develop community-based programs for mentally ill individuals and begin to
phase out large mental hospitals
*      In Human Resources:
-      accelerate retaining of specialists into general practitioners
-      strengthen and re-orient existing medical education, and introduce training in new
areas like quality assurance
-      require  systematic  continuing  education  for medical and  public  health
professionals
-      retain redundant personnel for work in nursing home and home care sectors
-      accelerate efforts to establish an appropriate balance between the number of
hospital beds and the number of doctors and nurses
-      develop a new  group of county doctors and health insurance and hospital
managers trained in management and economics
-      implement European standard for post graduate medical education, extending
internships and residencies from 3 to 5 years total
-      introducing a new education line to train specialists in health protection
-      train county doctors on the epidemiological analysis of medical statistics



-66-                                    ANNEX 2
*      In Financial Resources:
i)     Several initiatives should be pursued with regard to the structure of Health Care
Financing, including:
-      organize financing structure in a stable and sustainable manner based on
some mix of resources collected by health insurance fund, state and
municipalities.
-      strengthen  state  regulation  of health  insurance  funds, including
establishing minimum reserve levels.
ii)    A number of initiatives are needed in the area of Financial Management of
Budgeting, including:
-      establish financial management systems for hospitals and health insurance
funds.
-      develop real budgets in hospitals, with monthly breakdowns in real costs,
according to recognized accounting techniques.
-      develop expenditure forecasting systems to enable hospitals and health
insurance funds to predict their future expenditures.
-      develop standard public accounting capacity to audit hospital and health
insurance fund books.
iii)   Initiatives are also important in the area of cost control and cost containnment,
including:
ensure that contracts issued by local health insurance funds are consistent
with list of services for which hospitals are accredited.
hold enterprises/companies financially accountable for the number of
health insurance cards they distribute, and require them to pay health
insurance premiums on all workers with cards, despite their non-bank
cash-based business methods.
-      require providers to demonstrate that services were delivered to the
insurance board's rightful owner.
-      develop differentiated fee schedule for different types of hospitals
(secondary, tertiary, state), and consider replacement of the current per
diem structure with some type of per-case or per-episode payment.
-      build  up  the  analytic  and  decision-making  capacity  based  on
epidemiological analysis of county government and of the county doctor's
team to provide an overview of health sector expenditures.
-      establish cost-related accounting inside hospitals for pharmaceuticals.
Issues Yet to be Resolved
7.            Although Estonia has made substantial progress in the health sector over the last three
years, and although a number of additional initiatives are planned, there remain a variety of issues that
have not yet been resolved. Some of these are issues that have not yet been discussed due to shortage



-67-                                    ANNEX 2
of time and personnel in the Ministry of Social Affairs. Others are issues that involve important and even
controversial areas of government policy, which will require careful consideration before a decision is
taken. Among such issues are the following:
*      In Public Health:
whether to impose meaningful taxes on alcohol and cigarettes, using a price
policy like Sweden, Norway, and Finland to reduce health-damaging
consumption and also to provide financial resources to help pay for treatment of
alcohol and smoking related medical conditions.
*      In Health Services and Health System Organization:
-      to carefuily consider both the advantages and disadvantages of allowing
municipally owned hospitals to be managed by or sold to the private sector.
-      how to enhance quality of care in hospitals through such measures as medical
audit, infection control, utilization review, second opinions, and routine
autopsies.
-      whether home care services should be included in services which general
practitioners are required to furnish to patients from the patient capitation fee.
-      if privatization of hospitals is adopted, should a special regime for specifically
hospital privatization be designed?
-      how should patient rights be protected, including rights to privacy and right to
be protected against medical negligence.
-      how should a system to discipline physicians for unethical or negligent behavior
be designed and introduced.
*      In Human Services:
how to utilize the existing national system of manpower registration for planning
purposes, and to link those plans to the number of internship and residency
positions that are authorized.
*      In Financial Resources:
-      consider the advisability of supplemental voluntary insurance, and develop a
strategy for its organization a.ad regulation.
-      develop a strategy regarding the appropriateness of patient co-payments.
-      consider whether employees should be required to contribute to payments of
insurance premiums, and, if so, at what percent of total?
-      consider whether municipal tax levels should be adjusted higher and state levels
adjusted lower to enable municipalities to assume a greater level of hospital
operating costs.
-      consider whether health insurance funds should be consolidated into a handful of
regional bodies.
-      consider strengthening the state permit system for large capital equipment (over
1 million EEK), basing it on technology assessment, with permits linked to






-68-                                  ANNEX 3
ESTONIA HEALTH PROJECT
ACCREDITATION, LICENSURE AND QUALITY ASSURANCE
Introduction
1.           The new model of health services decentralizes the management and financing to the
county and municipal levels; the changes could affect these services in dramatically different ways.
(a)    Quality could improve as a by-product of other changes, such as greater responsiveness
to local needs through delegation of decision-making to county and municipal levels;
competition could develop, resulting from the provider-purchaser split; obsolete facilities
could be closed, the remaining ones could be re-equipped, training of health personnel
could improve, and continuity of care could be achieved, due to the comprehensive
primary health care approach;
(b)    Quality could worsen because of relaxed regulations and because of the market forces
released by the reform; indeed some providers may have an economic incentive to provide
inadequate services by compromising on quality (lucrative services could prevail over
non-lucrative but essential services, such as immunizations); also, it could suffer because
of the lack of practice codes for the newly defined specialties.
2.           To successfully implement the new model, it will be essential to retrain the clinical and
administrative professionals, redefine standards and protocols for services, and establish professionally
strong accreditation, licensing and quality assurance systems. These functions will not only provide tools
to control adverse outcomes, but will also pave the way for further quality improvements. The
Government has indicated its willingness to establish relevant systems to ensure the quality of health
services and this project provides resources for getting new systems started.
Background
3.           Accreditation of health facilities. Under the Soviet model, where the facilities were
owned and operated by the state, no formal accreditation process was deemed necessary. Now, within
the framework of health care reform, the Government has set up a Department of Standards and
Licensing (DSL) with two divisions: Bureau of Licenses, and Bureau of Technology (see Annex 1). With
assistance from Denmark, the Department conducted a review of bed needs in 1992 that led to the first
wave of reductions in hospital beds: 18 hospitals were closed and 4,000 beds were eliminated.
4.            Rapid inflation of health costs led to a fiscal crisis of the health care system in the first
quarter of 1994; scarce funding for hospitals made MSA aware of the need to pay close attention to the
cost-effectiveness of the services provided. The DSL proceeded to a formal accreditation process in June
1994 for which the evaluation criteria were developed by Tartu University. The criteria included
requirements for staff qualifications and staff availability, facility conditions, and basic services. Two
hospitals out of 111 were denied licenses, and 22 were issued operating licenses until December 31,
1994; subsequently, these will be converted into the long-term care institutions. This conversion will
create change in the source of financing, since long- term care is funded from the municipalities' social



-69-                                     ANNEX 3
budgets. The remaining hospitals were issued temporary licenses valid until June 30, 1995, which
indicated the tasks and responsibilities for which they would be responsible. This first experience with
accreditation revealed an urgent need to further develop a comprehensive set of accreditation criteria.
5.             Licensing health professionals. At present, formal licenses (issued by DSL) for health
professionals are required only for private practice. A medical degree from the University of Tartu and
completion of internship are enough to practice in publicly-owned and financed health care organizations.
Specialist qualifications, developed by specialty committees appointed by MSA, are conferred by the
Ministry, based on reviews of applicants' records and their medical practice.  However, specialist
standards fall far short of European standards, resulting in a disproportionate number of mediocre
specialists. The medical specialty associations are currently developing new training requirements and
standards for medical specialists; but, it is still unclear to what extent the specialist associations will be
able to perform as self-regulating and licensing bodies.
6.             Quality assurance. The main forms of quality assurance (QA) under the Soviet health
care model consisted of local health departments' reviews, citizen's complaints, and special peer reviews.
Annual performance reviews of the health care institutions were conducted by local health departments
and the Ministry of Health (MOH) (which was replaced in 1992 by the MSA). These reviews were based
on routinely reported data regarding immediate results, including hospital mortality rates. average lengths
of stay (ALOS), and bed occupancy rates. There were also reviews, by MOH-appointed conmmittees and
by peers from specialty associations, of critical events revealed by autopsies and clinical complications.
In addition, the San-Epid Service monitored hygienic conditions in health establishments.
7.             QA had a retrospective and reactive nature, and was largely adverse outcome and/or
normative orientated. But, as the regulations were relaxed after the demise of the Soviet system, the QA
measures were weakened even more: For example, the number of autopsies has declined, and there has
been no improvement in in vivo diagnosing capability. The San-Epid service is under the reorganization
and has not kept up with inspections of health institutions. Moreover, very little attention has been paid
to other QA tools applied in various Western countries such as: (a) assessments through special evaluation
studies; (b) use of performance-based indicators; (c) patient evaluations of health care quality; and (d)
assessments through community surveys on health status, health-related behavior, and the quality of care.
8.             Physicians interested in QA recommend that existing routine data should continue to be
used to assess the health services while comprehensive QA systems are created. The Government has
established a working group to develop Estonia's QA policies. In the meantimie, as a non-governimental
initiative, an independent organization "Medaudit" was established by a group of physicians, and one of
the health insurance funds commissionied this organization to evaluate the quality of the medical treatment
for six tracer diagnoses in eight hospitals.  Although only partial results are available, prelimiinlary
conclusions are that in four hospitals on a tracer diagnosis of pneumonia, treatmenit was delayed in 43 %-
53% of cases, the hospital stay was too long in 12%-50% of cases, and unniecessaiy diagnostic tests were
performed. On a tracer diagnosis of rnyocardial infarction, 34 % -44 ' of patients were holspital ized during
the first six hours of the onset, hospital stays were too long in 41 ' -70',  of the cases, and some
diagnostic tests and treatment modalities were not used when indicated.' TI rends in hospital mortality
rates are presented in Table 1.
1/     J. Gross, A. Ellamaa and R. Zupping, "Assessment ot Quality' ot Ga-c in Patients with Pneumiioniia and
Myocardial Infarction in Estonia," Institute of Medical Audit, Estonia, (nld.).



-70-                                    ANNEX 3
Table I       Trend in Hospital Mortality 1988-1992 (Psychiatric and Tuberclosis Beds Excluded).
Source: Estonia Mecical Statistics Bureau.
Mortality (%) Year        1988           1989            1990           1991         1992
Hospital Mortality         1.8            2.0             2.2            2.3          2.5
Key Issues
9.            The following are critical issues that need to be addressed in accreditation, licensing and
quality assurance (QA):
a.     Institutional design of the respective areas, including long-term financial sustainability
considerations;
b.     Level of standards (minimum, optimum, maximum) and priorities in standard setting;
c.     Development of standards, tools to assess quality, and practice guidelines, taking into
account international experience and local conditions, simplicity and costs;
d.     Routine data used for accreditation, licensing and QA purposes, as a module of the
national health information system;
e.     The capacity to perform accreditation, licensing and QA procedures, which will involve
training of evaluators and monitoring the internal performance of respective bodies;
f.     The quality criteria that need to be included into the contracts of purchasing health
services are urgently needed in the current competitive environment;
g.     An incentive structure for health care organizations to improve the quality of care;
h.     Consumer satisfaction.
Institutional Design
10.           Although the MSA is taking initiative in developing these systems, there are several
alternatives for their institutionalisation. The Government has to make a strategic decision whether to
perform all the functions by themselves, or to delegate some of the responsibilities to professional and/or
non-governmental organizations (NGOs).
11.           Arguments for the Government-run organisations are: (a) secure funding; and, (b) small
size of the country (makes centralised structure feasible). The disadvantages for the Government role are:
(a) Government's sensibility to political changes; and, (b) a tendency to focus on the inspection and
protection role rather than on consultation and education functions.



-71-                                   ANNEX 3
12.           The advantages of turning the tasks over to an NGO are that the Government can then
concentrate on policy functions; also, the NGOs carry more credibility among health care providers as
they are perceived as professional, independent, impartial and professional observers. The disadvantage
of an NGO performing QA accreditation and licensing functions is the difficult issue of financial
sustainability. Thus, the market for such services has to be evaluated before any final decisions are
taken.
13.           Depending on the extent to which the professional organizations develop in the next two
or three years, and assuming they are strengthened and increase their implementing capacity, some kind
of mix would be preferable for the execution stage: The Government could provide the overall regulatory
framework (licensing laws, codes of quality control of drugs, safety regulations for health care facilities,
etc.) and delegate the implementing responsibility to the NGOs.
Setting Standards' Levels
14.           The strategic decision about the right level of standards has to be taken first. It is in the
Government's interest to ensure the meeting of national minimum standards of health care providers,
whereas the providers and purchasers would find it more beneficial to achieve optimum standards given
the available resources. It has been proposed that optimum performance standard could be the
performance level of the top 25% of providers. These could then be regarded as goals towards which
the counties, districts, and providers should work to become centers of excellence. Optimum and
maximum standards are more detailed and demanding than minimum standards, and define various levels
of compliance.
Developing Standards and Guidelines
15.           Health care providers should be evaluated in terms of their compliance with standards
based on scientific evidence of effectiveness, historical conditions, current capabilities, and international
experience. Explicit and applicable standards need to be developed by groups composed of clinicians and
managers who would assess existing services and develop new protocols as necessary. The next step
would be to agree on the scoring and weighing of various indicators. Inputs from all the parties involved
and consensus regarding outcomes are essential to ensure the acceptability and credibility of the new
standards. The sets of standards, once developed, would need to be tested in a few sites, before they
were submitted for final approval. Given limited resources, it is essential that priorities for standard
development be based on political considerations, as well as on the perception about the problems where
gain from implementing accreditation, licensing and QA would yield greatest results in terms of service
quality improvement and cost-effectiveness. In Estonia the likely priorities where the standards need to
be developed fast, are family medicine, acute hospital care, and health promotion and disease prevention
programs that address the risk factors of cardio-vascular disease, and mortality and disability from
external causes.
16.           The accreditation standards have to be developed for a variety of providers: ambulatory
care organizations (private practitioners, polyclinics, surgery centers, dental offices); acute care hospitals;
home care services (personal care and support services, nursing services at home); and long-term care
(nursing homes and long-term care providers), mental health providers (hospitals, institutions for the
mentally retarded and developmentally disabled).



-72-                                    ANNEX 3
17.           The development of practice guidelines or protocols for medical treatment should involve
the active participation of specialist societies and relevant departments of Tartu University's Medical
Faculty. The development of those for family practice would need to be created in coordination with the
project's primary health care and health protection service reorientation component.
18.           Indicators of quality should take into account the following: (a) relevance to the objectives
of national health policy; (b) validity, i.e. that they really measure what they are intended to measure;
(c) simplicity and attention to the cost of obtaining the information; and (d) the ability to differentiate
between persons or groups receiving a high or low quality health care to allow the design and
implementation of targeted policy tools.
19.           The set of standards should include criteria addressing all different aspects of service
provision: (a) structure (structures with important functions - management and administration, medical
and nursing staff, facilities, equipment); (b) process (care of the patient including treatments and
procedures, coordination of care; organizational functions - leadership, management information, infection
surveillance, prevention and control, continuous quality improvement, etc.); and, (c) outcome (immediate
service results, patient satisfaction, etc).
Data Collection
20.            Minimum  sets of quality indicators will have to be built into the regular health
information system. Measurable indicators have been detined in the frames cf WHO/EURO Health for
All Strategy to enable to compare a country profile with a wider European context. These indicators may
form the core of routinely collected quality indicators. In this respect, there is a need to coordinate
between the Bank project's other components that are intended to develop a health management
information system and an information system for health insurance (components A. (a) and C.2
respectively as described in the SAR). Development of a national database on clinical effectiveness data,
and expertise in protocol development will also be required.
Creating Capacity to Perform QA, Accreditation, and Licensing
21.           It will be necessary to train evaluators in the use of evaluation tools and in analysis of
results. This issue is of particular importance because currently the responsibility on QA is placed at the
county level where there is very little or no capacity to evaluate quality. This requirement should be
linked with the Bank project's Center for Continuing Education component. A conference could be an
option for disseminating information about quality assurance among health professionals. Part of the
funding for such activity would be included in the project, with additional contributions from other
donors.



-73-                                    ANNEX 3
Tools for Purchasers
22.           The contracts between the Insurance Funds and health service providers need to include
quality measures such as: (a) guarantees of adherence to legal requirements and national codes of practice
or medical protocols (not yet developed); (b) systems to assure quality (such as clinical audit and patient
satisfaction reviews); (c) specific standards of performance indicators on matters of general or local
concern (outcome measurements for specific clinical conditions); (d) "common law" standards which
would generally be expected from services operating in a modern medical environment. This issue has
to be addressed in coordination with the health financing study that deals with the contracting procedures.
Incentives
23.           These should be created to encourage health care providers to improve their quality. A
number of measures for this purpose could be considered: differentiated reimbursement based on meeting
certain quality targets, publishing regularly the quality indicators of different providers, encouragement
of social control and responsibility by developing health committees, involving government authorities,
members of legislative bodies, and consumer groups. Such incentives would facilitate the establishment
of continuous quality improvement management systems in hospitals. Also, consumer satisfaction
should be measured on a regular basis through patient and household surveys.
Description of Project Sub-component A. (c) Accreditation of Health Facilities, Licensure of
Professionals and Quality Assurance
24.           Implementing responsibility for this sub-component will be with the MSA's Chancellor.
The objective of this component is to support the Government in developing accreditation, licensure and
quality assurance systems for the health services by providing the resources for: (a) developing policies,
standards, and assessment tools and subsequently testing them; (b) to creating domestic capacity to
promote the polices, standards and tools once they are established, and educate the users on how to
interpret and encourage their use.
25.           As part of the proposed Bank project, MSA's Department of Standards and Licenses will
introduce these concepts in two counties. The project would support technical assistance to MSA to
define the following: (a) processes required for developing standards and protocols for health care
institutions and various categories of health personnel; (b) organizational arrangements for accreditation
of health facilities and licensure of health personnel; and (c) processes for initiating a supportive quality
assurance system in a few hospitals, with full involvement of hospital clinical and managerial staff.
26.           Thle sub-component will provide the MSA and pilot sites with: (a) necessary hard and
software for their specific tasks, communications, and efficient administration; (b) relevant periodicals
and handbooks; local and foreign technical assistance for development of standards,  evaluation
procedures, curricula for training evaluators; arid, incremental recurrent costs during the project
implementation period. The estimated base cost for this sub-component is [JS $306, 100 with expected
US $178,500 (including TA and short-term visits) provided through bilateral assistance. Implementation
of the pilots could be done through contracting local NGOs. The detailed costs are described in the cost
tables.



-74-                                     ANNEX 3
27.            Project implementation 1995 - Year one. Foreign technical assistance for 4 person/months
and local technical assistance for 5 person-months to assist the Government in choosing a feasible
institutional design, in developing the evaluation criteria and standards, and in designing the pilot studies,
in the development of training curriculum for QA. Development of support infrastructure will include
the procurement of office equipment, and computers hard and software. The needs for professional
periodic literature and handbooks will be defined and orders placed.
28.            Project implementation 1996 - Year two. Training the evaluators (jointly with the Center
of Continuing Education in Public Health sub-component). Activities in the two pilot counties: testing the
accreditation and QA procedures for acute care hospitals in the two pilot counties; (b) testing the practice
protocols and performance criteria for the family physicians; (c) using quality indicators for contracting
practices; (d) introducing incentives for high quality performance for providers.  Development of
professional standards for specialists will continue during this period. These activities will be supported
by 2 months of foreign TA, 6 months of local TA, and 2 short-term visits. Development of support
infrastructure will entail the procurement of 3 computers with software for the MSA designated
institutions.
29.            Project implementation 1997 - Year three. Evaluation of the results of testing pilot cites,
modification of procedures and, and subsequent re-evaluation in the pilot sites. Continuing training in
quality assurance. An international workshop will be organised for professional exchange on QA
experience. The activities will be supported by 2.5 months of TA, 6 months for local TA, and 2 short-
term visits.
30.            Project implementation 1998 - Year four.  National implementation of accreditation,
;icensing and QA procedures. Co-funding a conference with other donors on the impact of the
implementing the national strategy for accreditation, licensure and QA systems on the quality and cost-
effectiveness of health services. The activities will be supported by 6 months of local TA.
31.            Monitoring and evaluation. The process indicators for the process evaluation will be: (a)
the Government's report on national strategy on accreditation, licensure and QA no later than February
15, 1996; (b) procurement and installment the office equipment, computers; (c) timely initiation of testing
in pilot sites. The outcome indicators will be: (a) approved standard sets and evaluation tools; (b) number
and quality of trained evaluators; (c) reliable evidence of improved quality of medical services.






-75-                                ANNEX 4
ESTONIA HEALTH PROJECT
UNIVERSITY OF TARTU BIOMEDICAL SCIENCES BUILDING
Introduction
1.           One of the World Bank Estonia Health Project objectives is to develop human resources
through the reinforcement of modern public health training, integrated pre-clinical medical training and
continuing education for public health doctors, family doctors, health insurance administrators and other
health personnel.
2.           The Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education have agreed on the
construction and equipment of a new biomedical sciences building (Biomedicum) at the Tartu University
as a priority issue. The Biomedicum will accommodate the Pre-clinical Program and Public Health
Department of the Tartu Medical Faculty, MSA's National Pharmaceutical Agency, and the Tartu Public
Health Laboratories. The Biomedicum is perceived to be an integral part of the Government's strategy
to develop health system's human resources by providing infrastructure for upgrading the quality of
preclinical training of medical students, and for developing the Department of Public Health. It will also
support the ongoing health reforms by providing infrastructure for the State Agency of Medicines, and
the municipal public health laboratories.
Background.
3.           The Tartu University was founded in 1632, and medicine was one of the six specialties
taught at that time. The Faculty of Medicine has strong traditions of excellence in research and teaching,
and has been associated with a number of internationally renowned scholars: A. Rauber in anatomy; K.E.
von Baer in embryology; K. Z. von Manteuffel, N. Pirogov, L. Puusepp in surgery; etc. It is only an
unfortunate fact that the infrastructure for teaching and research has largely remained the same as it was
when the above mentioned figures were active in the 19th and early 20th century, e.g. the Departments
of Anatomy, Pharmacology, Pathology are located in the building built in 1802-1810 which has not
undergone any major renovation. Dilapidated buildings, lack of up-to-date technology, compromises with
safety regulations in the laboratories -- all are having negative impact on the quality of teaching
preclinical subjects, performing laboratory testing, and conducting research.
4.           Further, the preclinical departmenits are scattered around the town, often having divisions
located in different buildings, e.g. divisions of the Department of Pathology are located in three buildings
physically separated from each other by considerable distances.
5.           Training in Public Health takes place in the Department of Public Health (formerly the
Department of Hygiene and Health Care Organisation) which is located in the Zoology Museum. Until
recently, teaching was based on the Soviet concept of hygiene, socialised medicine, and health care
organisation. In line with the Government's health reform, the Department of Public Health is realigning
itself to accommodate for the changed training needs. The adjustment will involve the introduction of new
items in the curriculum, and expanding the faculty by four professorships with academic and
administrative support.



-76-                                    ANNEX 4
6.            The State Agency of Medicines is a recent creation as a response to reorienting Estonia
towards world pharmaceuticals' market after the collapse of the supply from the former Soviet Union.
The development of the agency requires the development of quality control laboratories that has been
constrained by the lack of appropriate infrastructure.
7.            The Tartu Municipal Public Health Laboratory under the authority of the Health
Protection Agency serves as a regional centre for the southern parts of Estonia. It also serves as a training
facility for students in public health. Structural readjustment and upgrading of the Health Protection
Service is a strategic issue in the Government's health system reform.
Key Issues.
8.            The main rationale for the Biomedicum is its potential impact on the quality of future
medical profession, since the Tartu University is the sole institution where physicians, high level nurses,
and public health professionals are trained. Other key issues related are the following:
a.    the old age and state of disrepair of buildings accommodating the preclinical
departments generate high costs for maintenance and renovation;
b.     potential economies of scale to be gained in a single building through several
departments exploiting common equipment (e.g. electron microscopes,
centrifuges, sterilisation and disinfection equipment, automatic substance
analyzers, computers, etc.);
c.     safety regulations for modern laboratory techniques and equipment are difficult,
if not impossible, to implement in the current facilities;
d.     long distances between the departments and divisions imply high time costs for
students and faculty; the disintegrated structure has a negative impact on
interdepartmental collaboration;
Project Description.
9.            The Biomedicum will accommodate the following .unctional entities:
a.     Department of Pathology (divisions of Pathological Anatomy, Pathophysiology,
Forensic Pathology; affiliated Division of Clinical Diagnostics and Autopsy (of
University Hospitals) and the Bureau of Forensic Medicine Examination (regional
center for the whole South-Estonia). The department carries out research and
educates under- and postgraduate medical students in pathological anatomy,
surgical pathology, forensic pathology, and autopsy course;
b.     Department of Human Biology and Genetics is teaching under and postgraduate
medical students in general biology, human and medical genetics;
c.     Department of Biochemistry (Divisions of General Biochemistry and Medical
Biochemistry). These divisions deal with the research in the field of biochemistry



-77-                                  ANNEX 4
and educate under- and postgraduate students in bioorganic chemistry, general
biochemistry, clinical biochemistry, stomatological and pharmaceutical
biochemistry.
d.     Department of Anatomy (Divisions of Normal Anatomy, Clinical Anatomy,
Histology and Embryology, and Cytology). The Department is teaching medical
students normal anatomy, clinical anatomy, histology, embryology, and cytology.
e.     Department of Pharmacology  trains medical students in pharmacology,
toxicology, and clinical pathology.
f.     Department of Public Health (Divisions of Health Promotion, Biometrics and
Epidemniology, Health Management, Environmental and Occupational Health,
History of Medicine, Medical Sociology). The department trains medical
students, nurses, and is a base for training and research of postgraduate advanced
degrees in public health.
g.     Department of Immunology. Trains medical students in basic and clinical
immunology.
h.     Department of Microbiology (divisions of Bacteriology, Virology and Clinical
Microbiology). Trains medical students in general and specific microbiology and
clinical microbiology. For the needs of student training and training of specialists
in clinical microbiology, the department provides diagnostic services for Tartu
University Hospital.
i.    Tartu City Public Health Laboratories.
j.     Multi-Departmental Divisions of Electronic Microscopy, Isotope Laboratory,
Centrifugation Laboratory, Vivarium.
k.     Administration and common areas.
10.          The total costs for the Biomedicum complex are estimated at US$ 20.9 million.
11.          The project will finance: architectural services, civil works, supervision of construction,
office and scientific equipment and furniture, and technical assistance. Procurement of these services will
have to ensure that the proceeds from the loan are used only for the purpose for which the loan was
granted, with due attention to considerations of economy and efficiency and without regard to political
or other non-economic influences or considerations, (Guidelines, Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits, para. 1.2), as required of the World Bank by its Articles of Agreement .



-78-                                     ANNEX 4
12.           The human and material resources requi-ed include: (a) civil works (design, construction
and supervision); (b) equipment (office and scientific equipment); (c) furniture; (d) training (in
planning, procurement, accounting, and functional programming and supervision of construction); and
(e) administration (Project Coordination Unit - PCU). The architectural brief has been prepared by
consultants describing the infrastructure to be procured, civil works and equipment, as a set to be
implemented in a coherent manner, consistent with specified norms and criteria.
13.           Civil Works.  The Architectural Brief specifies the TOR for the architectural and
engineering services needed for site planning, building design, specification of building equipment, cost
estimates, architectural supervision, and evaluation.  The site proposed appears to be of adequate
dimensions and shape, and is reported to be owned by the University of Tartu. The MSA will provide
the Bank with a topographical and property survey and a confirmation of ownership before signing of the
contract for Architectural Services. The Government has indicated its intention to propose retroactive
financing for the architectural and engineering services, pending on the effective date of the proposed
loan.
14.           Equipment. The Brief includes the preliminary lists of office and scientific equipment,
which would be procured separately from the civil works. PCU equipment and supplies would be pre-
financed under the PHRD grant. The Government has indicated for retroactive financing for PCU office
renovation and operating costs.
15.           Furniture. The Brief includes criteria to guide the architect in the design, costing and
specification of furniture.Furniture would be financed under the project. PCU furniture would be financed
under the PHRD grant.
16.           Training. Project staff has been identified to fulfill four functions that are critical to the
implementation of this project component. These functions include: (a) management of the project
implementation schedule; (b) procurement; (c) computerized accounting; and (d) functional programming
and supervision of construction. Because the staff have had no experience with projects of this scope and
complexity, the Government has requested that a training program be financed under the project to
improve their skills through short-term training, and on-site guidance. The training of the
accounting/computer specialist, and of the supervising engineer would be included in the independent
auditing and the construction supervision contracts,  respectively. The training program  has been
incorporated into the project's critical path management plan.
17.           Administration. The administrative responsibility on the project lies with the Director
of the central PCU in the MSA. He is assisted by the Tartu University coordinator, a bilingual secretary,
a project planner, a supervising engineer (residing in Tartu), a procurement specialist, an
accountant/computer specialist, and the health finances coordinator.
18.           Procurement plan.  The plan defines the following procurement procedures: (a)
mobilization (drafting TOR, appointing of project staff and specialists, familiarity with the World Bank
procurement guidelines, scheduling, cost estimating, drafting procurement documents, recruiting
consultants, and architectural services); (b) acquisition of resources (preparation, producing the general
procurement notice, deciding on the modes of procurement, inviting to bid, evaluating bids, awarding
contracts); and (c) delivery of procured services (reception, training and maintenance).



-79-                                     ANNEX 4
19.           Mobilization. The Government is using the time between the project preparation mission
and loan effectiveness to complete the preliminary tasks. MSA expects that the architectural services will
be contracted under retroactive financing, and that the main design phase will be completed and approved,
before loan effectiveness. TOR for the staff of the PCU have been drafted by the PCU director and
favorably reviewed by the Bank. Key staff and specialists have been identified, and their qualifications
have been confirmed by the Bank as consistent with their TOR.
20.            Copies of the latest World Bank Guidelines for procurement of civil works and goods,
for the recruitment of consultants, for auditing, and for disbursement have been given to the PCU director
to enable that all appropriate staff become familiar with them.
21.            Scheduling the critical path was completed during the appraisal mission and reviewed with
the PCU director and the project planner, who were briefed by mission members on the use of critical
path software. The objective is to control the timing of events so that they occur in a coordinated manner.
The PCU project planner is responsible for managing the project critical path, and identifying potential
obstacles so that the director may remove them before they impede the project's progress.
22.            Cost estimates of the Biomedicum were scrutinized during appraisal with few changes
made. The construction unit cost was raised; the gross area was reduced, and the furniture was estimated
as a separate budget item. It was agreed with the Government that daft procurement documents for civil
works, goods, and consultants will be prepared by the PCU procurement specialist, assisted and trained
by an experienced consultant, for the Bank review before negotiations.
23.            The recruitment of consultants was initiated with the pre-qualification procedures for
architectural services. Estonian firms (several were visited by the mission in Tartu and Tallinn) and
foreign firms from 19 countries (through embassies, by fax and by letter) were invited to submit their
qualifications. The evaluation committee, nominated by the Minister of Social Affairs, submitted a short
list of seven firms from six countries to the World Bank for approval. Several candidates are joint
ventures with Estonian firms. A Letter of Invitation has been issued to the firms included in the short list,
together with the following documents: TOR and architectural brief, supplementary information for
consultants (including a suggested format of curriculum vitae), and a draft of the contract, which would
be negotiated with the successful candidate, and under which the architectural services would be
performed, following the Bank's non-objection notification.
24.            Architectural services include architectural and engineering services for the design and
supervision of the site, the building(s) and the furniture are scheduled to start in November 1994 after
signing the contract.
25.            The architectural brief. This document defines the architectural services, and provides
the architect with the necessary data to proceed with these services. The data include site information,
functional programs and lists of fixed equipment, accommodation area schedules, budgets, implementation
schedules, and preventive maintenance objectives. For reterence, the brief includes detailed lists of office
and scientific equipment, with their spatial and technical characteristics. The specification of furniture,
which would be bid separately from civil works or equipment, would be included in the architectural
services



-80-                                   ANNEX 4
26.           Phasing of the architectural services. The architectural services would be implemented
in four successive phases: (a) schematic phase; (b) main design phase; (c) construction documents phase;
and, (d) architectural supervision phase. The written approval of one phase by the PCU director would
be the authority needed to proceed with the next. The approval of the schematics phase is particularly
critical for designated users who should be invited to participate actively in needed periodic reviews of
the architects conceptual work as it progresses.
27.           Construction. During construction, both the services of the architects and those of a
construction supervision firm would be provided. Architects would make periodic visits and a
construction supervision firm (CS) would be responsible for continuous inspection and record-keeping
on behalf of the PCU. Critical steps involve inspecting the foundations before back-filling, testing of
structural materials, such as concrete, and training of designated Estonian counterparts. The CS would
be independent from the architect or contractor; the three roles would be defined in all contracts.
28.           Acguisition of the resources. Procurement for civil works and supplies would be done
in accord with the May 1992 Guidelines, Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, and, for
consultant services, in accord with the August 1981 Guidelines, Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing A-gency. All procurement would be carried out by the
PCU at the MSA, which is assembling and training its procurement team, expected to be completed and
operational in September 1994.
29.           Resources would be recruited or procured, in a logical sequence, in order to achieve the
initial sub-component objective (the economic and cost-effective construction of the Biomedicum).
Implementation calls for initial recruitment and training of PCU staff and specialists to manage
procurement procedures, secure services for a complex architectural contract and produce draft bid
documents acceptable to the Bank. The next step would be managing the preparation of the contract
documents for the construction. The third step would be the procurement and supervision of the civil
works, equipment and furniture contracts. The component will be completed when the building is built
and furnished, the project is evaluated and personnel are hired to operate and maintain the building and
equipment.
30.           The PCU director will submit to the Bank the General Procurement Notice in March
1995, at least 60 days before the first bidding documents for civil works or goods are made available to
the public.
31.           The modes of procurement would be as follows: (a) civil works (US$ 15.6 million):
international competitive bidding (ICB); (b) office and scientific equipment (US$4.9 million): ICB,
unless otherwise agreed by the Bank. To the feasible extent the procurement would be done by grouping
the various items in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 250,000 or more to encourage
greater supplier interest. Contracts valued at less than US $50,000 and not exceeding US $ 500,000 in
aggregate would be awarded on the basis of comparing price quotations obtained from at least three
eligible suppliers; (c) furniture (US $ 920,000: local competitive bidding (LCB). Contracts not exceeding
US $ 200,000 in aggregate would be awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three eligible suppliers; (d) architectural services (US $ 970,000) and construction
supervision (US $ 210,000): selection from a short list. The selection process will be consistent with the
August 1991 Guidelines. Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank. The
principal factors in choosing a firm will be the competence and experience and the personnel to be



-81-                                    ANNEX 4
assigned, the quality of the proposal, and the client/consultant relationship. The Government has sent a
letter of invitation to a short list of architectural firms, after consultation with the Bank; (e) training:
short-term consultants to train and assist PCU specialists, and PCU specialists financed under the project,
would be selected from a list submitted by the Government, on the basis of a comparison between
curricula vitae and agreed TOR. The cost of training the PCU procurement specialist and helping to
prepare procuremenit documenits for civil works, office and scientific equipment, furniture, and consultants
(a short-term  visit and 7 months of consulting services) is estimated at US$ 150,000.
32.           Procurement Procedures: Consulting services would be preceded by the preparation of
a detailed training program. Delivery of goods would be preceded by training of staff in inventory
management, operations and preventive maintenance. The method and timing of delivery would be
specified in TOR and contracts (which would designate qualified counterparts, adequate storage facilities
and the management of the project's critical path).
Monitoring
33.           Evaluation procedures and indicators would be publicized in all instructions to bidders
and performanice targets would be specified as contractual obligations. Task assignment would be screened
through pre-qualification and guided by a competitive process, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank. The
PCU director, assisted by designate] specialists and consultants, would monitor the selection and
performance of agencies implementing the Biomedicum. The account of the on-going evaluation and any
resulting actions would be disseminated through periodic reports.
34.           Expectations. Project objectives, tasks, required training, and pre-agreed performance
indicators would be written into all agreements as part of each TOR, with references to standards (of
quality, quantity, economy, maintenance and security), criteria (government norms, World Bank
procurement guidelines and professional criteria) and goals (project objectives, schedules and budgets).
35.           TOR have been drafted for the PCU director, the project planner, the procurement
specialist, the short-term procurement consultant, the accounting/computer specialist, the short-term
accounting consultant, and the architect. TOR would be written for the project planning consultant, the
University of Tartu coordinator, the PCU supervising engineer, and the construction supervision firm.
All TOR, completed with particular attention to indicators, and approved by the PCU director, would be
faxed to the World Bank before negotiations. Study visits to World Bank projects, to be programned by
training consultants, have been planned to up-grade PCU skills in management, procurement, planning
and accounting.
36.           The architectural brief for the Biomedicum, to be attached to the architect's contract,
includes quantitative and qualitative standards for the architecture, for fixed building equipment and for
office and scientific equipment. Furniture standards would be defined by the architect as a main design
phase task. The MSA has agreed to complete, before negotiations, a survey of Estonian furniture
manufacturers (reviewing performance, quality, cost, and production rate of furniture made using local
labor and materials) and of available storage facilities. Copies of the guidelines for the procurement of
goods and civil works prepared by the World Bank have been issued to PCU staff. Targets (schedules
and budgets), reviewed and revised by the appraisal mission and the PCU director, have been included
in the Staff Appraisal report.



-82-                                   ANNEX 4
37.           Im=lementing agencies, such as the PCU, Tartu University, architects, the construction
supervision firm, equipment and furniture suppliers, civil works contractors, procurement and accounting
consultants and their counterparts, trainers and trainees, would continue to be identified through a process
of pre-qualification. Awards would be proposed through procurement processes, governed by World Bank
guidelines, which would compare pre-qualifications with tasks.
38.           Evaluation. Performance would be measured through the use of indicators which are
being specified in TORs and contracts. On-going verification of quality and quantity (against contracts
and TORs) would proceed with specific evaluation milestones at mid-project review, before reception and
at the completion of project. Implementation and disbursement schedules would be compared to agreed
targets, and analyzed as inter-related activities of the project critical path.
39.           A reliable information-sharing system is being prepared by the PCU director for a realistic
management of the project critical path, with particular attention given to the Tartu-Tallinn linkage. The
quarterly progress reports (QPR), to be prepared by the PCU director, would compare the progress of
Biomedicum implementation to the agreed targets specified in the project Staff Appraisal Report. Each
QPR would include an evaluation of status, with particular attention to traiuing and procurement
performance, as well as a forecast of possible obstacles and timely proposals for corrective measures,
when called for. The results of all evaluation activities would be recorded in a manner which would
facilitate retrieval for future selection tasks.



-83-                                   ANNEX 5
ESTONIA HEALTH PROJECT
THE HEALTH FINANCING SYSTEM
Background
I .           The modern system of health insurance in Estonia was created in January 1992 to replace
the integrated Soviet model where funding was allocated to providers on the basis of bed norms and
historic throughput of patients. Twenty two sickness funds (now called health insurance funds) were
created; one for each county and each of the major towns, and one for seamen. Revenue for the fund
is derived from a 13 % payroll tax levied on enterprises and the self-employed. These funds cover about
78% of total expenditures, while the remainder comes from locai and central government, which own
most the health facilities, are responsible for maintenance and development of the buildings, and cover
some large equipment purchases. A small amount of revenue is generated from user charges and renting
facilities to medical groups and for other commercial purposes.
2.            County health insurance funds were given substantial autonomy over their administration
although they had to return 50% of the revenue collected to the central Association of Sickness Funds
(now replaced by the Central Health Insurance Agency -- CHIA) for redistribution among the counties
according to needs. Nevertheless, significant inequalities in funding persisted. Under the 1992 health
insurance act, coverage is provided for medical treatment in public and private facilities with which the
local fund has a contract. It also covers dental care and some family planning for women who have
recently had abortions or a birth. In an effort to stem the high incidence of abortion, women must now
pay 50% of the cost. Small clharges are also made for in-patient and out-patient care although they barely
cover the administration cost. In addition to patient care, the insurance fund must also cover statutory
maternity and sickness pay and accident benefits.  Enterprises deduct these amounts from  their
contributions to the fund, although in the future, the fund will be expected to make these payments.
3.            Funding for health facilities is based on a fee-for- service point system set by the Ministry
of Social Affairs (MSA). All procedures are assigned a number of points and the value of the poinit,
which is updated periodically, determines the level of remuneration. In-patient stays are remunerated on
a daily basis. Although the daily payment declines after three days and then again at 15 days, an
incentive exits to keep patients in hospital beyond what is clinically necessary. Out-patient services are
also covered according to a point system; again, an incentive exits for the provider to request too many
follow up visits. The point value is determined through negotiations with doctors and managers and has
been increased several times since fall 1993. The result was that between March 1993-March 1994, bills
to insurance funds almost doubled without any overall increase in patient visits.
4.            Some debate arises about whether local insurance funds have the right to negotiate
different prices for services with local providers. Some appear to see the price tariff as a maximum,
while others view it as a fixed reimbursement. The CHIA regards the tariff as a maximum and allows
funds to negotiate lower prices with providers.



-84-                                    ANNEX 5
Recent Changes
5.            In February 1994, the CHIA was created to replace the Central Association of Sick Funds
with a much stronger mandate to implement health insurance reform and regulate the income and
expenditure of local funds. In April 1994, a law was passed that gave all counties a budget based on the
resident population (capitation). it also gave the CHIA power to cap the funds' expenditures in an effort
to stem the considerable cost escalation arising from the point system and from an increase in point value.
The new law also made health care a right for those under 16 years of age and for full time students;
previously it depended on parental entitlement for all but children under three. These changes provoked
considerable controversy since they were seen as a way to centralize power. Thus, there are moves in
parliament to reverse the law although there is no evidence they will successful.
6.            The CHIA retains about 1 .7% of insurance revenue for its own administration while local
administration costs a further 0.8% . A health fund is to be established that will release 0.5% of revenue
for health promotion activities.  In addition, it retains about 4.4%  for national emergencies and
epidemics, estate development and large medical equipment. Expenditure for transplants and prostheses
is provided as a separate line item to counties by capitation but merging with general medical expenditure
is not permitted. The remainder is allocated to counties. The CHIA has projected expenditures to 1997,
although these are based on Ministry of Finance estimates of inflation which may underestimate both
general inflation and, more important, medical inflation which often increases at a faster rate. However,
under-estimates may be offset by future rises in real wages, which would increase contributions.
Conversely, a recession would depress them and make further government subsidy necessary.
County Capitation Budgets
7.            The shift to a system based on capitation replaces both the Soviet system, that based
allocations on historic patterns of use and budgetary norms fixed according to capacity, and, more
recently, budgets based on local revenue. This was a radical step towards a system based on need rather
than utilisation determined largely by existing supply. The change occurred within one month and
resulted in significant shifts in the distribution of resources: For example, Tallinn now has to give up
almost 25 % of the revenue it derives from workers while all other areas, with the exception of Harjumaa,
gain from the redistribution. As in capital cities elsewhere in the world, a reduction in the allocation to
Tallinn caused a particularly vociferous protest. The problem is intensified since the current payment
system is passive, and only attempts to meet current utilisation, albeit with some recently introduced
measures to check escalating cost. Hiowever, If the local funds are to be able to target resources to meet
needs more effectively, they will require additional tools to increase the effectiveness of their contracts
with providers.



-85-                                     ANNEX 5
8.             Although need is a rather imprecise concept, most definitions recognise that population
numbers alone are not the only determinants.  Rather, age and sex distribution are critical factors.
Females during the fertile years require significantly more medical care than males, and those above 65
of both sexes generally have a much higher hospitalisation rate than younger people. In addition, many
other factors contribute to differing health status between counties and a desire to rectify variations may
translate into larger allocations to certain counties. The selection of variables is a matter for debate but
the final system should be both simple and transparent so that counties are able to understand how their
allocation is determined. For example, for some years, the UK has used standardised mortality rates to
ascertain the general level of health using them to weight the final allocation; other countries are
considering using infant mortality rates in a similar way.
Revenue Collection
9.             Each county is given a revenue collection target based on the number of enterprises
located in it (based on Ministry of Finance records obtained from registrations of enterprises at county
level). This target is adjusted for anticipated shortfalls in income through defaulters based upon the
national average. Where targets exceed the budget, the balance is returned to the central fund; where
they fall short of targets, the budget is supplemented from the center. Also, if collections fall short of
targets, an amount is deducted from the county budget; if they exceed them, the county may retain the
excess. This system encourages greater efforts in revenue collection, but also penalises counties that have
an abnormally high proportion of defaulters.
10.           The size of the enterprise contribution is determined by its overall payroll. It must
declare its total wages and number of employees to the fund (although it is not necessary to list those
employed). If an enterprise's contributions are up-to-date, the fund provides it with cards to distribute
to employees. In theory, an enterprise should cancel a card when a worker leaves employment and
entitlement expires two months later. In practice, it is thought this is often not done. Nationally, the
proportion of enterprises defaulting on their health insurance obligations is about 18% since January
1992. Recently, however, arrears have been falling as insurance funds have been refusing to register
people from companies not paying their contributions. Moreover, the amended law now states that
enterprises are obliged to pay for health care if they fail to pay the premiums.
11.           A related issue is collecting premiums from  the self employed.  Although the new
entitlement-based system increases the incentive to register, there is still the problem that many under-
declare their income, using the minimum wage, and verification is not easy. This issue is likely to grow
as the labour market relies more on small private businesses and self-employment.
Local Fund as Purchaser of Health Care
12.           Although the county fund only receives revenue from those in employment, it must
provide benefits for dependant of all those insured, which includes all children, the elderly, the disabled,
pregnant women and the unemployed up to six months (this time the unemployed person has no automatic
entitlement to insurance). Although municipal authorities are expected to cover the cost of care of those
with low incomes, in practice this appears to vary. The fund receives no subsidy from general
government revenues for those not contributing and, as a result, it is vulnerable to unemployment rises.
In such an eventuality, the local funds are not able to act independently and raise the contribution from



-86-                                  ANNEX 5
those in employment to meet revenue shortfall. Neither would this be particularly desirable since it
would represent a further tax on employment in a recession hit economy.
13.          County funds may contract with both public and private providers. Where patients
receive treatment from providers in counties other than where they live, the new law permits direct
reimbursement from the inhabitants' own counties: previously payment was made first from the provider's
county, with the request that it ran the danger of not being reimbursed. County health insurance funds
negotiate their own contracts with these providers; and, some funds are beginning to become more
sophisticated in the way they deal with hospitals, requiring them to present their wares at specially
convened meetings. The large charges of a few local hospitals, however, have highlighted the inability
of most health insurance funds to specify contracts in any detail beyond a global limit on expenditure in
order to contain costs.
14.          An area where some progress appears to have been made with negotiated contracts is for
surgery requiring protheses. Budgets for protheses are included by the Central Agency as a separate line
item; and, while the procedures are part of the national tariff, the protheses are not. This has motivated
some local funds to look more closely at the price hospitals charge for these procedures. Parnu county,
for example, now purchases hip-joint replacement operations from a hospital in Tallinn which uses
cheaper but effective protheses imported from Denmark, rather than purchasing locally (Patients may
go to another hospital but must pay the difference between the price charged at the local and Tallinn
hospital themselves). Elaboration of this type of preferred provider contract could become the model for
some other contracts in the future.
15.          The rise in the value of the point in late 1993 and early 1994 caused a rapid inflation in
fund expenditure that was only stopped when emergency measures were introduced to prevent cost
escalation. These basically consisted of placing a maximum on the monthly amount to be paid to
providers in the contracts with the county funds; nevertheless, providers continue to work beyond these
limits but the insurance funds hold the bills until they are able to pay them. The system does not really
allow any prioritizing in the contracting process and no reserves are built up to service future obligations.
At present, although local funds are expected to service obligations and absorb fluctuations in income on
their own, they do not operate any models that forecast expected income and expenditure.
Alternative Mechanism
16.          A number of options are available when developing the insurance role of the central and
county funds. For example, local funds could become subsidiaries of the central fund, acting as payment
offices to control local allocations but relying on the central fund for guidance on pricing and contracting.
Alternatively, they could act independently to contract for services. Recent legislation giving the central
organisation more control over the funds suggests a tendency towards the first course, yet the role of the
funds is still far from clear. However, the current financial position is fragile; they have no reserves,
little control over expenditures and a lack of knowledge about future liabilities. And, if they are to be
subordinate to the CHIA, they must develop basic accounting procedures so they can audit transactions
effectively and control reserves.
17.          In order for local funds to balance present and future expenditures with income, a basic
actuarial model for predicting future flows will need to be developed and introduced at the local level.
This will help funds to plan not only for the inevitable seasonal fluctuation in utilisation, but also for



-87-                                   ANNEX 5
longer-term trends such as a shift in the age structure, change in the payment system or growth in
unemployment or self-employment. It should also help funds determine the size reserves they should
maintain to cover unexpected demands on resources beyond the limited support the central fund provides.
One result of this process may be to determine whether the size of some of smaller funds is really large
enough to pool risks without having to maintain excessive risk reserves.
18.          Insurance funds generally appear to be well equipped with suitable hardware and have
basic database systems for processing payment claims. Provider claims for compensation are checked
by doctors to ensure that the providers are properly qualified and that the treatments given are appropriate
for the diagnosis. Each doctor workload is substantial and it is doubtful whether the procedure would
reveal more than the most blatant inconsistency. No checks are done by computer beyond verifying the
total bill.
Providers of Health Care
19.           The recent changes to the insurance law have had a significant impact on providers,
particularly in Tallinn where budgets have been cut by about 25%. Some continue to provide services
without being paid while others are beginning to stick to their contracted expenditure. In the medium
term, this may lead to some reduction in capacity but, without a clear plan that detail which services
should be cut back, reductions are likely to be random and potentially damaging.
20.           Hospitals possess a high degree of autonomy and, although still owned by the state or
local authorities, are free to recruit staff and manage capital development. No restriction is placed on
the amount of surplus they may earn, and they are permitted to borrow money which may be spent on
equipment or salary supplements. They are also permitted to rent part of the properties to private
companies, such as private dentists, opticians and dermatologists, and non medical services. While
income from medical-related services may be obtained tax free, they are taxed on income from non-
medical services. Also, they do not pay tax on any surplus earned, but must pay VAT on non-medical
recurrent expenditures such as food and fuel. Besides selling services to health insurance funds, hospitals
may also sell diagnostic and laboratory services to each other.
21.           The private sector is currently very small and is dominated by self-employed dentists, who
often rent facilities from polyclinics or hospitals, and provide services for patients covered by the local
funds. Private practitioners may charge more than the national tariff but the difference is paid by the
patient (this option is not open to public practitioners). Recently, a private gynaecological and obstetric
hospital opened in Tallinn using the facilities of a former public hospital; however, the demand for such
services is quite small although inevitably it will increase if the economy continues to grow rapidly and
pressures on the expenditure of the health insurance fund remain.



-88-                                     ANNEX 5
22.            Financial management at the hospital level is largely associated with preparing invoices
for reimbursement under the insurance system. There are a few examples of simple cost accounting
although most lack such a system. Where it does exist, depreciation of the site and land value is not
included since it is owned by the State, which makes no charge for its use. Many hospitals still appear
to base their budgets upon the old Soviet normative and historic patterns despite the change in the
structure of their income. The ceiling on expenditures for each hospital has, in the view of some
providers, re-established the integrated model of centralised budgets since they view it as target
expenditure rather than a maximum.  A lack of specification about what hospitals should provide
perpetuates this view.
23.            All hospitals have a system for reporting illnesses and hospital activities to the national
statistics office. Also, many now have rudimentary systems for rendering invoices and a few have
computerised systems for controlling drug stocks and patient information. All these systems are separate
although some are attempting to integrate the information generated. Some health insurance funds and
providers are presently employing computer firms to develop these systems which highlight the
importance of developing national standards to prevent money being wasted on incompatible systems.
24.            The government has committed itself to a system of family doctors and a ministerial
working group is considering the options for funding single or team practices in polyclinics. Establishing
a strong referral system, together with a system of incentives that encourages a greater emphasis on
prevention and health promotion, would appear to be vital both to control system costs and use resources
more effectively. The present system of self referral and an open ended fee-for-service system is both
costly to monitor and inefficient.
The Provider Payment System
25.            The present payment system contains many perverse incentives --such as those described
earlier-- to provide ineffective or cost-ineffective treatment. Although a reformed points system could
give considerably more central control over incentives, there may be considerable scope for enhancing
the contracting process between funds and providers; this would allow for a more precise specification
of services required and could also rationalise the work of local offices by providing, for example, block
budgets for a population group for the delivery of defined services such as specialist out-patient or
emergency care. More sophisticated contracts might specify the volume and cost of services, with quality
indicators such as waiting times; they would allow local offices and providers to negotiate different prices
from those set in the national tariff. The training of family doctors, funded in a different way from the
present point system, is a another way in which contracts for services may develop.
26.            Such developments will require training both at the central agency to set priorities and
develop a purchasing plan and then at the local level to conduct training in the development and
negotiation of contracts. It will also require some reorganisation of local funds and automating of
mundane processes to create time for funds to participate in the contracting process.  It might also be
necessary to merge some funds in order to make purchasing more efficient. It may be useful to examine
the recent experience of countries such as Netherlands, Sweden and the UK in designing purchasing
contracts.



-89-                                   ANNEX 5
Role of Competition
27.          It is the aim of the government to promote competition among health care providers as
a means of improving efficiency. However, Strengthening the purchasing role of insurance funds should
not be confused with the introduction of managed or internal market competition. While the purchasing
plans are required for competition, significant advantages might also be gained from having services to
be provided specified more precisely, thus making priorities more explicit. Competition may be
introduced but it should be noted there is little evidence that it improves efficiency, particularly among
hospitals, or that it contains costs. Evidence in the US on the effectiveness of health maintenance
organisations (HMOs) is inconclusive and it is too early to evaluate experiments in managed competition
across Europe. Competition among primary or first level health facilities may be easier to develop
although this strongly depends on a payment system that includes appropriate incentives.
28.           Estonia's small size, relative ease of travel and large supply of providers suggest that
competition among providers may increase. However, the danger of competition is that providers will
compete on the basis of price or quality of facilities or the availability of popular technology such as MRI
scanning equipment unless the patients' representatives, the insurance funds, can develop their purchasing
capabilities. The weakness of the purchaser may prove a major constraint to cost containment and to
prioritising services. Patients currently have no choices about which insurance fund to use and expansion
of purchasing competition is unlikely to be feasible in such a small country. Thus, the funds must be
strengthened so they can represent their resident population more effectively.
Key Issues
29.           The Estonian health care financing system has already undergone profound change and
considerable advances have been achieved. Capitation funding should, with some refinements allow a
more equitable distribution of resources. Also, there are many examples of innovative practice, with
providers and funds developing management systems with few resources. However if the present
financing structure is to be more efficient and responsive to the government health strategy, several issues
must be addressed.
a.     There is an urgent need to introduce some actuarial principles and models for use
by the insurance funds so they can forecast likely income and expenditure under
different scenarios. Funds already collect data on the use of health services by
age and sex and it should therefore be possible to use these data to make basic
forecasts. More sophisticated models might be introduced over time.
b.     The payment collection system is fragile and fraught with potential difficulties.
However, authorities plan to merge the collection of health with pension
contributions and this transition should help the develop an effective system.
Procedures for verifying income are required that will allow checks to be made
between declared income and expected income for different types of employment.
The experience of other countries in designing and implementing such systems
could prove useful.



-90-                                     ANNEX 5
c.     There is a lack of basic accounting procedures to manage and audit financial
flows. For example, most hospitals cost-accounting systems do not allow them
to monitor and control expenditure and implement efficiency savings. For their
part, funds have basic systems for controlling payments, but lack appropriate
methods for filtering claims in a systematic way.
d.     Local funds have neither the expertise nor the time to specify which treatments
they wish to purchase, at what price, from whom and to what quality standards.
Thus, the funds must recruit and train people with responsibilities for these
decisions. Sufficient support structures will also need to be in place, such as a
national database on clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness, as well as
expertise in protocol development. Inevitably, the local funds' authorities may
need to appraise the size and function of local funds; also, to develop more
sophisticated functions funds must either recruit more staff, pass some of the
mundane data processing to a central agency, or merge with other funds.
e.     The payment structure is full of perverse incentives to provide unnecessary or
ineffective care. In-patient stays are long and lack a referral system; this means
hospitals rely excessively on secondary specialties to teach common conditions.
30.            In addition to the main operational changes needed by the health insurance funds and with
regard to insurance-provider relation, strategic thinking is urgently needed at the national level to develop
a model health policy. Some of the issues are as follows:
a.     The status and regulation of semi-autonomous health organisations such as health
insurance funds, hospitals and polyclinics. Because of relatively little explicit
regulation, there is considerable potential for abuse.
b.     Relatively little control over high technology diagnostic equipment has led to its
purchase with little evaluation of whether it is necessary. At the same time,
certain minimally invasive procedures could be developed that considerably lower
hospital stays and allow much surgery to be done on an out-patient basis.
Regulation and evaluation of medical technology is a feature of most health
systems (even those that rely heavily on the private sector) and a national strategy
for evaluating the medical and economic value of these technologies is required
to prevent waste and promote efficient techniques.
c.     The present system for resource allocation does not account for factors such as
age and low health status and those that may lead to differential costs such as
higher transport or building costs.
d.     As with many other countries, Estonia appears to have a surplus of medical staff
such as doctors.  However, the role of doctors is changing through the
introduction of family doctors. Also, new training is needed in less invasive
surgery and the possibility for nurse substitution.  This suggests a need to
evaluate human resource requirements and develop capacity to plan effectively.



-91-                                  ANNEX 5
31.          Most of these are wider policy issues that are outside the scope of the health insurance
system but may be addressed as part of the work of the new policy and health economics unit in the
Ministry of Social Affairs (see Annex 2). The objective of the project's finance component is to provide
insurance funds with methods for increasing the efficiency of the health care system. Part of the support
will improve the technical efficiency of existing processes by introducing more sophisticated accounting
and revenue collection methods. Also, it will improve the allocative efficiency of the system by
developing tools such as contracting methods that will enable insurance funds to direct funding in a more
effective way.  The overall objective is to enable the system to use limited resources in a more
effectively. A project description is presented in the SAR under Component C. Details on the
component are available in a document available in project files entitled: Estonia's health Financing
System.






-92-                                 ANNEX 6
ESTONIA HEALTH PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
1.         The Project Implementation Plan was prepared during appraisal and agreed with the Ministry
of Social Affairs (MSA) and the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). Indicators defined at appraisal and
agreed upon with the MSA and the PCU as a basis for project monitoring and for measuring project
impact are presented in Annex 8. A Bank project supervision plan (including a Government/donors/Bank
mid-term review in 1997) is in Annex 11. This Annex presents a brief description of the implementing
departments and agencies, following the order of the project description in p. 11 of the Staff Appraisal
report. It also presents a schedule of project activities for each component, indicating critical steps.
2.         During appraisal and using PHRD preparation funds, the PCU was provided with computers
and software (including Microsoft PROJECT 6.0) and training that will enable them to undertake project
monitoring on a continued basis. The Planning Specialist in the PCU is responsible for this task and for
coordinating monitoring with the other two implementing agencies -- University of Tartu and Central
Health Insurance Agency (CHIA). The implementation schedule presented in this annex identifies main
tasks and milestones in project implementation; however, it is only a general indicative plan for the four
years of the project that was necessary for planning and budgeting activities and inputs. A day-to-day
schedule will need to be developed by the respective implementing departments and agencies, and used
by the implementors and the PCU as a dynamic tool for following up project execution.
Responsibilities for Project Administration and Implementation
3.         The project is described in detail in the SAR, pages 11 to 22. The departments and agencies
responsible for the respective components and sub-components are presented below.
A. Health System Reorientation Component: To be implemented by several departments of the MSA
as follows:
(a)  Institutional Development and realignment in MSA would strengthen the institutional
capacity of the Ministry in four areas to facilitate health reform and improve efficiency; the
following departments/units will implement the sub-components:
(i)  Health Policy and Economic Analysis Unit to be created under MSA's Chancellor;
the Director of the Unit to be appointed as a condition of loan effectiveness;
(ii) Hospital efficiency enhancement, to be coordinated by the Office of the Chancellor
and implemented by the following Department/Bureau: (1) Physical Planning
Department for facility planning and re-design and preparation of a Masterplan for
hospitals and health facilities; (2) the Health Care and Institution Department for
hospital management development; Committee of Medical Technologies for medical
equipment technology and for equipment support; (3) Department of Standards
and Licenses for Quality assurance, and accreditation of health professionals and
facilities; and (4) the Health Promotion and Prevention Group and the Health
Protection Service for Primary health care (PHC) and health protection service



-93-                                 ANNEX 6
reorientation -- including redefined functions for general practitioners, county
doctors, community and town physicians, and health protection staff.
(iii) Health Promotion and Disease Prevention to be implemented by MSA's Department
of Public Health, comprises two main activities: 1) annual funding for community-
based health promotion programs; and 2) national campaigns on promotion and
prevention related to five priority areas: anti-smoking, cardiovascular and heart
disease prevention, injury control, women's health and family planning, and
communication management.
B. Human Resources Development Component will be implemented by the University of Tartu, under
the general organization of the Project Coordinator; responsibilities for implementation will be as
follows:
(iv) Tartu's Departments of Public Health would be the implementors of strengthened
training of doctors and other health professionals in Public Health at pre-clinical,
clinical and post-graduate levels and the Department of Policlinic and Family
Medicine would implement a recently developed program of re-training doctors
family medicine (general practice);
(v) The Department of Public Health in the Tartu Medical Faculty would be
responsible for establishing a new Center for Continuing Education of health
professionals in Tallinn, at the Institute for Clinical and Experimental Medicine;
the project would support a Director and administrative staff; training programs
would be developed by relevant Departments at Tartu Medical Faculty in consultation
with other agencies (e.g., CHIA, MSA's bureaus);
(vi) Under the direction of the PCU at MSA, through the Tartu Project Coordinator,
the Department of Engineering of the University of Tartu will oversee the design,
construction and equipping of a new building for Biomedical Health Sciences at the
University of Tartu. Execution of design will be undertaken by a consultant firm,
construction will be done by a construction company, and detailed supervision of
construction, by an owner's representative firm, all to be contracted and financed
under the project, under procurement arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
C. The Central Health Insurance Agency and the Local Health Insurance Funds will implement the
component on Efficient Management of Financial Resources, under the general direction of the Health
Financing Coordinator, who will report to the PCU Director. This component will improve the technical
efficiency of the processes currently being applied by the health insurance offices regarding accounting,
revenue collection, contracting with health service providers, and reimbursement methods.
D. The Project Coordinating Unit in MSA and coordinators -- one each in University of Tartu and
in the Central Health Insurance Agency -- will be responsible for directing and monitoring overall
project implementation; a Health Reform Implementation Committee chaired by the Minister of Health
will provide policy guidance to the PCU.



-94-                                                                            ANNEX 6
0,n
a
r4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
0G
.. . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .      . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .   . . .   . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .
C5
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a   ~           ~                                      0f
0                                                                             IM      W       >I     M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4    S
S                                                                                                                              IA   a-~ 
u-
*  I -'



2
1996               1996                1997               1998                1999
ID    Task Name                                                         Start    -tu Otr 2Qtr3tTQr3Qtrr Oltr 1 |Qlr 2 3Qtr 3 Ir 41Qtr 2Qtr3|Qr   t Qlr  t 2r3 2|01r4 tQtr  X Olr 1 |Qtr 2|Qtr 3
23                 Begin tasks on Masterplan for hospfals                                - 
24                 MSA groups reviews Masterplan                           6/26/95
25                Implemrnt Masterplan for hospitals                       7/10/95
26                 OrganIze local trainng for archRects                     6/2/95        3
27                 Carny otA training of architects                         7/Y95
23            (11) Hosptal mnnagemnent developmnent                         3111/1          I ,
29                 Prepare seminars In hospital adm.                        3/1/95
30                                                                         5/16196
36                 Undertake seminars In hosp. adm.- 1995                  5/15/95
37                                                                         5/15/96
31                                                                         5/15197                                                          U.
39                                                                         5/15/96
40                Study visis to Nordic Country - 7 persons                4/1 596
41                Study visits to Nordic country -8 persons                4/1 S96
42                Prepare syllabus for later publishing                    6/15/96
43
44            (lll1 Medical equipmnent support                 -f1/2/S6                              I
45                Prepare contract for cons. In equip. matnt                1/2/95
46                 Bidding docs. and proc. of testing equtp.                1/2/95
47                Id. from 1996                                             1/2196
48                Id. for 1997                                              1/2t97                                          _
49                Id. for 1998                                              1/2/98                                                                                                  m
Task                                   Summary                    _            Roled Up Progress
Project Estonia Health Project                 Progress                                Rolled Up Task
Date: 8/9/94
Milestone                              Roled Up Mlestone K
Page 2



3
1996                1996                1997                199t                 1999
ID    Task Name                                                           Start      tlr 1 Qt 2lQtr3Gr G1tr 1' Gltr 2Gtr 3Qtr4GOtr Gtr2 Gtr3 3Gtr 4Gtr 1 Gtr 2Gtr3 G1tr 4Gtr 1Glor 2 Gtr31
60                 Coosuhtant in country                                       3/1195    1                                
61                 Undertake woi'kshop319...|
62                 Identlt & conlradt training for equip.malnl.                1/1295 _... 
63                 Run four one-week workshops - 1995S19                                                                                                                             |
6U                 Id.tor 1996                                                519                      
66                 id.f/a 1997*S19.                                                                                                                                   .
66..
67        (c) Quality Assursnce and Accreditatlon1/69':. 
69            Meeting of Cormmitee on Accredit. and QA                       11/5*11                     
69            Prep./for2cons.:1 for hosp. accred., 1 for licensing           1/16/9S5lli 
60            Two cons, on hosp. and phys. Ilcencing start                   31/5        ll.                                        
61            One short-term visIt abroad te. accred.ibcenslng               4115         [                      
62            Prep. for 1 cons. on GA-Acute hospitals                         519                    
63            One cons, on QA - Acute hospitals starts                        6/5/95         |
64            Standard Settng Revisions - lIcensing/accred.                   7/3/95           l1
66            Legisiation and procedures review by MSA                        1/1/96
66            Testing new procedures for accred. in 2 hospitalh   *          3/15S96.
63            Prep. Ior 2cons. on accredAki. of nursing & outpat.            2/15/96                       | 
69            Two cons. on accred.Aki. of nursing a outpat. visit            3/30/96                     .    1
70            One 3-pers. visit abroad re. nursing and outpat                5/15/96                           .3 
71            Reiin of standard setUn for nurses and outpat.                 4/30/96                                _Z r
Task                   __Summary                                                  Roiled Up Progress                                      a'
Prject; Estonib Health Project                   Progress                                 Rolled Up Task _
Milestone          *Rolffed U)p Milestone 
Page 3



4
1996                1996               1997                1998                1999
ID    Task Narne                                                         Start       t 1 lQtr 2Qtr 3Qtr 4Qtr I lQtr 2Qtr 3Qtr 4Qtr  lQr 2Qtr r 31ttr 41Q'r  r2r   tr4Qr 1 [tr 2tr 3
72            Testing of new procedures - selected facilitles/prof.          11/11/96
73
74             Revisons and extending new proc. to other hosps.              1/15/97                                        -
76            One con. on QA visis country                                  3115/97                    .
76            Further expanulon -Accred. and QA                             7/16/97                                                      -
77            Second vlst -QA consultant                                     8/1/97                    .
78
79            ConsolIkation fo accred/Uc/QA systems - Revislons             1/15158                                                                 -
so            Two can. on aocred. QA vsfsX the courntry                      5/1/98                    .*.                                           g*
Peer revlew of Accred.QA systems by Indep. group              9/1/98
B2            Final report on accred. and QA system                         9/22/98                    .*y .v
B4        (d) Prinary Health Care and Health Protect. Services              3116/96                    .                   I                   I
86            Fellowship se/awarding , GPs and HPS (1995)                    4/1/95
86            Fellowship selection and awarding (1996)                       41/96
I7            Fellowship selectlon and awarding (1997)                       4/1/97
Is            FellowshIp selction and awarding (1998)                        4/1/98
39            Short-T. vis. GPs and HPS to oth. countries, 1995             8/15/95
so            Short-term visits, 1996                                       8/15/96
S1            Short-term vislts,1997                                        8/15/97                    .
92            Short-term visits 1998                                        8/15/98                    .
93            Prepare T.A. on PH administration                              8/1/95
Task                                    Summary                    _            Rolled Up Progress
Projec1- Estonla Health Project                 Progress                                 Rolled Up Task
Dale. 8/9/94                                    PrgesRle   pTs
Milestone                               Roded Up Milestone K
Page 4



5
ID    Task Name                                  Start           ~ ~~~~~~~ ~~196 1996                     1997                11993               1999
ID    Task Narne                                                _       Start      Inr 1 lOtr 2Otlr 3Qtlr 4|atr 1 lol, Qr2Qatr3Qar 4|QIr 1 Qtr, 2Otrf 3II ir4rQtr 1O lr2tr4  OtIr 4|tr 1  r210tr 3
14            PH administration cons. In country. 1995                    11120/95
S5            Id. for 1996                                                1 1R0/96
Se            Id for 1997                                                 111097                                                          3                                    I
sr            20% of offCe equip for CDs and GPs procured and Instalie      6/1I95
S6            Id. for an additonal 60% of equipment                        1/15t96
S5            Id. for remaining 20% of equipment                           1/15197                                          -
100           KIts for GPa Procured and deliyered - 20%                    3/15195
101           Id. for additonal 25% of kIts                               3Y15196 
102           Id. for additional 35% of kits                               3/15197                                              -
103           Id. for remaining 20% of kits                                3/15/98                                                                  -
104
105   A.2. Health Prorolion and Disease Prevention                          112/96 r                                                    _
106       Establish HealKh Promotion Committee                             1/3195 * 130
107       Appoint staff to assist committee (1 secretary)                   2/11/95
103       Funding management PC-software tested                             2/1i 95
109       Equipment Installed                                              2/15195
110       Announce and Launch Campaigns                                     1/2/95
111       Prepare application form                                          2/1/95
112       Focal areas ror grants accepted                                   211195
113       Granis announcement made and proposals Invited                    6/1/95
114       Due date for submission of proposals                              9/1t95                    .
116       Selection of applicants                                           9/2195                                                                                                  ON
Task                                   Summary                    _            Rolled Up Progress
Project Estonia Health Project                 Progress                                Rolled Up Task
Date 819194
Milestone                              Roied Up Milestone 3
Page 5



6
1996               1996                1997               1998                1999
ID    Task Name                                                         Start     Otr  Qtr 21Qlr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr 1 Olr 2|Qtr 3 Qlr 4Qlr 1 Qr 2tr 31tr4Qlr  trtr3 rtr l |Qr201r3
116       Short-term visits completed (2 trips x 2 persons x 2weeks)       12/15/95                  I
117       Plan for allocation or grants comrpleted                         12/31/95 6131
113       Agreements reached and agreemnrt forms prepared                    111/S6
119       Fst final repors, report forms prepared                            1/11/97                                     t l/
120
121       Prrep    ppaca ton rom                                            21/96 
122       Focl areas forgr nbt accepted                                     2/196 
123       Grants announcm t made and propoas kwted                          611/96
124       Due date for submission of proposals                              9t1/96
125       Seectlon of applicants                                            9/29
126       Short-term v1si completed (2 trips x 2 persons x 2weeks)        12/15/96                                      |
127       Plan for allocaion of gris completed                            1V31/96                                       * 12t31
123       Agreernents reached arnd agreement forms prepared                  1/1/97
129       Fk-st rfn reports, report forms prepared                           111/98                                                         +1
130
131       Prepare application form                                         2V1/97
132       Focal areas for grants accepted                                  2V1/97
133       Grants announcement made and proposals kvwted                     6/11/97
134       Due date for submIssIon of proposals                               9/1/97
136       SelectIon of applicants                                           9/2/97
136       Short-term visits completed (2 trips x 2 persons x 2weeks)      12/15197
137       Plan for allocation of grants completed                          12131t97                                                             12131
Task                                   Summary                                 Rolled Up Progress
Project: Estonia Heafth Project                 Progress                               Rolled Up Task
Nate 8/9/94 
Milestone                              Rolled Up Milestone 9
Page 6



7
1996               1996                1997                1996               1999
ID    Tatk Narne                                   Starr     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Qlr 11 10tr 210tr 310tr 4 ttr I10|Qr 210lr 3|QIr 41t lr  Qtr_210(r 310tr 41Qlr I |IrC |I 1l   lrt|l |l 
ID    Task Namne                                                        Start      9nQrQrOrOr   t2t3QrOn    t2l3t4t   QrQr   t4ttOrOi
136       Agreements reached and agreement forms prepared                    1/1/98
139       Firt final reports, report forms prepared                         111198                                                          *1/1
140
141       Prepare appation form                                             2/1/98
142       Focal areas for grants accepted                                   2/1/98                                                             |
143       Grants announceent mnade and proposals hwlted                     6/1/98
144       Due date for submission of propoals                               9/1/98
146       Selection of applicants                                           92/98
14U       Short-term vIsits compkted (2 ttips x 2 persons x 2weeks)      1 15/98 
147       Plan for alocation of grants cornpleted                         12/31/98                                                                                 121
14S       Agreements reached and agreement forms prepared 1/1/99                                                                                                                 o
14J       First rinal reports, report forms prepared                        1/1W/99                                                                                1/1
160
161_
162   B. HUMAN RESOt "  ES COMPONENT                                        1/2/95
163
164   B.1 Strengthening Department of Public Heahth                         1/2/96                   I
165       Select Ion among quallfied candidates                             1/2195
166       Prepare actions for appointments at Tartu's PH Dept.             2/27/95
167       Appointment of Chair In Health Economis                          3/27/95
163       Appoint lecturers In heaKh economics                             3/27/95                                                                                                Z
169       Appointment of lecturer In health management                     3/27/95
Task                                    Summary                                Rolled Up Progress
Project: Estonia Health Project                Progress                                Rolled Up Task
Date: 8/9/094
Milestone                               Rolled Up Milestone
Page 7



5.   C    C    C       U    W ~C                     (
I                                                      S
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
1A ~~            ~             ~            ~            ~            9 
a                                             0~~~~~~~......................................................     .......
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                a'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
a.                    ft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  & ~  ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     ~    L
.......   ..... .....  ....................................
fl  C  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..................-...................
4' 'II;   'Ii''  iii~~~~~~
0~
cn 
0 0 C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
4'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j;
ft  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~~~~~~~L
.. .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .  . .. . .. . . . . . . . ..   .. . .. . . . . .. .   . . . . . . . . .. . .. . .. . .. . . . . . . . .. .
9 XHNNV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I. 



-102-                                ANNEX 6
0    - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .. .. ... .. ..... ...... . .   . . . . .. .
00
CY
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t D 
I- -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6-
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
0  -         ~~~~~~~                                                                 0  0L-nF
-                                                                   (n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2t
E,    Cb                                             r-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
CA C4 C4                       Jc~I
"7m                                        m o        e
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ -t             t o



10
1995               1996              1997               1998       |       1999
ID   Task Name                                                        Start       n |Qr2Qtr3Qtr 4|Qtr I l|Qr2t tr 41tr I lQtr 2Qtr 3|Qtr 4OQtr 1r2Qr Qt4!tr I   |lr21t, 3
204       Prepare for 3-mordh study programs (topics below)              5/11597
206       Undertake one-three-month study prog - epidemilogy              8/1/97
206       Id.for health care managerment                                 7/1 5/97
207       Prepare for one-week study tours (hi topics beklw)              6/1/97
203       Undertake I two-week study progr. -epiUmig                     8/1 Y97
209       Id. for envronmerta health                                     8/15/97
210       Id. for healh promtIon                                         8/15Y97
211       Fourth Year                                                     1/2/95
212       Prepare for two MPH fellowshps                                  411/98
213       Unxertake MPH studies -                                         9/1/98
214       Prepare for three-month study progams - Topics below            Y1/98
216       Undertake3-mordh study program on occ. health                  81/98 51o
216      Id. for health education                                        8/17/98
217       Prepare for two-week study progrs - topics below               4/15/98
213       Undertake 2-week study progr. -PH curricula dev.               8/1598
219      Id. for heafth management                                       8/17/98
220      Id. for Health Education                                        8/17/98
221       Three-week T.A. to faciliate further developments              6/15/98
222       Equipment and textbook procuremrent                             1/2195
223       Equlpment procurement - 1995                                   415/956
224       Text-book purchase, joumalssubscriptions - 1995                4/17/95                                                                                              >
226       Equlpment purchase - 1996                                      2/25/96 
Task                                  Summary                ~               Rolled Up Progress
Project Estonla Health Project                Progress                              Rolled Up Task
Dale: 8/9/94
Milestone                             Rotled Up Milestone 0
Page 10



11
1995               1996                1997                199S               1999
ID    Task Name                                                         Start       r I10tr 210tr 3Qtr4  Qtr I10tr 21Qtr 3 4ttr4!,|r 2|QIr 3|Qtr 4trQtr 1|Qtr 20tr 3|Qtr tr  101r 210tr3
226       Text-book purchase, ournats'subscriptions - 1996                  2/26/96
227       EquIpment purchase - 1997                                         2/15/97
228       Text-book purchase. jurnalssubscriptlons- 1997                    2/17/97
228       Equipment purchase -1998                                          215/98 
230       Text-book purchase, ,umals'subscrptlons - 1998                    216/916
231
232   B.2. Center for Continuing Education                                   112135
233       Center Director Selected and In posiion                            1/2/95
234       AdministnrUve staff selected and In position                       1/2/95
236       Contract cons. for ptanning refurbishing                           1/2/95
236       Consultant In positon                                            2/15/95
237       Undertake and complete refurbishing                               4/1195       _
_  _0.                                                ,                   :                 o
238       Training courses for heanh prof (1995: 7%)                        9/1/95
239       Id. (19: 36% of courses completed)                                3/1/96
240       Id. (1996 - second part)                                         9115/96
241       Id. 1997, 40% of courses completed -first part                    311/97
242       Id. 1997 - 55% of courses completed- second part                 9/15/97
243       Id.1998 - 87% of courses compieted - first part                   331/98
244       Id. 1998 - 100% of courses completed                                5/98
246                                                                    ....'
246   B.3. Construct Tartu Blomedicurn Building                             1a2
247       PCU staff and procurement specs. in position                       1t2/95
Task                                   Summary                      M          Rolled Up Progress
Project. Estonia Heath Project                 Progress                                Rolled Up Task
Dale: 8/994
Milestone                              Rolled Up Milestone
Page I1



so   -4o 
rn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
5                                                                           W
a  -41  a  a~~~~~~ r        c 0  c o m 
1  a .-       w                                                              CT
c  c ~     2.    gCaE
10. ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   U 
....................................    .........................................  ..................   ....................
Q
* ii                  -.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!
................................    ...................... .....................................U.....
-m  m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
2
K>  -                                                   12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.................. .......................................................
II  I.I!.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
9 X3NEl



U-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4-
r-  0   ~     0 
m~~
U                       C                   0~~~~~~~
j                                             m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
m~~~~
0 
C')
-U~~~~~~~t
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
-rn
Ca  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
!-< ~ ~      ~       ~ ~             
0                                                                       2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
0~
,C.)
C~C-
TI 
.. .. . .   . .. . .  . .. . .. .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . ..  .. .. .   . . .. . .. . .. . .. .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. .
-                 
4J 0
9 XaNxv                         -901-



8:38 AM 8/94 1
1995          1996          1997          1998          1999
ID   Task  Narne                                                                                              |I |I r  | Ir   t r     I tr | Ir   t r   t r  | Ir   tr |tr    tr I  r  | Ir  r|I  trI |r Ir   |I r  r|I
_ _  _HLTHFIN.MPP_
I        I Central Health Insurance Agency & Component Management Support
2             1.1 Component Startup and Organizatlon                                                         Fumfture,Vehicies,Central Insurance Computers & Softwa ra,Central Ins Equl
3             1.2 Component Coordination & Operation                                                                                                                Vehick Maint & O
4             1.3 Computer Maintenance                                                                                                                              Computer Mainte
-6                                                                                                                       .                                          C
a        2 Health Finance Comnponent. Sub Component #C2, insitutional Support for Central Insurance Agency                             _ 
7            2.1 Technical Assistance
6                 2.1.1 Actuarial Planning
_                 2.1.2 Yr I Actuarial Planning (Conduct Initlal Actuarial Analysis & Develop Models)         Actuary TA
10                2.1.3 Yr. 2 Actuarial Planning (Assist Annual Assessment & Capacity Building)
11...' 
12                2.1.4 Health Finance System Planning
13                    2.1.4.1 Yr. 1 Systems Planning (Combine Service Delivery, Service Demnand & Revenue Models)  iealth Pla ner
14                    2.1.4.2 Yr2 Systems Planning (Update and Rerne Planning and Performance Analysis Models)                  Health Planner
16                    2.1.4.3 Yr3 Systems Planning (Llmited T alnlng and Advisory Support)                                             * Health Planner
16                2.1.6 Financlal Management
IT                    2.1.5.1 Yr. I Financial Managemient (Central Program Operational Policy and Procedures)
13                    2.1.5.2 Yr I Health Insurance Operatonal Assessment & Quality Control                                      inanclal Opns Spec
13                2.1.6 Revenue Collection
20                    2.1.6.1 Yr 1 Revenue Colleclion Organization Development
21                     2.1.6.2 Yr. 2 Revenue Collection Organization Development (Follow up Appraisal and System En        I C 1i ctlon Spec[O.671
22                     2.1.6.3 Yr I Revenue Collction Systems (Elementary Systems Development)              I      lectlon  pec 0tz
23                     2.1.6.4 Yr. 2 Revenue Collection Systems (Systems Enhancement)                                       C, II tction Spec[0 71
24
Task                                   Summary           IVRolled Up Progress
Project:                               Progress                               Rolled Up Task
Dale: 8/9/94
Milestone                              Rolled Up Milestone C
Pae 1



8,38 AM 8/9i94 2
1996         1996          1997          1998          1999
10   TaskName                                                                                            itr IrtItr tr lr I  lI trter ir ir i r  tir irItr ir; I irIr It
26                2.1.7 Accounting Methods Development
26                    21.7.1 Yr. I Accounting and Auditn Tralnin & Methods Deveopment r                         ounl   S
27                    2.1.7.2 Out Yr Accounting & Audding Systems Trainin Curriculum Enhancement              _         |     ounting Spec
2t            2.2 Short Term Fellowships (34 Month)
29                2.2.1 Fhical Maagement FelbwshIp                                                                               hip
30                2.2.2 Ac-tuaral Planni  Fellowship (Donor Iem)                                                          Fe       p
31            2.3 Short Term Study Tours
32                2.3.1 Insaumnce Fund Managefrent Tour
33                2.3.2 Fucal Mawgemenr Tour                                                                   Study 1ur
34                2.3.3 Revenue Colction Management Tour                                                     St    Tot r
36                2.3.4 Relmbursement Systems Tour                                                                            Study Tour
36            2.4 Central Health Fund Management CapacIy hiprovement                                   PON
37                2.4.1 National Sickness Fund Budget Planning and Execution Managemenvt Capacity      *   I anclal p1 is Spec
38                2-4.2 National (Centralized) Sickness Fund Reserve Asset Management Support                  * Res rve Fund TA
39                2-4.3 NatIonal Health Service Purchasing Polley & Procedure Develpment                            talth Economlst                           -
40                                                                    -
41
42       3 Health Finance Component, Subcomponent #3, Local Provider 4-ealth Insurance Interface
43            3.1 kiiplemewnt Accounting & Management Systefms 
44                3.1.1 Health Fund Management and AccounUng Policy and Procedure Docunentation             Dca Fun   nalydl2l
46                3.1.2 Heafth Fund Managemnent & Acctg Trainin Program Design and Develpment               Local Fu  Analyst,Course Developer
46                3A1.3 Conduct Local Fund Management and Accouring ConcepA Trainin                          Local FL I Awlyd,Course Developer
47                3.1.4 Semi Annual Atumun Trainig I                                                                          *  Reg Followup,Cenler for Continulng Education Reb
43                3.1.5 Sermi Annual Autumnn Traini  2                                                                                      *Reg Follow up21,Center for Contilnul  rX
49                3.1.6 Semi Annual Autumn Training 3                                                                                                     *  Reg Followup[21.Ce    a
Task                                  Summary                                Roled Up Progress
Project                              Progress                               Rolled UpTask
Date: /9/94
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone  )
Page 2



8 38 AM 8/9/94 3
199C          1996    ]    1997           19987_
ID    Task Name                                                                                             tr Tr    r      | I r I tr | Ir   tr Ir ir |tIr Ir | Ir | Ir |Ir JIr|IIr  EL r
60                3.1.7 Acquire Local Fund Computers
61                     3.1.7.1 Procure Comptiers                                                                 qulpnle   nalyst[0.26JProcurement Anslyst[0.61.Local Fund Computers
12                     3.1.7.2 Conrigure and Test Computers                                                      qulpre  Analyst
13                     31.7.3 Install Computers                                                                             rt
64                     3.1.7.4 TraIn Users to Operate Computers                                                   User S pport
66                3.1.1 hirplement Comfputerized Local Fund Managemnent Systern
66                     3.1.8.1 Local Fund Automated Financial Management System Training Development         ao rse Dev loper
67                31.9 Ongoing Local Fund Management System User Support                                           _                                               User Supporl(0.21,L
60                3.1.10 Relmbursement Management Developrnent
61                     3.1.10.1 Yr 1 Reimbursement Management                                                     Healt Svc Rehnburse Spec
40                     3.1 .10.2 Yr 2 Reimbursement Management                                                             * Health Svc Reimbure Spec
41                     3.1.10.3 Intal Electronic Enrollment Validation Support System (for Providers)                            Provider Opna AnaiystProvider Analyst
62
63
64                3.1.11 Heath Finance and Management Training intitute Development & Operation                                                                                          5
66                     3.1.1 1.1 Acquire Training Facildies  -                                                2
66                    3.1 11.2 Acquire Training Equipment (conduct procurements)                                  Procu cmnt Analydt Equipment Analyst,Training Equipmnent
67                    3. 1. 11.3 Acquire Training Program Technical Assistance (locate and contract)          lrocure ent Analyst[0.751,Cornponent Coordinator(O)
It                     3.1. 1 1.4 Training Program Development TA ( Building Training Program Staff Skills)         urn tulurn Dev.10.61J,Course Developer[41
es                     3.1 11.5 Ongoing Training Program Staff Support (Estonian)                                                                Course Developer[4]
70            3.2 Local Fund -Provider Service Contract Negotiation Support System Development & Training
71                3.2.1 Develop Local Fund Contract Negotiation Support System                                              ealth Economist          .
72                3.2.2 Develop and Conduct Training on Contract Negotiatlon System                                          Health Economlst[0.71,Course Developerq2j                  z
73                3.2.3 Provider Facility & Operations Management knprovement Support (Install PHARE syste    *_
74                     3.2.3.1 Define Provider Demand /Need flo PHARE Developed Management System             r vi er Analysis TA[0C.1,Provider Analyst
Task                                   Summary                                 Rolled Up Progress
DatPe:o /9/94                          Progress                                Rolled Up Task
Milestone                              Rolled Up Milestone
Page 3



8 38 AM 89/94 4
1996          1996          199T          1998           1999
ID    Task Name                                                                                            _ r  i[ r  | Ir  | Ir  | tr |r I| {r  | Ir  | Ir  | Ir  | Ir  | Ir  | Ir  | Ir  | Ir  | Ir  | Ir  | Ir  | Ir | Ir
75                     3.2.3.2 Plan and Schedule Management System Installation                                    der Analysis TAJ0.25j,ProvIder Analyst
Ti                     3.2.3.3 Conrduct Managenwent System Installation and Training                                                           Provider Analys&[21
77                3.2.4 Provider Operations Analysis and Management Assessmnent Procedure Documentatlon(l
To                     3.2.4.1 Local Staff Provider Operatlons Analysis & Procedure Documentation (If not done by PH  Di  er Analysql1S15
is                     3.2.4.2 Provider Operations Analysis TA (Assess PHARE Piklt and support Tralning & Installatio  o hr Analysis TA1O.671
s0                3.2.5 ProMkder Operations Analpis and Management Assessment Training Development               r r  ulum Dev.t1.31
81                3.2.6 Ongoing Managemrent System User Support (By Central Support Group)                                                                           User Support,Loc
.,..,121.....
Task                                    Summary                                Rolled Up Progress
Project                               Proress                                 Rolled Up Task__
Date: U9/94
Miestonre                               Roled Up Milestone   )
Page 4



838 AM U/94 5
1996          1996          199t          1998         1999
ID   Task Name                                                                                           tr t  r  r  t "     | " i    tr |t  tr r  i      t | ,.     |  Ir | , 
t4       4 C1(b) Enhance Revenue Collection
38            4.1 Sickness Fund Enrollmewnt System Enhancement
I6                4.1.1 Develop Program Public Information Capacity                                      *         ublic Infor TA
IT                4,1.2 Publish New Enterprke Flnance and Accounting Record Retention Law                     ii ntor Spec
Is                4.1.3 Support Develop of Integrated Local Social Insurance Register                                 Local Fund AnslystrB161
Is                4.1.4 Emnployer Registration System Refinemenvt                                                ColcIon Spec[O.21
90            4.2 Local Fund Collection Support Sytern_
31                4.2.1 Under- reporting Enterprise Screening System                                                       Collection Spec[O.081
t2                4.2.2 Enterprise Financil Record Inspectorate Program Establishment                            ollecbn Spec 6o.6
93                4.2.3 Self-Employed Regisotlaon Management System                                                   Collctlon specrO.171
t4                4.2.4 Automated Enterprie Fee Reporting System                                                            Collectlion Spec[O 041
16            4.3 Provider Financial Management trnprovernent Support                                      _                                      *
1e                4.3.1 Develop Financial Management and Accounting Policy and Procedure Documentation       A  ounting Spec[1.61
97                4.3.2 Acquire Financial Management & Accounting System Training Technical Assistance           ounting Spec
St                4.3.3 Financial Management and Accounting System Training Program Development                  Curriculum Dev.
55                4.3.4 Initial Group Startup Trainhg                                                      Reg nal Training,Staff Time Lost for Educ.
100               4.3.5 Second Group Startup Tralning                                                                 *  Regional Tralning,Statf Tine Lost for Educ.
101               4.3.6 Ongoing Support of Provider Usems                                                                   Provider Suppt 1[31
102
103               4.3.7 Computerized Provider Accounting Systern tmpleremntatlon                           _                        I
104                   4.3.7.1 Regional Training of Computerized Financial Management System Users
106                   4.3.7.2 Computerized Financlal Management System Installation                                 se'r Support[2l                                                 X
106                   4.3.7.3 Ongoing FIancW Management System User Support (Hot Line Support)                                                         eUser Support'
107
103                   4.3.1.4 Acquire HospItal and Clinic Computers
Task                                   Surmary                               Roled Up Progress
Proect:                               Progress                               Rokd Up Task
Date: 8/j9/4UpTa
Miestone         *                    Roled Up Milestone 0C)
Page 5



8 38 AM 8/9t94 6
1996          1996           1997          1998          1999
ID   Task Name                                                                                               tr  tr  1 Ir       tr tr I  tr r Ir  t  r Ir  tr     I    t I tr r   r I t  tr
109                         4.3.7.4.1 Procure Computers                                                               ocurement Analystlo.51.Equlpment Analyst[O.261
110                         4.3.7.4.2 Conrigure end Test Computers                                                    Equipment Analystl31
111                         4.3.7.4.3 Instal Hospdtal & Clnc Computers                                                     Equipment Anaiysl[21.Installation Contractorl2J.HospItal & Clinic
112                         4.3.7.4.4 Train Users to Operate Computers mUer Support!1.6I
Task                                    Summary              _                  Roled Up Progress
Dae: 8/994                             Progress                                Roled Up Task
MLesone                                 Roled Up Milestone  >
Pae 6



-113-                                               ANNEX 7
ESTONIA HEALTH PROJECT
PLANNED PROCUREMENT PACKAGES AND SCHEDULES
|                  Milestone Dates
Amount
Procurement Packages         ($ million)     Method'      Tender       Awarding      Delvery    Completion
(Base Costs)
WORKS                                  12. I
1. Tartu Biomed., Construction         12.1          ICB          4/96         11/96        10/98     12/98
EQUIPMENT                              8.81
1. Office Equipment                    1.51
Xerox, fax, telephones and other      0.48           ICB          6/95         10/95        12/95     3/96
communications equipment
Office Equipment                       0.5           ICB          6/96         10196        12/96     4/97
Teaching Materials                     0.23          DC           5/95          7/95         8/95     2/96
Fumiture: six packages of              0.3            LS          1/97         3/97          5/97     8/97
US$50,000
2. Computers and Software              2.34
First Batch                            1.24          ICB          8/95          1/96         3/96     5/96
Second Batch                           1.1           ICB          8/96          1/97         3/97     5/97
3. Med. Test and Lab. Equipment       4.96
Medical Equipment                      0.65          LIB          10/95        2/96          4/96     7/96
Testing Equipment                      0.63          LIB          7/97         11/97         1/98     4/98
Laboratory Equipment                   3.68          LIB          10/96        12/96         2/97     4/97
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   2.81
Building Design                        0.84           SL          7/94         01/95         5/95     7/95
Construction Supervision               0.16           SL          7/95         10/95        12/95      10/98
Technical Assistance2                  1.81           SL          5/95          7/95         9/95     1/96
ICB = Intemational Competitive Bidding
SL   = Selection from short-listed firms
DC  = Direct Contact
LIB  = Limited Intemational Bidding
LS  = Local Shopping
2/     To be provided by bilaterals and the Govemment.



-114-                                 ANNEX 8
ESTONIA HEALTH PROJECT
INDICATORS FOR PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION
1.         It is important to measure project implementation progress and effective utilization of the
resources to be provided through the loan. Moreover, one of the project objectives is to improve the
quality of the health services. It is therefore appropriate to develop mechanisms to monitor and evaluate
progress toward better health conditions. The project would support both efforts: (a) project monitoring
and evaluation; and (b) establishing the basis for improved measurement of the health situation. Process
indicators are proposed for evaluating project implementation.  Tracers for evaluating the effect of
preventive programs and improvements in health service delivery are also suggested. Project monitoring
indicators are milestones extracted from the project implementation plan. The Project Coordination Unit
will be responsible for monitoring project activities on a day-to-day basis and for maintaining the
monitoring system for the project.  It will also assist relevant units of the MSA in conducting or
commissioning data collection and studies to evaluate health prevention programs.



-1 15-
ANNEX 8
ESTONIA
HEALTH PROJECT
ACHIEVEMENT OF KEY AND ROUTINE ACTIVlTIES, FOR EACH
PROJECT COMPONENT AND COMPONENT-SPECIFIC INDICATORS OF
PROJECT PROGRESS AND IMPACT
ComponenV        Indicator        Measurement        % of  Date or  Type
Subcomponent                                          Goal frequency  P,I
Key activities:   Fulfillment of key _No. of key activities  xx  Quaterly    P
each component activities (%)    scheduled for initiation
(starting date)   within the period.
%initiated within
proposing starting date  90
% Progressing           80
satisfactorily
Achievement of  _No. of key activities  xx  Quarterly    P
key activities (%) scheduled for completion
(completion date with the period
-%completed as planned    80
Routine activities: Achievement of _Total number of routine    xx  Quarterly    P
each component routine activities activities scheduled for
(starting date)   initiation during the period
% initiated within the  80
proposed date
_% progressing           75
satisfactorily
Achievement of   No. of routine activities   Quarterly    P
routine activities scheduled for completion
(completion date) during the period     xx
%completed as planned    75
Total Activities   Total Production _Total No. of products per  Quarterly    P
component                xx
-%proceeding             80
satisfactorily
IBRO  Loan     Disbursements  _ disbursed over        over Quarterly    P
Execution                      planned                 80%



-1 16-
ANNEX 8
Component/       Indicator        Measurement        % of  Date or  Type
Subcomponent                                          Goal frequency  P,I
A. Heatth
system
reorientation:
Al. SA
Institutional Dev.
and Realignment
A.. (a) Health   Unit staff    Copies of appointment   100%  30-Jun-95   P
policy and     recruited      letters sent to Bank
economic
analysis
First annual   Letter from MSA to Bank  100%  Dec., 1995   P
consolidated
health budget
approved
Study on health  Satisfactory completionof 100%  31-Mar-96   P
national priorities study
using burden of
diseases
methodology                           .
A. 1.(b) Hospital  Two training  Training evaluation results favora Before  P
efficiency     programs: for 15                       ble   Dec.1,
enhancement   administrators                                1995
and 15 architects
on hospital
planning/
physical
functional
programming
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Medical        As inspected by        Under Before
equipment well  independent survey    10%fai July 1997
maintained                            lures



-1 17-
ANNEX 8
A.1.(c) Quality   Hospitals     Accreditatlon review by   50%   Before     I
assurance and   accredited     independent experts      of    July 31,
accreditation    folowing                               hospit 1997
internationally                         als
recognized
standards
Component/       Indicator         Measurement         % of  Date or  Type
Subcomponent                                            Goal frequency  P,l
Health          Licensure reviewed by    50%   Before
Professionals   independent experts     of    Dec. 15,
licenced                                h.prof. 1997
following
internationally
recognized
standards
Quality         Results of testing in at      Before      P
assurance      least 5 hospitals              Dec. 15,
system tested                                 1997
A1. (d) PHC and Counties       Tracers: Counties'       50%   Before
Health Protection functioning   epidemiological profiles   of    Dec.15,
Services        efficiently under completed, GPs with new  counti 1996
Reorientation    new health     kits, HP agents retrained   es
administration                          meeti
system                                  ng
80%
of
tracer
A.2. Health     Nutrition       Formal approval by MSA   100%  Dec.,1995   P
Promotion and   guidelines
Disease        completed
Prevention
Pilot HProm./Ed. Anti-smoking/Family    1 00%  Dec. 1995    P
Centers        Planning Pilot Centers
established    established, first two, one
in Tallinn, one in Tartu                  _



-l118-
ANNEX 8
Age and sex     Using data from Natlonal  M 45  1998       I
prevalence of   Health Behavior Study,    % F
everyday        compare with 1992 rates:  19%
smokers         Males, 49%, Females, 20%
PassTve smoking Comparisons with 1992   M 50  1998         l
data: males 819%, females  % F
50%                     30%
Age-standardized Using data from Natlonal  80 per 1998
ischaemic heart Mortality Stat. Infarction
disease death   register, compare with
rate, 0-64 years  1990 rate of 99 per
100,000 pop.
Component/       Indicator         Measurement         % of  Date or  Type
Subcomponent                                            Goal frequency  P,/
Daily salt intake  Using data from National  13-15 1998
Nutrition Prioritizing  gr.
Survey, compare with 15-
20 gr. In 1990
Daily diet fat    39 to 43% of energy In    35-   1998     I
intake          1990                    39%
Daily           16 mg. in 1990          25    1998I
consumption of                          mg.
fiber          I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _
Abortion rate    157.7 per 100 live births in 125   1998
1993                    per
Contraceptive   23% in 1992 (data from    35%   1998
rate           Family and Fertility Study)             X
Breast feeding up 27.3% in 1992 (National   50%   1998     I
to 4 months    Statistics)
Immunization    70-80% in 1992 (National  80-   1998       T
coverage       Statistics)              90%



-119-
ANNEX 8
Mortality due to  M 117.2 per 100,000 pop, 105/  1998
injuries and   F 35.0 (from Trauma    31
polsoning      Register)
(including
sulcides)
B. Human
Resource
Development
B.1.           Creation of new  Number of positions filled 95:6  Impl.Plan    P
Strengthening   positions and                        '96:4
the Dept. of   appointment of                        '97:2
Public Health   lecturers made                       '98:1
according to
implementation'
plan
ComponentV    Indicator          Measurement        % of  Date or  Type
Subcomponent                                         Goal hrequency  P,J
Peer review of   Assessment of quality of  Specd 1997
PH Dept.       studies and nature and    Ic
quality of collaboration    goals
with national and county  TBD
authorities (review by peer
PH Dept. in Nordic
C Country)
B.2. Center for  %satisfactory in  Evaluation forms for each  At    1996,  P
Continuing     courses'       course                least  1997,
Education      evaluation                            80%   1998
B.3.           %disbursements Actual disbursement     60% 1997         P
Construction of               performance            100%  1998
Biomedicum
Building
Critical Path  Status of critical path  100%  Bi-yearly    P
managed on a   included in bi-yearly
continued basis  reports to Bank



-120-
ANNEX 8
C. Efficient   % patients wlth  Using health funds'data,  25%   1995    P
nanagement of invaild health    compare with 1994 %   15%   1996
financial      enrollment docs.                       10%   1998
resources
% enterprises    Using health funds' data,  85%   1995  P
and self-      compare wlth 1994 %    95%   1996
employed                              98%   1997
registered
Install provider  Accounting system   15%   1995        P
accounting     functioning In Local Funds 60%   1996
system                                95%   1997
%of Providers   Staff of Local Funds  15%   1995
trained        trained In satisfactory  85%   1996
manner                 90%   1997
% of Users     Staff from health service   15%   1995
trained        units (hospitals,etc) trained 60%   1996
in a satisfactory manner  95%   1997






ANNEX 9
ESTONIA HEALTH PROJECT
Selected Project Cost Summary Tables






-1 21-
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 9
ESIQONA
HEALTH PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
%     % Total
(EEK Million)              (USS Million)       Foreign   Base
Local   Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. Design                                 1.69      9.57     11.26    0.13     0.71     0.84       85       3
2. Construction                          65.69     96.64    162.33    4.90     7.21    12.11       60       42
3. Supervision                            0.94      1.20      2.14    0.07     0.09     0.16       56        1
Subtotal Civil Works                       68.32    107.41    175.73     5.10    8.02    13.11       61       45
B. Equipment
1. Office Equipment & Fumiture/a          7.48      9.67     17.15    0.56     0.72     1.28       56       4
2. Computer Hardware & Software              -    31.32      31.32       -    2.34      2.34      100        8
3. Laboratory Equipment                   2.47     46.85     49.31    0.18     3.50     3.68       95       13
4. Testing Instruments                       -      8.44      8.44       -    0.63      0.63      100        2
5. Medical Kits for GPs                      -      8.71      8.71       -    0.65      0.65      100       2
Subtotal Equipment                          9.94    104.99    114.93    0.74     7.83     8.58       91      29
C. Teaching Materials /b                    1.23      1.88      3.11    0.09     0.14     0.23       61        1
D. Technical Assistance
1. Foreign TA                                -    21.83      21.83       -    1.63      1.63      100       6
2. Local TA                               2.46         -      2.46    0.18        -    0.18         -       1
Subtotal Technical Assistance               2.46     21.83     24.29    0.18     1.63     1.81       90       6
E. Training Ic                             14.74      7.80     22.54     1.10    0.58     1.68       35       6
F. Fellowships                                 -      8.06      8.06       -    0.60      0.60      100       2
G. Local Health Promotion Programmes /d    14.98         -    14.98      1.12       -    1.12         -       4
Total Investment Costs                      111.67    251.97    363.64     8.33    18.80    27.14      69       93
It. Recurrent Costs
A. Staff Salaries/e                         13.62        -    13.62      1.02       -    1.02         -        3
B. Miscellaneous Costs/f                    5.91         -      5.91    0.44        -    0.44         -       2
C. Maintenance /g                           6.81         -      6.81    0.51        -    0.51         -       2
Total Recurrent Costs                        26.34         -    26.34      1.97       -    1.97         -        7
Total BASELINE COSTS                         138.01    251.97    389.98    10.30    18.80    29.10     65      100
Physical Contingences                      13.80     25.20     39.00     1.03    1.88     2.91       65      10
Price Contingencies                        18.51     14.88     33.39    1.38     1.11     2.49       45       9
Total PROJECT COSTS                          170.33    292.04    462.37    12.71    21.79    34.51     63      119
\a Includes training and audio-visual equipment
\b Books, journals, and mass media materials
\c Short-term visits, foreign and local training, workshops, and seminars
\d Competititve awards given to community-based groups for health programs.
\e Includes staff salaries while on short-term visits, training, and fellowships
\f Various costs needed for project implementation.
\g Includes maintenance of equipment and infrastructures



ESTONIA
HgALTH fROJEI
ExpendAture Accounts by Components - Base Costs
(USS Million)
Humnm Resources Dvelopmnent
Strengthening
Health System          the                                        Efficient Managerent of
Reorientation      Departments   Creation                           Financial Resources
Institutional    Health    of Public      of a     Construction of                    Central
Development  Promotion    Health and    Canteror "  the University       Local         Health
and         and        Polyclinic   Continuing        of         Provider/Health   Insurance    Project               Physical
Realignment   Disease     and Family     Health   Tartul8lomedtcum     Insurance      Agency    Coordination            Contingencies
in the USA    Prevention   Miedcine    Education      BuIlding         Interface   Development      Unit      Total     %    Amount
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
I Design                                               -                   -                         0.84                      -                  -    0.84     100      008
2 Construcion                                     -          -              -       0.09             1202                                              1211      100     1 21
3 Supervsions                                                                          -               A016                    -            -           0.16     100     002
SubtotalaCiviWorks                                  -          -              -       009              1302                -           -                 1311      100     131
B. Equipment
1 Ofice Equipmrent &Furnitre la                034        0.02           0-04       0 09   -         0.66             0.07        0 02         0.04     1 28    10 0     013
2 Cornputer Hardware & Software                0.54       005            0.15       0.20             0.20             1.09        0 08          0 04    2 34     10 0    0 23
3 Laboratory Equtpment                            -          -              -          -             3.68                -           -            -    368       100    0 37
4 Testirg Instnrments                          0.63                 -            -              -                        -           -            -    063       100     0,06
S Medical iKs for GPs                          065           -              -          -                                             -             -    065      10 0    0 07
SubtotalEquizpment                               215        007            0.18       0.29             4.53             1.16        010           008     858      100     086
C. Teaching Materials lb                         0.03       0.08           0.08       0.04                 -               -           -             -    023    10.0      0 02
D. Technical Assistance
1 ForeignTA                                    0.51          -           0.05       0.02             004              0.25        043          032      163     100      016
2 LocalTA                                      006        003            0.05          -                -             001         001          001      018      100     002
Subiotal Technic Assistance                      0 58       0 03           010        0 02             0.04             0.27        045          0 33     1 81    10 0     018
E. Training/c                                    0.57       013            0.06       0.26             0.01             0.56        0.03         005      168      100     017
F. Fellowships                                   0.23                      0.35          -                -                -        0 02            -    0 60     10 0     0 06
G. Local Health Promotion PrograwsId                -       112               --                                  -              -            -           112    10.0    0.11
Total InvestmentCosts                              356        1.44           078        0.70             1760             1.98        061           047    2714      100     2 71
11. Recurrent Costs
A SlaitSabanes/e                                 0.15       004            0.15       0.07             0.00             0.41        0.04          017     102      100     0.10
B M'scellanecous Cosis f                            -       0.10              -          -                -             0 04        0 21          010     0 44     10 0    0 04
C Mantenance /g                                  0.01          -              -          -                              045         0 03          0 02    0 51    10 0     005
Total RecurrentCosts                               016        014            015        007              000              090         027           029     197      100     020
Total BASELINE COSTS                               3.72        1 58          0 93        0 76            17.60            2 88         0 88         0 75   2910      10 0    291
Physical Contingencies                           0.37       0.16           0.09       0.08              1.76            0 29        0 09         0 08    2.91
Pnce Contingencies                               0.19       017            0.06       006               1.72            0 20        0 04         004    249        91      0 23
Total PROJECT COSTS                                4.29        190           108        0.91             21.08            3.37         101          087    3451       91     314
OQ 
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                                 370        019            084        0.33             14.04            1.57        0.65         049    2179       91      198 g        t
0     O
t-n
\a includes traning and audio-visual equipment
lb Books. jotrnals. and mass media materials
vc Short4erm visits, (oreign and local trainiq, workshops. ard seminwrs
id Competitive awards grven to community-based groups for heath programs
b IncJudes statf salaries whiie on short-term visits, raining, and fellowships
\I Various cosis needed tor project inplemenlatlion
\g Includes maintenance ol equipmenl and intrastrucLes



STONIA
HEALTH PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Componenis - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS Million)
Human Resources Development
Strengthening
Health System          the                                          Efficient Management of
Reorientaton       Departments   Creatlon                             Financial Resources
Institutional  Health      of Pubilc       of a      Construction of                     Central
Development  Promotion    Health and    Center for   the University        Local          Health
and          and       Polyclinic    Continuing        of         Provider/Health   Insurance     Project
Realignment   Disease    and Family       Health   Tartu/Blomedicum      Insurance       Agency    Coordination
In the MSA    Prevention    Medicine    Educatdon      Building         Interface     Development      Unit       Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. Design                                          -           -                         -              0.95                -            -             -    0.95
2. Construction                                          -                    -        011              14.44               -                   -           1455
3 Supervision                                                                       -                   0.19                                                 0.19
Subtotal Civil Works                                 -           -              -        011              15.59               -            -             -    15 70
B. Equipment
1. Office Equipment & Fumnure /a                0.38        0.03           0.04       0.10              0.82             0.08         0.03          005      1.52
2. Computer Hardware & Sottware                 0.61        0 06           0.16        023              0.23             1.21         009           0.05     2 63
3 Laboratory Equipnent                             -                                     -              4.39                -4.39
4. Testing Instrumnents                         0.73                                -                      -                -                          -    0 73
5 Medical Kts for GPs                           0.75           -              -          -                 -                -            -             -    075
Subtotal Equipment                                2.47        008            0.21        0.33              5.44            1 29         012           009    1002
C. Teaching Materials lb                          0.04        0.10           0.09        0.05                -                -                          -    00277
D. Technical Assistance
1. Foreign TA                                   0.58           -           0.06       0 02              0.04             0.28         0 48          0.36     183
2. Local TA                                     0 08        0.04           0.06          -                 -             0 02         0 02          0 01     0 22
Subtotal Technical Assistance                     066         0 04           0.12        0 02             0.04             0.30         0 50          0 37     2 06
E. Training Ic                                    067         0.15           0.07        0.32             0.01             0.69         0.04          0.06     201
F. Fellowships                                    0.26           -           0.40          -                 -                -         0 03             -    0 69
G. Local Health Promotion Programmes Id              -        1.36              -          -                 -                             -             -    1 36
Total Investment Costs                              4.09        1 73           0.90        0.83            21.08             2 27         0.68          0 52    32.10
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Staff Salanes/e                                0.18        0.05           0.18        0,08             0.00             0.50         0.04          0.21     1 24
B Miscellaneous Costs n                              -        0.12              -          -                 -             0.05         0 25          012      0 54
C. Maintenance /9                                 0 01           -              -                            -             0.56         0.03          0 02     0 63           i 
Total Recufrent Costs                               0.20        0.17           018         0.08              0.00             1.10        0.33          035      240                2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                  4.29        1.90           1.08       0.91             21.08             3.37         1.01         0.87    34.51
Taxes                                                -                                               -                        -                       -                       0
Foreign Exchange                                  3.70        0.19           0.84        0.33             14.04             1.57        0.65          0.49    21.79
\a Includes training and audio-visual equipment
\b Books, joumals, and mass media materials
vc Shon-temm visits, foreign and local training, workshops, and seminars
vd Competiitve awards given to community-based groups for health programs.
ve Includes staff salanes while on short-term visits, training, and fellowships
V Various costs needed for project implementation.
\g Includes maintenance of equipment and infrastructures



ESTON
HEALTH PROJEO
Expendiure Acouts by Components - Base Costs
(EEK Million)
Human Resources Development
Strengthening
Health System          the                                          Efficient Managoemnt of
Reonentation       Departments   Creation                            Financial Resources
Institutional  Health      of Public       of a     Construction of                     Central
Development  Promotion    Health and    Canter fr    the University        Local        Health
and          and       Polycilnic    Continuing        of         ProviderfHeaith  Insurance     Project                  Physical
Realignment    Disease     and Family     Health   TaitutBiomedicum     Insurance       Agency    Coordination             Contingencies
In the MSA    Prevention    Medicine    Education      Building         Interface    Development      Unit       Total     %     Amount
1. Investmnnt Costs
A. Civil Woris
1 D)esign                                          -          -                                        11.26                                              .1126      100     113
2 Construction                                           -            -               1.26            161.07                                          -   162-33     10 0    16 23
3. Supervision                                                              -                           2.14                            -            -      214    10.0    021
Subtotal Civg Vorks                                  -          -              -        126             174.47               -            -             -   17573      10 0    17 57
B. Equipment
1. Office Equipment a Fursturola                4.52       031            0.51        119               880             094          0.32         055      17.15     10.0    1.71                     1
2. Computer Hardweafe& Sottware                 7.20       0.68           1.96        2.63              2.63            14.57        1.07          0.58    31.32     10 0    313 
3 Laboratory Equipmernt                            -          -              -                         49.31               -            -            -    49.31      10 0    493                     t;
4 Testin instnnermts                            844           -              -           -                 -               -            -            -      8 44     10 0    0 84
5 Medica Kils for GPs                           8.71          -              -           -                -                             -            -      8 71     10 0    0 87
SuDtotal Equipment                               2887        099            2.47        3.82             60.75           1551          139           113    11493      100    11.49
C. Teaching Materials/b                           0.41        1.09           1.07       0.54                 -               -            -            -      3.11     100     0.31
D. Technical Assistance
I Foreign TA                                    687           -           0 72        0.24             0,48             3,38         5,79         4 34     21.83     10 0    218
2 LocalTA                                       085        042            068            -                 -            0.19         019           013      246      100     025
Subtotal Technical Assistance                     773        042            1.40        0.24              0.48            3.57         598           447     2429      100     243
E Training/c                                      766        1,79           0.86        3.50              0.16            7.49         043           064     22.54     10.0    225
F. Fellowships                                    3.05          -           4 69           -                 -                         0.32                   8 06     100     0 81
G. Local Heaith Promotion Programmes Id              -       1498              -           -                 -               -            -             -    1498      100      1.50
Total Investmetnt Costs                            47.72       1927          10.48        9.37            235.86           2657          812           625    36364      100    3636
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Staff Saliares /                               2.01       0.54            1.94       0.88              0 01            5.48         0.47          228     13.62     10,0    1.36
8 Miscellaneous Costs I                              -        1.34             -           -                 -            0.50         2 79          1.29     591      10 0    0.59
C Mahuenance ig                                   014           -              -           -                 -            6 03         0 38          0 27     6 81     100     0 68
Total Recurrent Costa                               215         1.88           194        088               001             1200         364           384     2634      100      263
Total BASELINE COSTS                               4987        21.15          1243        10.25           23587             3857         11.76        1009    38998      100    3900
Physical Contngencies                             4.99        211           1.24        1.02             2359             3.86         118           1.01    39 00        -       -i'
Price Contingencies                               2.61       2.22           0.74        0.87             23 06            2.70         060           0 60    33 39      91     3 04                r
Total PROJECT COSTS                                 57.47      2548           14.41       12 14           282.51            4513         13.53        1169    46237       91   4203           09      Z
Taxes                                                -          -              -           -                 -               -                          -        -        -       -          P
Foreign Exchange                                 4955        2.57          11.20        4.42            18810            2100          868          6.53    292.04      9.1   26.55                ' 0
\a inckJudes trawig and audio-visual equipment
tb Books, journals, and mass media materials
ic Short-ermm vit5s, foreign and local training, worksuops. and seminars
\d Competaivtve awards given to community-based groups for health programs
\a Includes staff salares whil on shod-term visits, training. and feliowships
V Various costs needed for project implementation
ig hincldes maintenrance of equipment and antrastrucdures



ESTONIA
HEALTH PROJECT
Expendture AccoOnts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(EEK Million)
Human Resourees Development
Strengthening
Health System          the                                           Efficlent Management of
Reorientation      Departments   Creation                             Financial Resources
Institutional  Health      of Public       of a      ConstrucUon of                      Central
Development  Promotion    Health and    Center for   the University        Local          Health
and          and        Polyclinic    Continuing       of         Provider/Health   Insurance     Project
Realignment   Disease      and Family     Health    Tarta/Blomedicum     Insurance       Agency    Coordination
In the MSA    Prevention    Medicine    Education      Building         Interface     Development      Unit       Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Clvil Works
1. Design                                          -           -             -           -             12.77                -            -             -     12.77
2. Construction                                          -                   -        1.45            193.56                -            -             -    195.01
3. Supervision                                     -                                     -              2.57                -            -             -      2.57
Subtotal CMi Works                                   -                                   1.45           208.90                -            -             -   210.35
B. Equipment
1. Office Equiprnent & Furniture /a             5.08       0.34           0.57        1.36             10.95             1.04         0.36          0.62    20.32
2.CornputerHardware&Software                    8.18        0.77           2.20       3.02              3.11            16.19         1.19          0.65    3530
3. Laboratory Equipmenlt                           -                         -           -             58.80                -            -             -    58 80
4. Testing instruments                          9.84                                     -                 -                -            -             -      9.84
5. Medica Kits for GPs                         10.00           -             -           -                 -                -            -             -     10 
Subtotal Equipment                               33.10        1.11           2.77       4.38             72.86            17.23         1.55          1.27    13427
C. Teaching Materials /b                          0.48        1.33           1.24       0.62                                  -            -             -      366
D. Technical Assistance
1. Foreign TA                                   7.80           -          0.83        0.27              0.56             3.76         6.49          4.86    24.56
2. Locai TA                                     1.03        0.50           0.83          -                 -             0.23         0 23          0.16      2.99
Subtotal Technical Assistance                     8.83        0.50           1.66       0.27              0.56             4.00         6.72          5.02     27.55
E. Training /c                                    8.99        2.05           0.99       4.35              0.18             9.19         0.48          0.74     26.96
F. Fellowships                                    3.45           -           5.38          -                 -                -         0.36             -      9.18
G. Local Health Promotion Programmes Id              -       18.22              -          -                 -                                           -     1822
Total Investment Costs                             54.85       23.20          12.03       11.06           282.50            30.42         9.11          7.03    43020
I1. Recurrent Costs
A. Staff Salaries /                               2.45        0.65           2.38        1.08             0.01             6.63         0.57          2.78     16.55
i. Miscellaneous Costs/f                             -        1.63              -          -                 -             0.61         3.39          1.56      7.19
C. Maintenance lg                                 0.17           -              -          -                 -             7.48         0.46          0.33      8.43
Total Recurrent Costs                               2.62        2.28           2.38        1.08             0.01             14.72        4.42          4.67     32.17
Total PROJECT COSTS                                 57.47       25.48         14.41       12.14            282.51            45.13        13.53         11.69    462.37        , D
Taxes                                                -           -              -           -                -                -                                              O
Foreign Exdiwge                                  49.55        2.57          11.20       4.42             188.10           21.00         8.68          6.53    292.04            m
0
\a Inckudes training and audio-visual equipment
\b Books, journals, and mnass m edia materials
%c Short-renrt visits, foreignand ka Itraining. workshops, ands seminrs
vd Competitve awards given to convuity-based groups for health programs.
ve Includes staff salaries wIiMe on shotd-term visits, training, and fellowships
V Various costs needed for projet imnpknentation.
\g includes maintenance of equipnent and intrastnucures



ESTONIA
HEALTH PROJECT
Project Components by Year - Base Costs
Base Cost (EEK Million)                       Base Cost (USS Million)
1995    1996      1997      1998     Total    1995    1996    1997    1998    Total
A. Health System Reorientation
1 Institutional Development and Realignment in the MSA/a                    13.10    19.03     11.47      6.27     49.87    0.98     1,42     0.86     0.47     3.72
2. Health Promotion and Disease Prevention                                   6.30     5.51      4.61      4.72     21.15     0.47    0.41     034      0.35     1.58
Subtotal Health System Reorientation                                          19.41    24.54     16.08     10.99     71.02     1.45     1.83     1.20    0.82     5,30
B. Human Resources Development
1. Strengthening the Departments of Public Health and Polyclinic and Family Medicine  4.13  3.33  2.56    2.41     12.43    0.31     0.25     0.19     0.18     0.93
2. Creation of a Center for Continuing Health Education /b                   3.15     2.39      2.79      1.92     10.25     0.23    0.18     0.21     0.14     0.76
3 Construction of the University of Tartu Biomedicum Building                8.23    25.93     97.18    104.52    235.87     0.61     1.94    7.25     7.80    17.60
Subtotal Human Resources Development                                          15.51    31.66    102.53    108.85    258.54     1.16     2.36    7.65     8.12    19.29
C. Efficient Management of Financial Resources
1. Local Provider/Health Insurance Interface                                21.01     6.52      5.68      5.37     38.57     1.57    0.49     0.42     0.40     2.88
2 Central Health Insurance Agency Development                                6.82     2.77      1.20      0.96     11.76     0.51    0 21     0 09     0.07     0.88
Subtotal Efficient Management of Financial Resources                          27.83     9.29      6.88      6.33     50.33     2 08     0.69    0.51     0 47     3 76
D. Project Coordination Unit                                                   5.18     2.60      1.15      1.15     10.09     039      019     0 09     0 09     0.75   N
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                           67.93    68.08    126.64    127.32    389.98    5.07     5.08     9 45     9.50    29.10
Physical Contingencies                                                       6.79     6.81     12.66     12.73     39.00     0.51    0.51     0.95     0.95     2.91
Price Contingencies                                                          1.25     4.29     12.10     15.76     33.39     0.09    0.32     090      1.18     2.49
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                            75.98    79.17    151.41    155.82    462.37    5.67     5.91    11.30    11.63    34.51
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                                                            58.64    47.46     88.32     97.62    292.04    4.38     3.54     6.59     7.29    21.79
\a Ministry of Social Affairs
\b The Institute of Experimental and Clinical Medicine under the scientific supervision of the Tartu Medical Faculty.
ID  rrl
0'
rt9



ESTONIA
HEALTH PROJECT
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencies (EEK          Totals Including Contingencies (USS
Million)                                     Million)
1995    1996     1997      1998     Total    1995    1996    1997    1998    Total
A. Health System Reorientation
1 Institutional Development and Realignment in the MSA /a                 14.60    21.75    13.51      7.61    57.47     1.09     1.62    1.01     0.57    4.29
2. Health Promotion and Disease Prevention                                 7.16    6.60      5.72      6.00    25.48     0.53     0.49    0.43     0.45     1.90
Subtotal Health System Reorientation                                        21.76    28.34    19.24     13.61    82,95     1.62     2.12    1.44     1.02     6.19
B. Human Resources Development
1. Strengthening the Departments of Public Health and Polyclinic and Family Medicine    4.60  3.83  3.04  2.94  14.41    0.34    0.29     0.23     0.22     1.08
2. Creation ofa Center for Continuing Health Education lb                  3.58    2.78      3.35      2.43    12.14     0.27     0.21    0.25     0.18     0.91
3. Construction of the University of Tartu Biomedicum Building             9.19    30.16    115.85    127.31    282.51   0.69     2.25    8.65     9.50    21.08
Subtotal Human Resources Development                                        17.37    36.77    122.24    132.69    309.06   1.30    2.74     9.12     9.90    23.06
C. Efficient Management of Financial Resources
1 Local ProviderlHealth Insurance Interface                               23.43    7.83      7.04     6.84     45.13     1.75    0.58     0.53     0.51    3.37
2 Central Health Insurance Agency Development                              7.62    3.21      1.48      1.23    13.53    0.57      0.24    0.11     0.09     1.01
Subtotal Efficient Management of Financial Resources                        31.05    11.04     8.52      8.06    58.66     2.32    0.82     0.64     0.60    4.38 T
D. Project Coordination Unit                                                 5.80    3.02      1.42      1.46    11.69     0.43    0.23     0.11     0.11    0.87
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                         75.98    79.17    151.41    155.82    462.37    5.67    5.91    11.30    11.63    34.51
\a Miistry of Social Affairs
\b The Institute of Experimental and Clinical Medicine under the scientific supervision of the Tartu Medical Faculty.
OQZ
_ A
0



ESTONI
HEALTH PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Years -- Base Costs
Base Cost (EEK Million)                         Base Cost (USS Million)            Foreign Exchange
1995     1996     1997       1998     Total    1995      1996     1997      1998    Total      %       Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. Design                                   7.88     1.13      1.13      1.13      11.26    0.59      0.08     0.08     0.08     0.84      85.0      0.71
2 Construction                              1.26    24.16     80.53     56.37    162.33      0.09     1.80     6.01     4,21    12.11      59.5      7 21
3 Supervision                                  -     0 64      0.75      0.75       2,14        -     0.05     0.06     0.06     0.16      56 0      0 09
Subtotal Civil Works                          9.14    25.93     82.41      58.25    175,73     0.68     1.94     6.15     4 35    13 11      61.1      8 02
B. Equipment
1 Office Equipment & Furniture /a           6.03     2.32      1.76      7.05     17.15     0.45     0.17      0.13     0.53     1.28      56.4      0.72
2. Computer Hardware & Software            19.25     6.52      4.09      1.46      31.32     1.44     0.49     0.31     0.11     2.34     1000       2.34
3. Laboratory Equipment                                 -     11.79     37.52     49.31        -               0.88     2.80     3 68      950       3 50
4 Testing Instruments                          -     2.81      2.81      2.81       8.44       -      0.21     0.21     0.21     0 63     100 0      0 63
5 Medical Kits for GPs                      2.01     2.68      2.68      1.34      8.71     015       020      020      010      065      1000       065
Subtotal Equipment                           27.29    14.33     23.13     50.18    114.93      2.04     1.07     1.73     374      858       91 3      7.83
C. Teaching Materials lb                      0.55     1.14      0.75       068       3.11     0.04     0.08     0.06     0.05     0.23      60.6      0.14
D. Technical Assistance
1 Foreign TA                               13 27     6.03      1.81      0.72     21.83     0 99     0.45      0.14     0 05     1 63     100 0      1 63
2 LocalTA                                   0.52     074       0.69      0.51      2 46     0 04      0.06     0 05     0.04     0 18         -         -                   -
Subtotal Technical Assislance                13.79     6.77      2.50       1.24     24.29     1.03     0.51     0.19     0.09     1 81      89 9      1 63                   N)
E. Training /c                                5 62     6 01      5.45      5.45      22.54     0.42     0.45     0.41     0 41     1 68      34.6      0.58
F. Fellowships                                2.95     2.63      1.55      0.94       8.06     0.22     0.20     0.12     007      0.60     100 0      0 60
G. Local Health Promotion Programmes /d       3.75     3.75      3.75       3.75     14.98     0 28     028      0.28     0.28     1 12         -
Total Investment Costs                         63.08    6055    119.53    120.48    363.64       4.71     4.52    892      899    27 14       693      1880
II. Recurrent Costs
A Staff Salanes /e                            3.25     3.82       3.41      3.14     13.62     0.24     028      0.25     0.23     1.02                   -
B Miscellaneous Costs /f                      1.45     1.49       1.49      1.49      591      011      0.11     0.11     011      0A44
C. Maintenance/g                              0,16     2.22      2.22       2.22      6.81     0.01     0.17     017      0.17     0 51
Total Recurrent Costs                           4 85     7 52       7.12      6.85  -  2634      0.36     0.56     0 53     0.51     1 97         -         -
Total BASELINE COSTS                            67.93    68.08    126.64    127.32    389.98      5.07     5.08     9 45     9.50    29 10      64 6     18 80
Physical Contingencies                        6.79     6.81     12.66      12.73     39.00     0.51     0.51     0.95     0.95     2.91      64 6      1.88
Price Contingencies                           1.25     4.29     12.10      15.76     33.39     0.09     0.32     0.90     1.18     249       44.6      1.11
Total PROJECT COSTS                             75.98    79.17    151.41    155.82    462.37      5.67     5.91    11.30    11.63    3451       632      21.79
Taxes                                                      -        -              -         -             -                     -              -
Foreign Exchange                             58.64    47.46     88.32     97.62    292.04      4.38     3.54     6.59     7.29    21.79         -         -            t   X
_                                                                                                           v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
\a Includes training and audio-visual equipment                                                                                                                           0
\b Books, joumals, and mnass media materials
\c Short-term visits, foreign and local training, workshops, and seminars
\d Competititve awards given to community-based groups for health programs.
\e Includes staff salanes while on short-term visits, training, and fellowships
\f Various costs needed for project implementation.
\g Includes maintenance of equipment and infrastructures



ESTONIA
HEALTH PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencies (EEK          Totals Including Contingencies (US$
Million)                                     Million)
1995    1996     1997      1998     Total    1995    1996    1997    1998    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. Design                                8.79     1.29     1.32      1.36     12.77    0.66     0.10    0.10     0.10    0.95
2. Construction                          1.45    28.12    96.27     69.17    195.01    0.11     2.10    7.18     5.16    14.55
3. Supervision                              -    0.75      0.90      0.92      2.57       -    0.06     0.07     0.07     0.19
Subtotal Civil Works                      10.24    30.16    98.49     71.45    210.35    0.76     2.25    7.35     5.33    15.70
B. Equipment
1. Office Equipment & Furniture /a       6.74     2.63     2.14      8.81    20.32     0.50     0.20    0.16     0.66    1.52
2. Computer Hardware & Software         21.39     7.41     4.76      1.74     35.30    1.60     0.55    0.36     0.13    2.63
3. Laboratory Equipment                     -        -    13.79    45.01      58.80       -        -    1.03    3.36     4.39
4. Testing Instruments                      -    3.20      3.28      3.37      9.84       -    0.24     0.24     0 25    0.73
5. Medical Kits for GPs                  2.23     3.04     3.12      1.60     10.00    0.17     0.23    0.23     0.12    075
Subtotal Equipment                        30.36    16.28    27.09     60.54    134.27    2.27     1.22    2.02    4.52    10.02
C. Teaching Materials lb                   0.62     1.32     0.89      0.83      3.66    0.05     0.10    0.07     0.06    0.27
D. Technical Assistance
1. Foreign TA                           14.74     6.85     2.11      0.87    24.56     1.10     051     0.16    0.06     1.83
2. Local TA                              0 59     0 89     0.85 -   0.65      2.99     0.04    0.07     0.06     0 05    0 22
Subtotal Technical Assistance             15.33     7.74     2.96      1.52     27.55    1.14     0.58    0.22     0.11    2 06
E. Training ic                             6.31     7.10     6.69      6.86     26.96    0.47     0.53    0.50    0.51     2.01
F. Fellowships                             3.28     2.98     1.80      1.12      9.18    0.24     0.22    0.13     0.08    0.69
G. Local Health Promotion Programmes id    4.28     4.52     4.64      4.77     18.22    0.32     0.34    0.35     0.36     1.36
Total Investment Costs                      70.42    70.10    142.58    147.09    430.20   5.26     5.23    10.64    10.98    32.10
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Staff Salaries /e                       3.72     4.60     4.23      4.00     16.55    0.28     0.34    0.32     0.30     1.24
B. Miscellaneous Costs /f                  1.66     1.79      1.84     1.89      7.19    0.12     0.13    0.14    0.14     0.54
C. Maintenance /g                          0.18     2.68     2.75      2.83      8.43    0.01     0.20    0.21     0.21    0.63
Total Recurrent Costs                        5.55     9.07     8.83      8.72     32.17    0.41     0.68    0.66     0.65    2.40
Total PROJECT COSTS                          75.98    79.17    151.41    155.82    462.37   5.67    5.91    11.30    11.63    34.51
ib 
a Includes training and audio-visual equipment                                                                                                OQ 
\b Books, journals, and mass media materials                                                                                                        X
\c Short-term visits, foreign and local training, workshops, and seminars
\d Competilitve awards given to community-based groups for health programs.                                                                     0
\e Includes staff salaries while on short-term visits, training, and fellowships                                                                0
Vf Various costs needed for project implementation.
\g Includes maintenance of equipment and infrastructures






-130-
ANNEX 10
ESTONIA HEALTH PROJECT
ESTIMATED LOAN DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Amount (US$ Million)
Bank                                                          Cumulation         Disbursement
FY                Semester        Absolute     Cumulative     as % of Total    Profile Estonia'
1995                  2              1.5             1.5              8
1996                  1              1.5             3.0             17
2              1.2             4.2             23
1997                  1              1.2             5.4             30
2             2.9              8.3             46
1998                  1              2.9            11.2             62
2             3.4            14.6              81
1999                  1              3.4            18.0             100
1/    This is the first human resource investment loan to Estonia and the Standard Disbursement Profile for human
resource sector projects is not available.






-131-
ANNEX 11
ESTONIA HEALTH PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Timing            Staff Weeks              Staffing
FY95              22'                     -Task manager                        (8 weeks)
-Health financing                   (4 weeks)
-Management development             (2 weeks)
-Procurement                        (2 weeks)
-Architect                           (4 weeks)
-Public Health Spec.                (2 weeks)
FY96              242                     -Task Manager                        (8 weeks)
-Health financing                   (4 weeks)
-Medical education                   (2 weeks)
-Health policy                      (2 weeks)
-Health promotion                   (4 weeks)
-Public health                      (4 weeks)
FY97              18                      -Task manager                        (8 weeks)
-Management Development             (4 weeks)
-Information Systems                (2 weeks)
-Architect                          (4 weeks)
FY98              18                      -Task manager                        (8 weeks)
-Health financing                   (4 weeks)
-Medical education                  (2 weeks)
-Public Health                      (2 weeks)
-Others3                            (2 weeks)
I/          Bank resources 15 weeks, supplementary resources from Trust Funds 7 weeks.
2/          Additional 6 weeks for mid-term review.
3/          Others --to be identified according to project implementation requirements.






-132-                                ANNEX 12
ESTONIA HEALTH PROJECT
LIST OF SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
Previous Annexes
1.        Instruments for Health Policy and Economic Analysis (available on request).
2.         Health Promotion and Prevention (available on request).
3.         Training in Public Health and Family Medicine and Continuing Education of Health
Professionals (available on request).
4.         Project Coordination Unit (available on request).
5.         Detailed Cost Tables
Other Documents
1.         Barnum, H. Status of the Health Financing component. Consultant report. 1994.
2.         Bento, A. Health Facilities and Medical Equipment in Estonia. Consultant report. 1993.
3.         Bento, A. Medical Equipment Support System. Consultant report. 1994.
4.         Cernerud, L. Human Resources Development. Consultant report. 1993.
5.         Costa, C., V. Ramos. A Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Prevention in the Estonia Health
Proiect. Draft. 1994.
6.         De Messieres, 0.  The Biomedical Sciences Building for the University of Tartu.
Consultant report. 1994.
7.         DiTullio, K. Health Sector Note: Public Expenditures. Draft. 1993.
8.         Godinho, J. Family Planning, Maternal and Child Health in Estonia. Consultant report.
1993.
9.         Grande, N.R., R. Madeley. Human Resources Development Component. Consultant
report. 1994.
10.        Ensor, T. Proiect Support for the Health Financing System. Consultant report. 1994.



-133-                                  ANNEX 12
11.        Estonian Medical Statistics Bureau. Latvian Medical Statistics Bureau. Lithuania Health
Information Centre. Health in Baltic Countries. 1993.
12.        Huitima, P. Hospitals and Health Services' Efficiency. Consultant report. 1993.
13.        Hogstedt, J.F. Finishing the Plans for the Hospitals in Val-ga and Parnu. Training in
Hospital Facility Planning. Establishing an Information Service Unit for Hospital Facility
Planning. Consultant report. 1994.
14.        Kanach, F.A. Acute Hospital Bed Requirement Analysis and Recommended Guidelines.
Consultant report. 1994.
15.        Kanach, F.A. Health Services Efficiency and Quality Improvement. Consultant report.
1994.
16.        Kappos, A. Environmental Health Services in Europe: Estonia. WHO/Euro Report. 1993.
17.        Koskela, K. Health Promotion and Disease Prevention in Estonia. Consultant report. 1994.
18.        Lepisk, J. Health Status and Health Services in Estonia. Consultant Report. 1994.
19.        MSA/UNISEF Terve Laps (Healthy Child) Estonian Child Health Promotion Program.
Proposal Draft. 1993.
20.         Ministry of Social Affairs of Estonia. Architectural Brief for the University of Tartu
Biomedical Sciences Building. 1994.
21.         Palu, T. Troubleshooting Estonian Health Care Reforms. Draft. 1993.
22.         Republic of Estonia. The Health Insurance Law. Translation. 1994.
23.         Republic of Estonia. Law on the Organization of Health Care. Translation. 1994.
24.         Routenberg, D.  Proiect Coordination Unit.  Functions and Proposed Organization.
Consultant report. 1994.
25.         Rago, L. Current Situation of Pharmaceutical Sector and Drug Regulatory Authorities in
the Republic of Estonia. State Agency of Medicines Director General Report.
26.         Saava, A., M. Tammik. Centre for Continuing Education on Public Health. Department
of Public Health, University of Tartu. 1994.
27.        Saltman, R. Estonia's National Health Strategy: A Brief Overview. 1994.
28.         Sjolund, S. Framework for Technical Assistance to Estonia. Consultant report. 1994.
29.        Sjolund, S. Hospital Efficiency. Consultant report. 1994.



-134-                                 ANNEX 12
30.        Steensberg, J. Health Protection and Public Health in Estonia. Report on a WHO/World
Bank mission. Draft. 1994.
31.        Wemans, J. Biomedical Sciences Building Technical Systems. Architectural Brief. 1994.
32.        WHO/Euro Estonia Health Sector Review Report. 1992.






-     FINLAND       /.
SWEDEN                                                                                                                 E S T O  N I A
Talinn >                         MAIN ROADS                                             HEALTH  PROJECT                                                                  PORTS
Pgtn          ESTNIA        RUSIANRAILROADS                                                                                                                                          4-AIRPORTS
S  a                      E,   FED                 COUNNY BOADS               W   MINISTRY OF SOCIAL AFFAIRS                    *   HEALTH INSURANCE AGENCIES                          T    OWNS
_,-   ^}  EEL  -    -   COUNTY BOUNDARIES      U   CENTRAL HEALTH INSURANCE AGENCY                   UNIVERSITY OF TARTU BIOMEDICAL BUILDING              TD
INTERNATIONAL              A                                                        AND DEPARTMENTS OF PUBLIC HEALTH                 COUNTY SEATS
ATVIA             -         ~~~~~~~~BOUNDARIES            CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION                      AND FAMILY MEDICINE                               NATIONAL CAPITAL
L A T V I A   <
Jo  LITHUANIA   G                                        Noissr27                 Prongli                                            GuIf  of  Fin  ord-
LITHUANIA                                                                                                                                      GufofFnln
Noissoor                                           . 
FED~
RUSSIAN  2  J'       BELARUS                                                         *               Maa,udu                 \                    i       (    Kohtla- 
POLAND       Pk
____________________________________________          P. ldisli         A                                                     a~-
* KrdI.L* ^AA Et A>                          .4                       .......                                    "        
H IILIM A A  *\ Hoapsolo~ ~~~~~~H   ~'
*   .  0     t 1 ;      AI D A   V I                                                                                R U M A A|
9 t ( = W () ~~~~~ *s- gy.RS / -> 5 !% L ~~~~A A   ;
* A  ARE  ML A AA                                                                                      V I R U M A A
Soard
j            HI UMAA                 X  H~~~~~~~oar<s                                                                                                                V6r  ohssee
Vormsi ~ ~  ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~       olo)" 
R.pla_/  8                               ,, / J  O  . V A                                                       oA, A
H I i U M A A               HTophI                                i                             Paid,  l   d  T    a               I'                                   a PATA M
S A AR                                                                   The Wold Aank GroAp, ang  ud iasent    L        V   I A  li e                                                     D
arn th lega sttu of na trrT, oar                                                  u TJRg
Kuresssure~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a,~r 1\/  
0 20 40 60 80 100 KILOMETERSuThe boundariesMAA
ia~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mh r                                                            n Jyohr nomto hw n*\j
o     1   0   0  0  50       60MLE                              hj mpdono mpyonth  or o                  AT\   IA          \ !Zr.    
en                                                                        The World Bonk Group. ony ludgment    L /*  I V  I e          '~A   N   U  , Ai A
_                                           on thelegol sstus of oy terl/try or                                 V-             To RigoRU)SSIAN
O                                             242             ony endorsement or occeptonce of                            To Rigo    To Gulbene  2If                (- \O N) AA  M A 



