Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3835 EE
                              Loan Agreement
                             (Health Project)
                                  between
                            REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated January 26, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3835 EE
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 26, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
ESTONIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
Page  2
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
      be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
      Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MSA" means the Ministry of Social Affairs of the
Borrower;
      (b)   "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit,
established within MSA;
      (c)   "CHIA" means the Central Health Insurance Agency of
the Borrower; and
      (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of eighteen million dollars
($18,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 1, 1999 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Page  3
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                  Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                  or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                  1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                  otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                  this Section.
           (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or
                  the second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
            Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."
                  "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
            respect of such Quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
            1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
through the Ministry of Social Affairs with due diligence and
Page  4
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and public health practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on the said plan; and
      (c)   thereafter, carry out the said plan with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate
practices, taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                  for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each such year, the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
           (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and
                  the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                  time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
Page  5
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account
                  was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
           (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   The Director of the Policy and Economic Analysis Unit
is appointed by the MSA; and
      (b)   MSA and CHIA will reach agreement acceptable to the
Bank on the annual transfer of an appropriate percentage of
health insurance tax proceeds to the MSA for financing of
health promotion and disease prevention programs.
      (c)   National working group and a coordinator for the
hospital and health facilities Master Plan and a Committee on
Medical Technologies are appointed under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank; and
      (d)   The Borrower provided evidence, satisfactory to the
Bank, that provisions in the budget for 1995, combined with
other sources of financing are adequate to fund the
contribution of the Borrower for the implementation of the
Project in that year.
      Section 5.02. The date (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            1 Suur-Ameerika
            EE00100 Tallinn
            Estonia
Page  6
                                          Telex:
                                             173106 PLAAN
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
                        By /s/ Andres Lipstok
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Basil Kavalsky
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                               Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated           % of
                              (Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                    Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                  7,500,000         100% of foreign
                                                   expenditures,
                                                   and 60% of local
                                                   expenditures for
                                                   other items
                                                   procured locally
(2) Supplies and                 7,500,000         100% of foreign
    equipment                                      expenditures,
Page  7
                                                   100% of local
                                                   expenditures
                                                   (ex-factory
                                                   cost) and 80%
                                                   of local
                                                   expenditures for
                                                   other items
                                                   procured locally
(3) Training, fellowships,        1,000,000        100% of foreign
    local programs and                             expenditures and
    consultant's services                          50% of local
                                                   expenditures
(4) Unallocated                   2,000,000
                                 __________
         TOTAL                   18,000,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $270,000, may
be made in respect of Category 1 on account of payments made
for expenditures before that date but after July 20, 1994.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods and works not exceeding $100,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to provide support for the
health reform efforts initiated by the Government and to
improve the health of Estonia's population by emphasizing
health promotion and disease prevention programs, developing
human resources by strengthening modern public health training,
integrated pre-clinical medical training, and continuing
education for doctors, administrators and other health
personnel and support the on-going health financing reform to
ensure its sustainability, cost-effectiveness and equity
through establishing sound cost, performance analysis and
health management information systems.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:  Health System Reorientation Component
1.  Institutional development and realignment in MSA
strengthening the institutional capacity of the Ministry in
four areas to facilitate health reform and improve efficiency
in: (a) health policy and economic analysis, and health
management information systems; (b) hospital efficiency
enhancement, including: (i) facility planning and re-design,
(ii) hospital management development, and (iii) medical
Page  8
equipment support; (c) quality assurance and accreditation of
health professionals and facilities; and (d) primary health
care (PHC) and health protection service reorientation --
including redefined functions for family doctors, county
doctors, community and town physicians, and health protection
staff.
2.  Health promotion and disease prevention consisting of two
main activities: (a) annual funding of health promotion
programs in support of local initiatives; and (b) national
campaigns on promotion and prevention related to five priority
areas: anti-smoking, cardiovascular and heart disease
prevention, injury control, women's health and family planning.
Part B:  Human Resources Development
1.  Strengthening the recently established Departments of Public
Health and of Polyclinics and Family Medicine and reinforcing
public health and family medicine training for doctors and
other health professionals at pre-clinical, clinical and post-
graduate levels at Tartu Medical Faculty.
2.  Creating a center for continuing education of health
professionals in Tallinn, under the academic guidance of Tartu
Medical Faculty.
3.  Designing, constructing and equipping a new building for
Biomedical and Health Sciences at the University of Tartu.
Part C:  Efficient Management of Financial Resources
    Strengthening the capacity of the CHIA and the Local Health
Insurance Funds to collect, retrieve and analyze information
needed for providers and insurance administration through
improved accounting and management information procedures,
health insurance enrollment and collection, and reimbursement
methods; and establishing electronic links between these funds
and health care providers.
Part D:  Project Administration
     Providing support for the Project Coordination Unit in MSA
and the coordinators -- one each in the University of Tartu and
in the Central Health Insurance Agency -- and appointment of a
Health Reform Implementation Committee.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by January 1, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                         Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
    beginning July 15, 2000
    through July 15, 2009                     900,000
And on January 15, 2010                       900,000
Page  9
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                           Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum) applicable
                                   to the Loan on the day of
                                   prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.20
    before maturity
More than three years but                            0.40
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                              0.73
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.87
    more than 13 years
    before maturity
More than 13 years before                            1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
Page  10
award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior
review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1(a) of this
Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for (i) a
first extension of the bid validity period if the period of
extension exceeds sixty (60) days and (ii) any subsequent
extension of the bid validity period.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance
with this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard
bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Bidders for works shall be prequalified as provided in
paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.  To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works
shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or more.
Part B:  Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
Estonia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix
2 thereto.
Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Items or groups of items for goods medical, testing, and
laboratory and other similar special purpose equipment up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $5,900,000, may be procured
through limited international bidding procedures on the basis
of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II
of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56
thereof).
2.  Items or groups of items for civil works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $300,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $300,000 may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.
3.  Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $350,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.  Contracts for teaching materials up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $250,000 may be awarded after direct negotiations
with suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
Part D:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of prequalification:
    With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
Page  11
in Part (I).(A) (2) hereof, the procedures set forth in
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, each
contract governed by paragraphs C.1 and C.4 and the first
contract governed by paragraph C.2, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6
to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in project implementation,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower
shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by
the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard
forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c)
to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by
the Bank, (d) to amendments of contracts for employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.
Page  12
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.  For the purposes of implementation of the Project, the
Borrower has established PCU, which shall have overall
responsibility for coordination of the carrying out of the
Project and the Borrower shall ensure that PCU will be
maintained and will be provided at all times with such staff,
functions, resources and authorities as is acceptable to the
Bank.
2.  The Borrower shall make adequate arrangements for the
Project to be implemented by the executing agencies, who shall
be assisted by the respective line departments of MSA in
accordance with the timetable specified in Annex to this
Schedule.
3.  The Borrower shall provide funding for civil works,
equipment, health promotion programs, consultant's services and
other inputs and shall carry out training, including
fellowships, under the Project in accordance with terms of
reference, and pursuant to a time schedule acceptable to the
Bank. The grants program for health promotion and disease
prevention shall be operated by the MSA with operational rules,
procedures, financing and selection criteria satisfactory to
the Bank.
4.  In order to facilitate the carrying out of the Project in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this
Agreement, annual progress reports would be prepared for each
of the components by the respective implementing agencies or
divisions and would be consolidated by the PCU into an annual
report highlighting problems encountered, achievements in
relation to project implementation plan and goals, the status
of procurement and construction, technical assistance
accomplishments, expenditures by category (committed and made),
budgetary allocations, disbursements and implementation plan
for the following year. The implementation plan would include,
for Bank review, a list of the bidding packages proposed for
procurement and a list of the technical assistance to be
obtained, by donor. This report would be sent to the Bank not
later than November 30 of each year.
5.  In order to ensure maximum benefits from the experience
gained during implementation of the Project, a mid-term review
shall be carried out, jointly, by the Borrower and the Bank,
not later than November 30, 1996 according to terms of
reference prepared by the Borrower and furnished to the Bank,
in form and substance acceptable to the Bank, not later than
November 30, 1996. Such mid-term review shall, inter alia:
    (a)   determine overall implementation progress and ways of
improving Project operations, for the achievement of the
Project objectives;
    (b)   allow opportunity to effect changes in policy, which
may be necessary upon experience during the initial Project
execution period and effect mid-course adjustments, if
necessary, in Project execution; and
    (c)   identify possible follow-up operations.
                            ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 5
    For the purposes of implementation of the Project, the
Borrower shall take or cause to be taken the following actions
by the dates specified bellow:
1.  By May 30, 1995, CHIA shall appoint consultants to review
the results of the EU-PHARE exercise in Parnu County and by
July 31, 1995, it shall decide on and adopt financial
Page  13
management and accounting systems addressed to the local
insurance funds and providers, satisfactory to the Bank.
2.  By July 1, 1995, MSA shall furnish to the Bank a program for
health promotion and disease prevention, with operational
rules, procedures financing and selection criteria satisfactory
to the Bank.
3.  By July 31, 1995, CHIA shall recruit a revenue collection
specialist and a public information expert and by November 30,
1995, it shall submit to the Bank an action plan for
implementing recommendations on financial management and
accounting systems for local insurance funds and providers, on
improvement of revenue collection and on a public information
program for employees and enterprise owners.
4.  By February 15, 1996, MSA shall submit to the Bank a report
on the status of development of the accreditation, licensure
and quality assurance systems with recommendations for nation-
wide application.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2
and 3 as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $300,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account have been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocations, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts
determined by the Bank to be required to pay for eligible
expenditures during the four months following the date of each
such request, which amount shall not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Bank shall have
determined to be so required.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
Page  14
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                have requested and as shall have been shown by
                said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
Page  15
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank
such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
