Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18864
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
SOCIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
(Credit 2273-ZA)
January22, 1999
Africa Human Development 1
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Zambia Kwacha (ZMK)
ZMK 47.40 = US$ 1.00 (as of December 1990)
ZMK 1950 = US$1.00 (as of September 1998, Completion Mission)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CSO           Central Statistical Office
DC            District Council
DDCC          District Development Coordinating Committee
EU            European Union
ERC           Economic Recovery Credit
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
MOFED         Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MOH           Ministry of Health
MPU           Microprojects Unit
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NGO           Nongovernmental Organization
PC            Project Committee
PPU           Provincial Planning Unit
PDCC          Provincial Development Coordinating Committee
RO            Regional Office
SAP           Social Action Program
SRP           Social Recovery Project
SSS           Social Statistics Subcommittee
Managers and Staff Responsible
Vice-President:      Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:    Phyllis R. Pomerantz
Sector Manager:      Ruth Kagia
Task Team Leader:    Gita Gopal



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE....................................................................................................................................
PART I: EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................                                                   ...........................................I
PART II: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .................................................1
PART III: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ...............................................................                                                        10
Table 1A. Summary  ofAssessments ...............................................................                                                 10
Table lB. Summary ofAssessments: Community Initiatives Component ................................. 11
Table IC. Summary of Assessments: Poverty Monitoring and Analysis
Component: Surveys Subcomponent ...............................................................                                                 12
Table 1D. Summary ofAssessments: Poverty Monitoring and Analysis
Component and Studies Subcomponent ...............................................................                                               13
Table 2. Related Bank Credits ...............................................................                                                   14
Table 3. Project Timetable ...............................................................                                                       17
Table  4. Credit Disbursements, Estimated and Actuals .......................................................... 18
Table 5A. Project Costs ...............................................................                                                         19
Table 5B. Project Financing Plan, SAR  Estimates and Actual ............................................... 19
Table  6  Economic Costs and Benefits ...............................................................                                            19
Table  7A. Key Implementation Indicators ...............................................................                                        20
Table 7B. Key Implementation Indicators - Number of Projects ............................................. 21
Table 7C. Key Implementation Indicators - Average Number of Beneficiaries ...........                                                   ............ 21
Table 7D. Key Implementation Indicators - Geographical Distribution of Sub-projects ......... 22
Table 8. Key Indicators for Project Operation ...............................................................                                    22
Table 9. Studies Conducted  Under the Project ...............................................................                                     23
Table  10. Status ofLegal Covenants ...............................................................                                             32
Table  11. Compliance with  Operation Manual Statements .................................I ................... 33
Table  12. Bank Resources - StaffInput ...............................................................                                          33
Table  13. Bank Resources - Missions ...............................................................                                            34
PART IV - APPENDIXES ...............................................................                                                                 37
Appendix A Aide Memoire of the Final Supervision Mission in September 1998 ................... 38
Appendix B   Evaluation Summary  of the Borrower's ICR ...................................................... 50
Appendix  C   Comments from   the Borrower on  the Bank's ICR  .......................                                      ....................... 59
Map  IBRD No. 26792R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
SOCIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
CREDIT 2273-ZA
PREFACE
The Zambia Social Recovery Project (Credit 2273-ZA) of US$20.0 million was
approved on June 24, 1991 and became effective on August 16, 1991. Due to fluctuations in
the SDR rate, US$20.74 million was actually disbursed. The credit closed on July 31,1998,
one year after the original closing date of July 31, 1997. As of January 15, 1999, there is a
balance of about US$21,340.96 in the credit account, which will be canceled. Co-financing
for the project was provided by the Govermment of Finland (US$0.55 million), Swedish
Intemational Development Authority (US$0.79 million), and the Royal Govemment of
Norway (US $2.2 million). The European Community (EC) financed about US$16.8 million
of the project costs.
Preparation of the ICR was undertaken by a Bank completion mission that took place
in August-September 1998. The completion mission consisted of Maryam Salim (AFTH1),
Julia Van Domelen (HDNSP), Leo Sinke (architect, bank consultant), Clement Siamatowe
(operations officer, AFMZM), Brighton Musungwa (financial specialist, AFMZM), George
Sikazwe (procurement/disbursement officer, AFMZM), and Gita Gopal (mission leader,
AFTH4). Mr. Laurence Clarke, resident representative, provided overall guidance to the
mission. John Ngwafon (AFTII) and Bruce Jones contributed to the ICR, based on their
previous missions to Zambia. Shella James (AFTH4) and Vanessa Saldanha (AFTH1) also
contributed to preparation of the ICR. The ICR is based on mission findings resulting from
field visits by mission members and interviews with a variety of stakeholders, including those
taking place at a stakeholder meeting in Lusaka to discuss the achievements of the project. In
addition, the team has relied on materials in the project files, a number of studies conducted
by independent consultants, and a series of beneficiary assessments. Comments on the draft
ICR were received from Marguerite Salah (AFTH1), Alan Dock (AFTH2), Steen Jorgensen
(HDNSP), Jaime Biderman (AFTS 1), Stephen Brushette (AFTT1), and Patrick Murphy
(AFTH1). The ICR was reviewed by Ruth Kagia (sector manager, AFTH1) and Phyllis
Pomerantz (country director for Zambia). It was also reviewed at a country team meeting
before finalization. Co-financiers were consulted during the mission and did not provide any
comments on the ICR.
The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by supporting the completion
mission in its activities as well as by preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution,
whose executive summary is included as Appendix B. The borrower's comments of
November 20, 1998 have been incorporated into this final report.



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR
PART I: EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Project description and objectives. The Social Recovery Project I (SRP I) was one
important initiative of the Zambian government's poverty reduction program. Through
involvement of communities in the planning, design, and implementation of subprojects, the
project would rehabilitate and improve existing infrastructure, improve delivery of services,
strengthen communities, and rekindle the spirit of self-help. The SRP I consisted of three
main components:
*  Community initiatives (US$41.2 million). IDA financed US$18.2 million of this
component, which expanded and developed the existing European Communities
(EC)-funded program supporting small, simple, and locally generated microprojects
for poor or vulnerable groups.
*  Institutional support. This component financed the project's administrative costs of
US$2.9 million. IDA was expected to finance US$1.8 million.
v  Analysis and monitoring (US$2.2 million). This component, financed by the Royal
Government of Norway, was intended to improve the information base and analysis
for the government's plans and policies in the social sectors.
2.    SRP I substantially achieved its major objectives. One of the most striking
achievements of the SRP was its success at expanding and demonstrating, on a wide scale, an
institutional mechanism that effectively supported community-initiated and demand-based
development. It demonstrated the potential of galvanizing local communities into action in
cofinancing and implementing simple microprojects and confirmed the benefits of local
commitment and ownership created through such a participatory approach.
3.    In particular, the community initiatives component helped to rehabilitate and improve
facilities. Within the education sector, the IDA credit financed a total of 213 new classrooms,
993 rehabilitations, and 159 completions of partially constructed classrooms. Seventy-two
office spaces were added or upgraded, and 434 teacher houses were either built or
rehabilitated. Approximately 170,000 schoolchildren benefited from enhanced services under
these IDA-financed school projects. A 1996 study found that the Microprojects Unit's
(MPU's) efforts up to that date had accounted for the largest number of school rehabilitations
of all sources, reaching 602 schools or about 16 percent of the existing stock. Evaluations
indicated that services improved as a result of these activities. Before the microprojects,
forty-five schools said that they had turned away about 6,424 grade 1 applicants; after
receiving assistance, only 3,320 were turned away. In the schools surveyed, teachers
increased in number by about 12 percent and trained teachers by about 9 percent. The
predominant effects cited by beneficiaries were the improved learning environment, better
hygiene facilities, better student performance, an increased influx of teachers, and better
teacher morale. Evidence is mixed on enrollment effects; most data point to a slight decrease,
although less than observed in the current trend at the national level.
4.    Within health projects, more than 660,000 community members benefited from IDA-
financed interventions. In the health sector, 58 health centers received MPU financing. In
addition, 10 health training centers were built or improved, 10 wards were extended on



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                           i
existing facilities, and 76 staff houses were constructed or rehabilitated. Client visits
increased from 20,520 to 39,311 in the sampled health facilities for maternal and child health
care. Child immunizations increased by 318 percent, outpatient treatment by 73 percent, and
in-patient treatment by 232 percent, according to a verification/facility survey. Beneficiaries
believed that the primary impact was on increased admissions to facilities and improved
medical services, reduced congestion at centers, reduced child mortality, and increased
productivity of staff. In both health and education, communities noted the reduction in
distances to access facilities. In addition to the direct benefits of the microproj ect benefits,
there were significant spillover effects. Within the water and sanitation sector, 362 wells and
boreholes were drilled or rehabilitated, the vast majority of which were based in schools and
health centers. An additional 1,657 VIP latrines and 133 ablution blocks were built or
renovated.
5.    The analysis and monitoring component partially achieved its objectives. The study
subcomponent financed useful studies that impacted on a number of policies and
strengthened research capacity within the country, bringing the poverty dialogue to the
forefront. This subcomponent also conducted a number of beneficiary assessments that fed
into the fine-tuning of procedures for the community initiatives component, thereby
significantly enhancing its developmental impact. The survey subcomponent supported the
government in gathering inforrnation on social conditions and bringing the poverty dialogue
to center stage in national planning. It conducted two planned surveys and produced
comprehensive data on poverty. This subcomponent, however, did not complete all planned
surveys and was not able to provide the data in a user-friendly manner for policymakers.
6.    Implementation experience and results. Implementation experience was
satisfactory. A total of 424 microprojects were funded by all of the financiers of the SRP I
program; 373 were financed by the IDA credit. These community initiatives strengthened
beneficiary communities and other local organizations and served as pilot test approaches for
demand-driven, community-initiated interventions. After the mid-term review, the project
allocated funds for capacity building and institutional support, strengthening provincial and
district staff capacity, which was relevant to government aims of decentralization and
devolution of responsibility to districts. Availability of counterpart funding was a persistent
issue, as was the fact that the decentralization process in the country did not progress well;
nevertheless, MPU satisfactorily managed project implementation. It proactively identified
issues, addressed them in a timely manmer, and helped to ensure that the project achieved its
objectives. The performance of both the Bank and borrower was satisfactory. There were
periods during which the Bank could have provided greater support, but this does not seem to
have harmed project implementation. In the case of the analysis and monitoring component,
despite the overall positive outcome described in the above paragraph, implementation
experience was only marginally satisfactory due to a variety of reasons elaborated in the text.
7.    Future operations. To ensure greater sustainability of services and maintenance of
infrastructure, under its SRP II project, MPU will continue to increase awareness among
district officials and teams and, in particular, among community associations on the
importance of maintenance and availability of recurrent costs. To the extent possible, it will
introduce the maintenance manual and conduct training in microprojects financed also under
SRP I. This process will be continuous, and MPU will continue to reflect related activities in
their reports. As part of evaluations conducted before the closing of SRP II, MPU will also
evaluate sustainability issues under SRP I projects. It has also been agreed with the
government that before winding down the study fund, the advisor will ensure that abstracts



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                               iii
for all studies conducted under the SRP I are finalized and approved by the study.fund
committee.
8.    Key lessons. The project successfully demonstrated the extent to which poor
communities can effectively operate as their own development agents and reconfirmed the
benefits of stakeholder participation and capacity building at the local levels. This had a
significant demonstration effect in that the approach has been replicated in other initiatives.
The long-term impacts of increased local capacity, improved quality, and sustainability of
investments outweigh the higher cost and longer gestation period required to build in such a
focus. In the absence of an effective decentralization process, this demand-based,
community-initiated approach of the social fund is a complement to other programs and
projects that adopt a more top-down approach. Lessons relating to social funds include:
*  Institutional linkages. A social fund needs to build effective institutional linkages to
ensure coherence and sustainability. This is important at the macro level in linkages
with sector ministries regarding policies and coordination but also at the local and
community levels to guarantee that projects are consistent with local characteristics.
*  Unified set of policies. A social fund must be allowed to operate with a unified set of
policies, strategies, and operating procedures cQmpared with its various financing
agencies. Discrepancies among the policies of various financiers can hinder efficient
implementation and have generated operational problems.
*  Technical quality. Project quality increases substantially with the time and technical
resources dedicated to supervision. Ensuring quality of infrastructure is a challenge
that needs to be closely monitored in such projects. To ensure quality of works and to
compensate for limited local capacity, technical supervisors must be paid for their
services and be present at every project site.
*  Sustainability. Recurrent cost issues in the sector will affect sustainability of social
fund microprojects. This can be mitigated to some extent through increased
ownership and commitment of communities, which manifests itself in a willingness
to contribute toward minor upkeep and maintenance. It is important, however, that
their roles and responsibilities are defined and agreed on and that technical capacity
and knowledge are developed. The maintenance strategy and manuals prepared by
SRP are a useful initiative.
*  Flexibility in functioning. Equal in importance to the initial design of the institution
is its ability to learn and adapt. If the level of effectiveness and quality of MPU
operations during its first year had continued, SRP I outcome would have been
unsatisfactory. Instead, MPU's flexibility enabled it to respond to recommendations
and improve its operations.



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                         I
PART II: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1.    PROJECT BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES. Zambia's economy flourished
during the copper boom until the sharp fall of world copper prices in the mid-1970s led to a
severe decline in the country's terms of trade. The consequent economic decline led to severe
deterioration of public services and social indicators. To address the problems that the poor
faced and cushion the impact of the economic adjustment program, the government launched
a social action program for 1990-93 as an integral part of its overall adjustment strategy. The
latter was presented to the April 1990 consultative group meeting. The social action program
was intended to improve the availability of social services and employment opportunities of
the poor in the short run and to begin initiatives in policy analysis and reform that would
result in better service delivery in the long run. It emphasized rehabilitation and repair of
basic infrastructure, which had become seriously dilapidated due to lack of maintenance.
2.    Zambia began following an IMF-endorsed program in 1990 and received support
from the World Bank through the Economy Recovery Program in 1991. In addition to
resuming the adjustment program, there was a need to promote the goals of the SAP in the
short run. The Bank team noted a number of constraints to providing immediate responses to
pressing social sector problems, including the lack of poverty-focused data and analysis. In
addition, traditional interventions would not necessarily have benefited vulnerable groups
because it was not clear who would be affected by specific policy changes and how.
3.    To give the government time to carefully design sector programs, therefore, the Bank
team agreed to provide immediate assistance that would have an impact on the poor. The
Social Recovery Project (SRP1), thus, proposed financing the implementation of a series of
small-scale, community-based initiatives that would transfer resources efficiently and
effectively to local communities and, at the same time, pilot interventions that would
generate critical data about local capacities and conditions.
4.    The SAR estimated costs of the Social Recovery Project (SRP1) at US$46.4 million,
out of which IDA was expected to finance US$20 million; EC, US$15 million; Norway,
US$2.2 million; and Zambia, US$9.1 million. To date, SRP I disbursed a total of US$20.75
million, out of which US$15 million funded microprojects (the SAR estimate is US$18.2
million). The shortfall was a result of reallocation toward capacity-building activities not
foreseen at appraisal. The actual cofinancing contributions from Norway and EC were
US$2.2 million and US$16.8 respectively.
5.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES. SRP1 expanded and developed the existing European
Communities (EC)-funded program to assist the Zambian government in its poverty
reduction programs. By involving communities in the planning, design, and implementation
of subprojects, the project was intended to rehabilitate and improve existing infrastructure,
improve delivery of services, strengthen communities, and rekindle the spirit of self-help.
The SRP1 consisted of three components:
Community initiatives component (US$41.2 million). IDA financed US$18.2
million of this component, which supported small, simple, and locally generated
microprojects for poor or vulnerable groups.



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                           2
*  Institutional support component. This component financed the project's
administrative costs of US$2.9 million. IDA was expected to finance US$1.8 million.
*  Analysis and monitoring component (US$2.2 million). This component, financed
by the Royal Govermnent of Norway, was intended to improve the information base
and analysis for the government's plans and policies in the social sectors.
6.    Project objectives were clear, realistic, and integrated into the government's overall
strategy. The main risk recognized in the staff appraisal report (report No. 9471-ZA) related
to the limited implementation capacity of the government. Encouraging simplicity in
subproject design, building on local and regional initiatives, and providing support for the
MPU that executed the project were expected to minimize this risk.
7.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES. SRPI substantially achieved its major
objectives. One of the most striking achievements was its success at demonstrating an
effective institutional mechanism that supported community initiatives from the bottom up - a
demand-based approach. After mid-term review, the project allocated funds for capacity
building and institutional support, making a major contribution to strengthening provincial
and district staff capacity, which was relevant to government aims of decentralization and
devolution of responsibility to districts. It built and strengthened communities to design,
implement, and manage small and simple rnicroprojects.
8.    In particular, the community initiatives component delivered significant benefits in
improving infrastructure and delivery of services. Within the education sector, the IDA credit
financed a total of 213 new classrooms, 993 rehabilitations, and 159 completions of partially
constructed classrooms. Seventy-two office spaces were added or upgraded, and 434 teachers
houses were either built or rehabilitated. Approximately 170,000 schoolchildren benefited
from enhanced services under these IDA-financed school projects. A 1996 study found that
MPU efforts to that date had accounted for the largest number of school rehabilitations of all
sources, reaching 602 schools or about 16 percent of the existing stock. Before the
microprojects, forty-five schools said that they had turned away about 6,424 grade 1
applicants; after receiving assistance, only 3,320 were turned away. Teachers increased by
about 12 percent, and trained teachers increased in these schools by about 9 percent in the
schools surveyed. The predominant effects cited by beneficiaries were the improved learning
environment, better hygiene facilities, better student performance, an increased influx of
teachers, and better teacher morale. Evidence is mixed on enrollment effects, with most data
pointing to a slight decrease, although less than observed at the national level.
9.    Within health projects, more than 660,000 community members benefited from IDA-
financed interventions. In the health sector, 58 health centers received MPU financing. In
addition, 10 health training centers were built or improved, 10 wards were extended on
existing facilities, and 76 staff houses were constructed or rehabilitated. Client visits
increased from 20,520 to 39,311 in the sampled health facilities for maternal and child health
care. Child immunization increased by 318 percent, outpatient treatment by 73 percent, and
in-patient treatment by 232 percent, according to a recently conducted verification/facility
survey. Beneficiaries believed that the primary impact was on increased admissions to
facilities and improved medical services, reduced congestion at centers, reduced child
mortality, and increased productivity of staff. In both health and education, communities
noted the reduction in distances to access facilities. Within the water and sanitation sector,
362 wells and boreholes were drilled or rehabilitated, the vast majority of which were based



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                           3
in schools and health centers. In addition, 1,657 VIP latrines and 133 ablution blocks were
built or renovated.
10.   The analysis and monitoring component partially achieved its objectives. The study
subcomponent financed useful studies that impacted a number of policies and strengthened
research capacity within the country, bringing the poverty dialogue to center stage. It also
conducted a number of beneficiary assessments that fed into the fine-tuning of procedures for
the community initiatives component, thereby significantly enhancing its developmental
impact. The survey subcomponent supported the government in gathering information on
social conditions and in strengthening the poverty dialogue in national planning. The surveys
subcomponent, however, did not complete all planned surveys and was not able to provide
the data in a user-friendly manner for policymakers.
Table 1. Cost-Effectiveness of SRP Microproject
m2 rate* in US$
SRP               SRP           Sector Ministry**
Classroom*                   128               n.a.                184
Ablution block waterborne   285                463                 518
Staffhouse                  216                248                 311
Health center*               300               495                 476
* Including furniture/equipment
I *information from Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project and Health Sector Support Project
11.   IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT. A total of 424 microprojects were funded by all of the financiers of the SRP I
program, with 373 financed by the IDA credit. The average size of a microproject was
US$51,273 higher than the appraisal estimate of US$40,000, resulting in a lower number of
total projects than anticipated. The SAR expected funds to be distributed by sector as
follows: health and nutrition, 55 percent; education and training, 25 percent; and economic
infrastructure, 20 percent, although these targets were indicative. As community demands
were articulated and presented, the actual sectoral distribution was substantially different,
with education accounting for 70 percent of microproject financing, health and nutrition for
19 percent, water for 7 percent, economic infrastructure for 3 percent, and others for 1
percent. Possible reasons for this result include (a) the perceived importance of education in
poor communities, (b) the prior existence of local parent-teacher associations (PTAs), which
served as important focal points around which to organize community initiatives, (c) the fact
that education and health subprojects always included a water point, meeting more than
education and health needs, and (d) the fact that most initiatives were generated by word of
mouth among communities.
12.   Institutional costs were higher than anticipated at appraisal. They were, however, still
within acceptable limits because they included costs for capacity-building exercises that were
essential for the success of SRP activities, additional staff for decentralizing a number of
responsibilities for implementation and supervision, and an MIS Unit, a full-time
procurement officer, and task assistants for regional officers. SRP also subsidized some of
the operational expenses for the EU-funded microprojects component by financing ten out of



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                           4
twelve regional offices and its activities. Reviews undertaken by the mission also confirm
that MPU's average microproject costs are lower than those undertaken by the se6tor
ministry for similar microprojects (see Table 1).
13.   The quality of infrastructure was a concern but was closely monitored and addressed
throughout the project. Technical evaluations were carried out in 1994 and 1996. The 1994
report found that only about 60 percent of microprojects had a standard of construction that
was adequate, good, or very good. SRP, therefore, insisted that a paid technical supervisor be
present at every project site. In 1996 a second evaluation indicated that this measure had paid
off. Eighty-nine percent of the microprojects had a standard of construction that was
adequate, good, or very good, and microprojects in both urban and rural locations showed
substantial improvement in the quality of construction and community capacity to manage
microprojects. Areas for greater strengthening or focus included preventive maintenance of
buildings, health education in water projects or around water/sanitation components of
projects, understanding of the design and operation of latrines, and, in some cases,
rehabilitation of buildings with inherent structural defects. These concerns have been
addressed since 1996.
14.   Factors not generally subject to government control. Due to differing financial
policies, collaboration, and linkages between the community initiative component financed
by SRP and the Microprojects Program financed by the European Union (EU) resulted in
some confusion during the early stages. Four months after credit effectiveness, the EU
delegate expressed concerns about the previously agreed changes in operating procedures of
the community initiatives component (i.e., revised appraisal, supervision, and monitoring),
including the necessary increases in staff. Initial progress in the component was also affected
by EU's desire to monitor and, where necessary, veto decisions made by MPU, leading to
delays in reviewing the draft administrative agreement that outlined MPU functioning. In
January 1992 EU requested that the two programs be implemented separately because they
could not support any staff increases as well the procedures for supervision of projects. Based
on these discussions and on a request from the government, the Bank team drew up parallel
structures for the implementation of the SRP and EC microprojects program, using different
procedures but the same administrative and logistical support structures.
15.   In 1992 Zambia experienced a severe drought; this affected most of the country as
well as project activities that involved high levels of community participation and
contribution. Following the March 1992 consultative group meeting, it was agreed that the
SRP would pay for the unskilled labor contributed by the communities during the period of
the drought. In quarterly reports submitted by the SRP in March and August 1992, it was
determined that the communities still contributed more than 20 percent of the total cost of the
subprojects even with the payment for labor.
16.   The project was expected to disburse over a six-year period (1991-97) with the
project closing on July 31, 1997. The government believed all resources had been committed
but leamed in May 1997 of an exchange rate gain between the dollar and the special drawing
rights (SDR) that resulted in a balance of US$1.5 million in the credit. The government
applied for a one-year extension for the project to use the balance to fund some new
microprojects, as well as complete certain ongoing ones. As a result, they were able to fund
nine larger additional microprojects.
17.   Factors generally subject to government control. The Government of Zambia
announced an ambitious decentralization process around the time the SRP was designed. This



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                           5
process, however, did not progress as expected, leaving the SRP in a position in which it was
required to utilize district councils and provincial planning units that were technically weak
and did not have the logistics support to play an effective role.
18.   Government counterpart funds were a problem throughout project implementation,
particularly in the initial years. It was only in April 1994 that the government released funds
(one hundred million kwacha) to the project to meet part of its outstanding commitment (SRP
Mid-term Review, 1994). In 1992, however, it was decided that the interest that had accrued
on the special account would be used as the government's contribution. Also, an amendment
to the Development Credit Agreement permitted 100 percent financing of microprojects,
because the government exempted all SRP goods from local taxes, reducing the problems.
These measures also reduced the impact of the unavailability of counterpart funds. In
addition, MPU, initially based in the National Commission for Development Planning
(NCDP) under the direction of the Permanent Secretary, had little interaction with the
officials of NCDP. In addition, NCDP failed to provide adequate office space for the proper
functioning of the unit until April 1994.
19.   Factors generally subject to implementing agency control. A number of issues
arose during the initial years, affecting technical quality and sustainability of microprojects.
These included the lack of institutional linkages with local and community agents, lack of
capacity at decentralized levels to provide adequate monitoring and technical support, and
ensuring accountability at the local levels. The management team of the SRP, however, dealt
with these problems effectively with support from the Bank at mid-term. These issues were
identified by mid-term, and a number of mechanisms were incorporated, including project
launch workshops for each microproject community, strengthening technical and facilitation
capacity of district agents, and increased management capacity of MPU.
20.   The SAR indicates that the Bank expected nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) to
participate in the implementation, although no significant role was anticipated. It was felt that
NGO involvement resulted sometimes in confusion about microproject ownership and
increased dependence of communities on NGOs, whereas when microproject funds were
directly handed over to the communities, it significantly increased their self-confidence and
capacity. Also, reportedly, NGOs were not fully committed to this approach of the SRP and
often wanted more say in project implementation than SRP's mandate warranted. The SRP
unit, however, did not make any attempt to reconcile these differences through workshops
focused on the NGO role, perhaps because of its ability to utilize the funds effectively
through community groups.
21.   SUSTAINABILITY. Sustainability of SRP microprojects is uncertain. The two
fundamental issues regarding sustainability are whether the infrastructure is maintained to
maximize its effective life cycle and whether the services offered are continued over time.
22.   Maintenance has been a chronic problem in social sector investments in Zambia. The
large demand for rehabilitation of health centers and schools stems in part from years of
forgone maintenance and repair. MPU took a number of steps within its capacity to increase
the likelihood of sustainability. During the initial stages, vandalism was a major problem;
increased community ownership and commitment has helped to reduce vandalism
significantly in MPU schools. MPU has also sought to ensure the protection of its
investments by establishing responsibility for maintenance at the community level. It
conducted a study to identify the constraints to maintenance. It facilitated the formulation of
a maintenance strategy. Based on this strategy and through discussion with other



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                             6
stakeholders, it produced a Maintenance Manual to inform and train committees of their
responsibilities and duties. Efforts have been redoubled to have maintenance cornmittees
established within each project and initiate the collection of a maintenance fund. MPU is also
initiating a maintenance training program for district staff. The chances that these subprojects
will be maintained are, therefore, high, particularly in the case of small repairs.
23.   Strong evidence exists that the services provided within the infrastructure will also be
sustainable. In 1994 MPU decentralized the process of project selection to the district staff,
assisted by the MPU regional officer, to ensure district staff involvement from the beginning
and guarantee recurrent cost requirements in terms of additional staff and inputs. MPU
emphasized strengthening capacity of and transferring increased responsibilities to district
staff and communities, creating a sense of local ownership and responsibility that is fairly
universal. Several studies have noted this evolution from a situation in which district staff
were not involved or committed to the process to a situation in which district staff are much
more integrated. Recent evidence shows an increase in the number of teachers and health
personnel following an SRP intervention. In health facilities, there is increased drug supply
and availability of family planning services has been enhanced.
24.   Despite all the above positive measures, sustainability of microprojects is still rated
as uncertain. Sustainability of social fund projects depends to a great extent on well-
fimctioning social sectors and cannot be isolated from issues of recurrent cost budgets in
these sectors. Although additional measures for enhancing sustainability have been taken in
SRP microprojects and sector investments are ongoing or being appraised, it is too early to
conclude that sustainability is likely. Sustainability is, thus, still rated as uncertain.
25.   As one of four measures for ensuring sustainability (SAR), the credit agreement
included a covenant that the government would provide evidence that it had increased in real
terms the annual budgetary allocation for nonremuneration recurrent costs for health and
education. This covenant was not complied with fully. At the same time, it must be noted that
a series of adjustment credits negotiated between the Bank and the government during the
period 1992-97 also included conditionality on the government budget for education and
health. The conditions in the adjustment credits related to the percentages of Ministry of
Finance releases, which would be devoted in particular years to the social sectors (education,
health, community development, and water and sewage and were met.
26.   BANK PERFORMANCE. The project was identified in October 1990, presented to
the Board by June 1991, and became effective August 1991. The quick processing of the
project, particularly during a time of need for Zambia and when relations had only recently
resumed, was commendable. Bank performance during identification and preparation is rated
as highly satisfactory. The project built and strengthened an innovative approach that
involved beneficiaries directly in project identification and implementation. This approach
encouraged flexibility in the application of Bank procedures to meet the desired objectives.
The pre-appraisal mission consisted of a multisectoral team, which established baseline
information on the social sectors and for poverty information. Bank performance during
appraisal is satisfactory. The project design was kept simple, and procedures were clearly
documented. The institutional mechanism was well suited to the activities proposed under the
project. The need for capacity building at the local levels, however, was foreseen only at mid-
term and then addressed immediately.
27.   Bank support during the implementation phase is on the whole satisfactory. In the
period leading to mid-terrn, supervision could be rated as highly satisfactory, with reviews



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                           7
taking place every three to four months. Issues such as capacity building and increasing
management skills and size were identified, and corrective steps incorporated. Th'e borrower
felt that Bank supervision was not as rigorous in the later years. Problems relate to task
managers with multiple tasks coupled with limited supervision budgets, resulting in less time
for the supervision of the SRP. The borrower also noted that they did not receive the
expected support from the resident mission in the early years, partly because the resident
mission did not have adequate personnel. Also, the borrower noted that they were unable to
fully avail themselves of SEK8 million provided by the Swedish government, because the
Bank did not make the funds originally earmarked available.
28.   BORROWER PERFORMANCE The govemment should be commended for
permitting MPU to operate in an independent manner ensuring technical excellence and
keeping MPU from being affected by national or local political interests. Nevertheless,
government performance is rated as marginally satisfactory for two reasons. First, as
discussed earlier in the text, the government did not provide the counterpart funding in a
timely manner. Second, although most legal covenants were complied with, the borrower did
not fully comply with or report on the covenant discussed in paragraph 25. The Bank's
supervision teams also did not identify this deficiency or seek such information.
29.   The performance of MPU was highly satisfactory. MPU staff at all levels displayed a
great deal of professionalism and commitment. MPU displayed a remarkable openness in that
they have subjected themselves and their implementation capacities and procedures to
constant reviews by independent consultants. Notably, recommendations made in such
studies were examined and implemented and further studies conducted to evaluate the impact
of such revised procedures. The regional officers were obviously well informed about their
areas and projects and greatly appreciated by the communities visited. District staff who were
met during the mission also displayed significant knowledge about MPU and commitment to
"working in the MPU way." Communities reiterated the importance of the technical guidance
and support they received from district staff, in particular the district planning officers. Field
studies indicated that communities and district officials generally viewed MPU as a
facilitator/supporter of community effort, whereas the community perceived itself as
retaining ownership of the microprojects infrastructure.
30.   MPU forged close linkages with sector officials at the district level and strong
partnerships with communities and succeeded in coordinating with the health ministry.
Despite efforts, however, MPU was not successful in facilitating such linkages with the
Ministry of Education at the central level as it seems to have established with the Ministry of
Health. An appreciation of the demand-based approach, thus, did not take place at this level,
even though the SRP spent 70 percent of its funds in the education sector. However, an
independent evaluation found that although the MPU has forged linkages at the district level,
vertical flow of information within sector ministries was inadequate, and concluded that
government sector ministries should address this issue.
31.   Regarding the analysis and poverty monitoring component, borrower and Bank
performance was satisfactory in the management of the study fund. A study fund committee
was established with stakeholders from governmental and nongovemmental agencies, which
established guidelines and procedures for appraising research proposals. Also, the study fund
began a process of automatically sending proposals they received to the concerned
institutions to ensure the study covered an area, which they deemed relevant.



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                           8
32.   An independent evaluation of the survey subcomponent indicated three concems. The
analysis of data was not undertaken in a user-friendly manner for politicians, policymakers,
and administrators. There was inadequate focus on the social aspects of the change of living
conditions. Cost efficiency was less than expected. Lack of familiarity with procurement and
expenditure rules led to a suspension of funding for eighteen months. Given the above,
borrower and Bank performance is rated as marginally unsatisfactory under this
subcomponent, even though the outcome was satisfactory.
33.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME. Overall, the outcome of the microproject
component is satisfactory. Improvements in infrastructure and delivery of services have
already been discussed earlier. It has demonstrated successfully the demand-based and
community-initiated and -managed approach to development interventions. The success of its
approach is demonstrated by the fact that under the Bank-financed Roads and Environment
Projects, MPU has been delegated the task of implementing and piloting community-based
components in these sectors, and other donors are also adopting this approach. Beneficiary
assessments (BAs) and other evaluations confirm the extent to which and how the poor were
participating in microprojects. BA Im found that 83 percent of respondents felt that the needs
of the community were identical with the chosen project. BA IV found that in 92 percent of
cases, community members felt that microprojects corresponded with community needs. The
fact that communities were required to mobilize about 25 percent of total project costs either
in cash or through donated labor and materials further confirms the importance of the
microprojects to the community.
34.   The successful implementation of projects also relied on the effective intervention of
district officials and technical staff. From the outset, district technical staff were brought into
the field and desk appraisal processes. Further innovations included the involvement of
district staff in microproject implementation and training them in facilitation and technical
skills. SRP connected communities with their respective district councils and govemment
line departments, enabling local agencies to work more closely with communities even on
non-SRP projects. Involvement of district staff in the SRP program has generally created a
sense of ownership. As this has evolved, the last BA reported that district staff now regard
SRP-funded activities as the govemment's and, therefore, their own. As envisioned in the
SAR, the strengthening of the capacity of district staff has served as a pilot, allowing
government, district councils, and some donors to test the intervention.
35.   Despite the weak implementation experience of the survey subcomponent, the overall
outcome is still satisfactory. The subcomponent conducted two out of the four planned
surveys in 1991 and 1993, although the two were much broader than the ones planned,
making poverty reduction a key issue in the development strategy. Comprehensive data sets
have been produced and made available on a number of variables relevant for poverty
analyses at the district level. The survey subcomponent successfully brought all data users
together to utilize one instrument in the collection of socioeconomic data for multiple users.
A data users' committee reviews the instruments and makes modifications to ensure that the
surveys collect information to meet their needs. Capacity has also been built both at the
central and provincial levels. The overall outcome of this component is satisfactory, although
Bank and borrower performance is rated as unsatisfactory for reasons noted in paragraph 32.
36.   The overall outcome of the studyfund subcomponent is highly satisfactory. It
conducted a total of thirty-four studies, of which eleven are listed as priority studies and
twenty-three as smaller studies. Table 9 provides the list of studies and explains their
impacts. Two of the priority studies listed in the SAR were not undertaken. The thirty-four



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                           9
studies commissioned examined a cross section of issues in poverty, economics, health,
education, and agriculture, to name a few. Measures were also taken to increase the
involvement of public institutions and government ministries in conceptualizing and
executing research. The biggest accomplishment of the study fund has been the building of
capacity among Zambian researchers, resulting in improved quality of the reports over the
last few years.
37.   FUTURE OPERATIONS. The project also set in motion processes that have helped
to decentralize operations, transferring responsibilities for appraisal and making
recommendations for financing. It strengthened district functionaries, creating a demand for
the top-down decentralization process that is under way in Zambia. To ensure greater
sustainability of services and maintenance of infrastructure, under its SRP II project, MPU
will continue to create awareness among district officials and teams and in particular among
community associations. MVU will evaluate maintenance and service delivery in SRP I
microprojects and, wherever possible, introduce the maintenance manual and conduct
training. MPU will report on such activities. The study fund will also ensure that abstracts for
all studies conducted under the SRP I are finalized, approved by the study fund committee,
and published. Under SRP II, possibilities for institutionalizing the fund are being explored.
38.   LESSONS LEARNED. In the absence of an effective decentralization process, this
demand-based, community-initiated and -implemented approach adopted by SRP
complemented other programs and even resulted in providing an impetus for decentralization.
The project successfully demonstrated the extent to which poor communities can effectively
participate in cofinancing, managing, and maintaining simple development microprojects. It
reconfirmed the benefits of community and stakeholder participation and capacity building at
the local levels. It clearly indicates that increased local capacity and community ownership
increase the chances of sustainability of investments and that these benefits far outweigh the
higher costs in generating such an impact.
39.   A number of lessons emerge on institutional arrangements. A social fund needs to
build institutional linkages both horizontally and vertically. This is important not only to
ensure macro-level linkages with sector ministries regarding policies and coordination but
also at the local levels to guarantee that projects are consistent with local and community
characteristics. Also, MPU's success is owed to the fact that it was provided with the
flexibility to learn, adapt, and improve its operations. If it continued to function as it did in
the beginning, the project outcome would have been unsatisfactory.
40.   A social fund cannot operate in isolation and will be affected by general problems
affecting the sectors. The adverse impact on sustainability can be mitigated to some extent
through increased ownership and commitment of communities, which manifests itself in a
willingness to contribute toward minor upkeep and maintenance. It is important, however,
that the roles and responsibilities of community and other local stakeholders are defined and
agreed on and that technical capacity and knowledge are developed. The maintenance
strategy and manuals prepared by SRP are a useful initiative in this exercise and will be of
value to other similar projects. SRP's insistence on ensuring paid technical supervisors at
every project site generated results and was effective; they increased the quality of the
microprojects significantly. Also, a social fund needs to operate with a unified set of policies,
strategies, and operating procedures compared with other financing agencies. Discrepancies
among the policies of various financiers can hinder efficient implementation and generate
operational problems.



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                                 10
PART III: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table IA. Summary of Assessments
S~bstaiIi~I     Nigibtea NM/ 
A. Achievement of Objectives
Macroeconomic policies                                                    X
Sector policies                                            X
Financial objectives            X
Institutional development                    X
Physical objectives                          X
Poverty reduction                            X
Gender issues                                                            NA
Other social objectives                      X
Environmental objectives                                                 NA
Public sector management                                                 NA
Private sector development                                               NA
Community Empowerment           X
|. .. Projec Sutiablt-
Preparation assistance   XeME'I
.M.
B Project Sustainability                                      X
C. Bank performance
Identification                  X
Preparation assistance          X
Appraisal                                    X
Supervision                                  X
D. Borrower performance
Preparation                     X
Implementation
Government                                X
Implementing Agency           X
Covenant compliance                          X
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of outcome                        X



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                              11
Table 1B. Summary of Assessments: Community Initiatives Component
A. Achievement of Objectives
Macroeconomic policies                                                   X
Sector policies                                           X
Financial objectives            X
Institutional development       X
Physical objectives                          X
Poverty reduction                            X
Gender issues                                                           NA
Other social objectives                      X
Environmental objectives                                                NA
Public sector management                                                NA
Private sector development                                              NA
Community Empowerment           X
,..~~    ~     ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .............
B. Project Sustainability                                     X
C. Bank Performance                             X
D. Boffower Performance
Gover-nment                                      X
Implementing Agency                X
E. Assessment of outcome                        X



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                                 12
Table 1C. Summary of Assessments: Poverty Monitoring and Analysis Component:
Surveys Subcomponent
A. Achievement of Objectives
Macroeconomic policies                       X
Sector policies                              X
Financial objectives                                                      NA
Institutional development                                   X
Physical objectives                          X
Poverty reduction                                                         NA
Gender issues                                                             NA
Other social objectives                                                   NA
Environmental objectives                                                  NA
Public sector management                                                   NA
Private sector development                                                NA
Other (pcfr
B. Project Sustainability                                       X
C. Bank Performance                                             X
D. Borrower Performance                                         X
E. Assessment of outcome                         X



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                                13
Table 1D. Summary of Assessments: Poverty Monitoring and Analysis Component
and Studies Subcomponent
A. Achievement of Objectives
Macroeconomic policies                       X
Sector policies                              X
Financial objectives                                                      NA
Institutional development      X
Physical objectives            X
Poverty reduction                                                         NA
Gender issues                                                             NA
Other social objectives                                                   NA
Environmental objectives                                                  NA
Public sector management                                                  NA
Private sector development                                                NA
B. Project Sustainability                                      X
C. Bank Performance                             X
D. Borrower Performance                         X
E. Assessment of outcome          X



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                                                                                14
Table 2. Related Bank Credits
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Past Operations
Education Rehabilitation                   The project will support government in its efforts to reverse the  1992       Closed
(Cr. 2429)                                 continued deterioration of the education system and to sustain               06/30/98
US$32 million                              education revitalization in a context of severe fiscal austerity. The
project has three interrelated components. The first focuses on
qualitative renewal and would support the provision of leaning and
teaching materials and improvements in examination quality and
management. The second component consists of rehabilitation and
constmction of physical facilities in primary schools, which would
increase access and improve the education environment. The third is
a planning and management component which would strengthen
professional and administrative support to teachers and to schools,
establish an infonnation management system including a system for
maintaining teacher's records, and undertake a series of policy
studies that are essential to planning further development of the
sector. Project conditionality would ensure increased budgetary
allocation to education, whereas project implementation would
buttress government efforts to involve the nongovernmental sector in
education delivery. Given the immense gap between the needed
investments in the sector and the resources available, the proposed
interventions were selected on the basis of their catalytic impact on
education revitalization.
Second Economic & Social Adjustment Credit    The project will support measures that will (a) more firmly establish  1996  Closed
(Cr. 2910)                                 a stable macro economic environment, (b) improve the competitive             01/09/98
US$97.8 million                            position of exporters and rationalize the structure of effective
protection by revising the tariff structure, (c) strengthen markets, in
particular by accelerating the implementation of land market reforms
approved by Parliament in 1995; and d) improve the delivery of vital
social services by strengthening budget priorities for and within the
social sector ministries and by further development and
implementation of policy reforms in these areas.



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                                                                                  15
Education V                                The Fifth Education Project will support the government's program  1982        Closed
(Cr. 1251)                                 for expandingjunior secondary education and providing education               03/31/88
opportunities in rural areas. It will also improve secondary school
maintenance.
On-going Operations
Social Recovery II                         The aim of the project is to assist the government's poverty  1995          Closing
(Cr. 2755)                                 reduction program through financing of community initiatives and            12/31/00
US$30 miillion                             building of capacity for poverty analysis and monitoring. The project
will finance community initiatives which assist the poor and
vulnerable to meet their own objectives during the adjustment period
and thereby allow faster economic and social recovery. The project
will also improve the capacity of conmnunities and government staff
to plan, appraise, manage and maintain investment projects through
the experience gained in such micro-projects. The project will also
enhance the capacity of Zambian institutions to collect and analyze
poverty-related data, both quantitative and qualitative.
Health Sector Support                      The Project will support the process set in motion through the  1994        Closing
(Cr. 2660)                                 government's health reform program, with a view to improving                12/31/00
US$56 million                              access to and the quality of a national package of essential health
services in a decentralized health care delivery system. In this way,
the project aims to improve health outcomes, particularly in terms of
nutritional status, lower fertility, and reduced transmission of HIV.
The credit will be divided into three major components: 1) policy
development support, including support for national policy
development and operational research to help refine the basic policy
framework, and adapt operational strategies to the Zambian context
through phased testing of the delivery systems, operations research
and studies; 2) investment program support, and incremental
recurrent budget support which would support Districts in the
implementation of Health Reforms through their service delivery, for
both capital investment costs and recurrent costs; and 3) external
monitoring and evaluation including support for monitoring progress
attained through health reforms, and evaluation through beneficiary
assessments, auditing, and quality control.



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                                                                                  16
Urban Restructuring and Water Supply       The objectives of the Project are: 1) provide immediate solutions to   1995  Closing
(Cr. 2725)                                 the most severe water and sewerage infrastructure deficiencies in           12/31/01
US$33 million                              nine key urban areas; 2) test out community-generated and managed
water and sanitation demonstration projects which meet articulated
needs at an affordable price while strengthening local councils
capacities to support community based initiatives in Lusaka and the
participating Copperbelt councils; and 3) initiate broader
institutional and financial reforms required for providing
organizational incentives for investing in, operating and maintaining
infrastructure based on residents' perceived needs and willingness to
pay.
Agricultural Sector Investment Program     The Project will be implemented over a four year period and has four  1994  Closing
(Cr. 2698)                                 main components. The first, policy and institutional improvements,          12/31/99
$60 million                                will focus on outstanding policy reforms in key areas of marketing
(eliminating subsidies to marketing parastatals), trade and pricing,
food security, and land use and land tenure. The second component
will undertake public investment to complement and support the
policy and institutional improvements. The third component, private
sector development, will help create an enabling environment and
incentives for the private sector. Finally, the fourth component, pilot
investment schemes, will establish a rural investment fimd to support
small-scale capital investments in rural communities on a matching
grant basis and it would support the privatization of government
farms.
Agricultural Marketing & Processing        The main objectives of this project are to: (a) support and deepen the  1992  Closing
Infrastructure                             implementation of financial reforms initiated under the stabilization       06/30/99
(Cr. 2422)                                 and structural adjustment programs, (b) stimulate private sector
US$ 33 million                             participation in these activities, (c) commercialize these activities by
drastically reducing government involvement, making them more
responsive to free market prices and commercial bank financing and
less dependent on budgetary subsidies, (d) rehabilitate rural roads
and transportation that are essential for increased agricultural
production, (e) rehabilitate, on pilot basis, abandoned and
underutilized commercial farms in areas of high production
potential, and 0 promote women's access to credit and job
I opportunities generated by the project.



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                              17
Table 3. Project Timetable
Identification                                                   October 10, 1990
Preparation                                    November 1990     November 1990
Appraisal                                      May 1991          Feb./March 1991
Negotiations                                                     April 22, 1991
Board Presentation                             October 1991      June 19, 1991
Signing                                                          July24, 1991
Effectiveness                                                    August 16, 1991
Establishment of Special Account                                 August 1991
Changes to the Development Credit Agreement:
*  amendment of schedule 1 to allow for speedier                 July 1992
disbursements
*  amendments to paragraph 1 of schedule 1 to (a)                March 1993
delete the words "of foreign expenditures" in
third column of category (5) and (b) delete
amount "85 percent" appearing in third column
of category (6) and substituting amount of "100
percent"
.  reallocation of funds within categories in table              August 1993
of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
.  reallocation of funds within categories in table              March 1994
of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
*  amendment to raise threshold for local                        January 1994
shopping for civil works and goods
*  amendment to expand scope of operating costs                  October 1994
to be financed by the credit
.  extension of closing date                                     July 14, 1997
Project Completion                             January 31, 1997    January 31, 1997
Closing                                        July31, 1997      July31, 1998



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                                                                              18
Table 4. Credit Disbursements, Estimated and Actuals
(As of September 3, 1998)
Annual          Cumulative      Cum. % of total       Annual           Cumulative      Cum. % of total
FY92              2.1               2.1               10.4              4.05               4.05             20.38
FY93              3.3               5.4               26.8              3.10               7.15             36.01
FY94              4.4'              9.8               48.9              6.52              13.68             68.85
FY95              4.6               14.4              72.0              3.11              16.79             84.50
FY96              4.2               18.6              93.0              1.33              18.66             93.94
FY97               1.0              20.0              100.0             0.599             19.26             96.96
FY98                                                                    1.25              20.51             103.23
FY99                                                                    0.23              20.74             104.39



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                                       19
Table 5A. Project Costs
(US$ millions)
Component         Local Cost  Foreign Cost    Total   Local Cost  Foreign Cost    Total
Community Initiatives    39.6          1.6         41.2        37.2          1.1         38.3
Institutional Support     1.1          1.6           2.7        5.6          0.6          6.2
Analysis & Monitoring     1.1          0.8           1.9        1.7          0.5           2.2
Total Baseline Costs     41.8          4.0          45.8       44.5          2.2          46.7
Physical Contingencies    0.2          0.2           0.4        1.9          0.6           2.5
Price Contingencies       0.1          0.1           0.2        -             --
ToWa                     42.1          4.3          46.4       46.4          2.8          49.2
Table 5B. Project Financing Plan, SAR Estimates and Actual
f(US$ millions)
Zambia   Il)A    EC    Norway  Total  Zambia   IDA    EC    Norway  Total
Sub-project       9.1   18.2   13.9        0      41.2      9.1   15.0  14.2        0      38.3
Institufional     0      1.8    1.1        0       2.9      0.1     6.0   2.6       0       8.7
Support
Analysis &        0      0       0         2.2    2.2       0.0     0.0   0.0       2.2    2.2
M onii torin g
Total             9.1   20.0   15.0        2.2   46.4       9.2    21.0  16.8       2.2   49.2
* Additionally, 5.3 million laoner were made available through a Swedish Trust Fund to finance activities
under the Study Fund sub-component..
Table 6. Economic Costs and Benerits
No economic rate of return was calculated at appraisal, as it was not appropriate for this type
of project. Project Benefits were expressed in termns of improvements in the physical
conditions of local communities. Appraisal criteria designed for the subprojects was intended
to ensure a suffficiently high degree of cost effectiveness and that benefits would accrue to
the poor or vulnerable. In addition, the govenment's ability to collect information and
conduct analyses that would inform the its efforts to design social policies was also expected
to improve.



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                                                                                                                 20
Table 7A. Key Implementation Indicators
Numnber of healtli facilities improved, rehabilitated,         55 percent of projects             19 percent of projects:
constructed                                                                                       * 10 training centers
*58 health centers
IO 1 wards
*2 relative shelters
*76 staff houses
Number of education facilities improved, rehabilitated         25 percent of projects             70 percent of projects:
and constructed                                                                                   *   1365 classroorns
*   72 offices
*   434 staff houses
*   17 wall fences
362 wells/boreholes drilled or rehabilitated, the vast rnajority of which
were based in schools and health centers. 1657 VIP latrines and 133
ablution blocks were built or renovated.
Number of people trained in subprojects that provide           no esrimnte provided               No raining microproject under SRP I
training
Ex post economic or social impact of randomly selected         no estimate provided               Six such evaluations completed ducing the life of Project:
subprojects (based on stuches includig beneficiary                                                    1 Beneficiary Assessment 1 April 1993
assessment)                                                                                       *   Beneficiary Assessment II, November 1993
*   Beneficiary Assessment m, AprI 1994
*   Beneficiary Assessment TV, 1996
*   Beneficiary Assessment V, July 1998
*   Technical Evaluation 1994 & 1996
36  Constraints to Maintenance of Soc. Infrastructhv e 1997
r Managednent Evaluations of 1994 and 1998
l Effectiveness and Sustainability of the First Social Recovery
Project, Feb  seary 1997
*   Measunrng Attasement of Development Objectives SRP I & II,
.   August 1998
Recommendations from these assessments were considered and
impacted in improving implementation processes significantly.
Share of Administrative Costs Relative to Sub-Project          5.7 percent                       9 percent
Costs



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                                                                                       21
Table 7B. Key Implementation Indicators - Number of Projects
Education                  19          22           51          23          44          27             38            43          30
Health                      8           9            5          12           4            6              7           16            5
Water Supply                4           4            8           4           4            2            N/A            7            3
Economic Infrastructure     3           2            3           1           1            1            N/A             1        N/A
Other                       1          N/A         N/A         N/A           4            1            N/A           N/A        N/A
Table 7C. Key Implementation Indicators - Average Number of Beneficiaries
(No estimate provided in SAR)
Education                 960         1238         416         582         1302         513            494           324        398
Health                   6043        22417       17000        7373        4233        17583          11357          6846       7274
Water Supply             2172         4589        3887        2325         1591         1700            **          8201       4800*
Economic Infrastructure    177*       1500        7167      28000*        7000*        7000*            **          6622*        **
Other                      20           **          **          **         N/A          N/A             **            **         **
* In these cases not an average as only one project in this category.
** Indicates no project in this sector.
N/A indicates data not available, despite there being a project.
Note: gender disaggregated data was not available.



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                               22
Table 7D. Key Implementation Indicators -
Geographical Distribution of Sub-projects
Using the number of projects hides the intensity of the resources allocated by SRP to the various
districts. A better measure of effort and effect is the amount of money committed per district.
Using amount committed instead of number of projects and extending the analysis over all
districts in the country, the results are as follows. The table uses a poverty incidence ranking of
districts and divides them into quintiles of 20 percent segments of the population. Share of SRP I
resources and per capita expenditures are then analyzed.
Quintile 1 - poorest 20%           22%                  $2.23
Quintile 2                         22%                  $2.37
Quintile 3                         21%                  $2.40
Quintile 4                         16%                  $1.70
Quintile 5 - least poor 20%        20%                  $2.15
National average                                        $2.17
Table 8. Key Indicators for Project Operation
Sustainability   *  As part of ICR preparation for SRI? n, review randomly
in SRI? I           selected SR? I projects to monitor and assess sustaiability of
microprojects        SRPI 1  microprojects also; and
* Ensure that maintenance issues are addressed in SRI? I
microprojects as part of activities under SRP II and report on all
steps taken
Sustainability   *  Abstracts of all studies financed under SRP I prepared and
of the Study        finalized by March 31, 1999
micropro s       *   If possible posted on a University Web Page
* In consultation with the Bank, prepare and implement plan
under SRP II for institutionalizing of the Study Fund



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                                                                                23
Table 9. Studies Conducted Under the Project
~~~~~~~~~~.... ...                                                                             ... .,,  .... .
n.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..
Beneficiary Assessments I & II (Piiority Study)            March 1992      Findings: There is trade-off between conununity participation and
Objective: The objective of these studies was to evaluate the              the quality of construction in the MPU projects. There is little
impact of MPU on communities in which they operated.                       input by women in the communities at project selection and
implementation.
Impact: The studies have been instrumental in influencing the
required changes in both the policy and operations of MPU.
Poverty Analysis (Priority Study)                           Aug 1993       Findings: More than half of Zambian households lived in
Objective: The study identified the incidence, intensity and degree        households whose per capita consumption was less than two-
of poverty in the various socioeconomic groups in Zambia. It also          thirds of the overall average; the incidence of poverty is more than
constructed a poverty map and identified potential policy                  double that of urban areas; and the average distance to basic
measures that can reduce poverty in one or more socioeconomic              facilities in rural areas is about 10 times more than that the urban
groups.                                                                    areas.
Impact: Study has proved to be an important and strong reference
material for poverty related studies.
Price Mechanism (Priority Study)                          Not conducted     Study was planned of 1992. It was later felt that it was not urgent
particularly given the difficulty of analyzing variances in an
environment of high inflation.
Household Food Security Under Structural Adjustment         Aug 1994       Findings: Child malnutrition had not deteriorated in the period
(Priority Study)                                                           1985 1991; Levels of stunting were found to be particularly high
Objective: Through use of PS 1, the study examined indicators of           in rural areas of Luapula, Northern, Central and Eastern provinces
nutrition and household food security.                                     and also the urban areas of Luapula and Northern provinces.
Impact: Based on the findings, the mentioned provinces were
prioritized for nutrition programs under the National Nutrition
strategy.
Vulnerability of Women Under Structural Adjustment        Not conducted    Better focused, and sector/program specific studies were regarded
(Priority Study)                                                           to be more relevant. Several studies have therefore addressed the
topic from various perspectives.



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                                                                                        24
Safety Net Studies (Priority Study)                             Jan 1994        Impact: The studies provided a useful overview of the extent,
(i) Literature Review of Existing Studies and Surveys that aim at               gaps and capacities required for a sustainable social safety net in
Identifying the Vulnerable; (ii) Review of Selected NGOs,                       the country. The findings of the study on the assessment of the
Government and Donor Activities in the Social Safety Net Sector,                capacity of the MCDSS also served as the core document for the
and (iii) An Assessment of the Institutional Capacity and Needs of              restructuring of the entire Ministry
the Ministry of MCDSS.
Objective: The main aim of the studies were to: Identify who and
where the poor and vulnerable are; what was being done for them;
identify the gaps in service delivery; and assess the capacity of the
MCDSS to maintain and co-ordinate a social safety net.
The Effects of Monetary Policies under SAP on the Economic      Jan 1993        Findings: The tight monetary policies pursed by the Bank of
Performance of the Urban and Rural Informal Sector                              Zambia under the two SAPs, 1985 and 1991, had no direct
Objective: Determine the degree to which monetary policies                      negative effects on the economic performance of both rural and
under SAP have had an effect on the performance of the informal                 urban informal sector. The detachment of the sector from the
sector.                                                                         formal sector monetary institutions was in fact its greatest
strength.
Impact: The study generated considerable policy debate among
stakeholders at various fora.
Increase in Malnutrition in Zambia                              May 1993        Findings: Govermnent expenditure on health with specific
Objective: The study attempted to assess the relationship between               reference to nutrition related diseases is not a major factor in the
SAP and the status of health, especially the nutritious status of               increase of malnutrition cases over the SAP Period. There is a
children.                                                                       relatively strong link between the price of maize and nutrition
status and that there are also factors other than price and subsidies
which have a bearing on nutrition status; The dearth of a coherent
food and nutrition policy has resulted in the lack of understanding
of the problem and the weak articulation of the issues; The lack of
update on various nutrition indicators makes the job of measuring
SAP impact difficult.
Impact: NFNC has on several occasions referred to the report for
their program planning.



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                                                                                     25
Juvenile Delinquency in Zambia                                Jun 1993        Findings: Poverty, urbanization, child neglect, large families,
Objective: The study attempted to outline the causes, effects and             broken homes, drug abuse, and lack of recreation facilities are the
solutions ofjuvenile delinquency in Zambia.                                   underlying factors. Some of the effects are: loss of property and
life, forsaken children and potential loss of foreign investors due
to the likelihood of the delinquents joining the already swelling
number of criminals.
Impact: Findings of the study were widely appreciated by
stakeholders. A considerable amount of debate also arose from the
findings.
Farming Systems in Chief Mukwikili's Area                      Jun 1993       Findings: The study indicated that the major constraints ere the
Objective: The study examined the agricultural systems in chief               inadequate supply of purchased inputs and credit and the lack of
Mukwikili's area to determine the major and minor constraints to              marketing opportunities.
increased agricultural production.                                            Impact: Distributed to Ministry of Agriculture, extension
workers, and community leaders in that area. Awareness built, but
no other follow-up.
Community Attitudes Toward Child Development in Chaisa         Jul 1993       Findings: The study found that the overall outlook of Chaisa is
Compound                                                                      very poor and below normal standards of a human settlement.
Objective: The study identified how residents of Chaisa believe               Housing, water and sanitation, public health services are all below
their living conditions are affecting child development. It also              standard. Women also invest a lot of time and resources to acquire
attempted to produce effective solutions to the identified problems           income to support their children.
through active participation of the community in the research                 Impact: Results of the study have had tremendous input in the
process.                                                                      design of child related programs/projects in Chaisa by the
community.
Prospects of Private Entrepreneur Investment in Primary       Aug 1993        Findings: There are different types of private primary schools
Education in Zambia                                                           which currently exist in the country. The fees charged in private
Objective: The study was intended at generating data on the                   primary schools depend on the type of clients served and the type
nature and operation of private primary schools which would                   of school. Parents and teachers have positive attitudes toward
assist in better understanding of private investment in the primary           these schools. The type of problems depend on the type of school.
education sector. The study also was intended at identifying                  Impact: Distributed to Ministry of Education and dissemination
current policy constraints affecting effective private sector                 workshop held.
investment.                                             ..



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                                                                                   26
'7  ~~~~~~~~~       .   .    ~~~~~~~E-Ml                                   ON..
To What Extent does the content and Structure of Formal       Dec 1993       Findings The study found a gross under-representation of women
Education help Women Gain Access to Productive Resources                     in school textbooks and that the content and structure of formal
in Zambia's Formal Sector?                                                   education as currently practiced in Zambia does not help women
Objective: The study examined the assumption that the content of             gain access to productive resources in the formal sector.
the existing formal education discrininates against women and                Impact: Study formed part of the reference materials in the PAGE
that it does not help them as much as men in the formal sector to            program by the Ministry of Education
gain access to productive resources.
Community Response to Cholera                                 Jan 1994       Findings: Due to lack of knowledge of the mode of transmission
Objective: The main objective of the study was to establish how              of cholera, lack of community mobilization and participation,
communities respond to cholera outbreaks.                                    resource constraints and inadequate health manpower, community
response to cholera outbreaks has been poor.
Impact: The report proved to be an important reference material
for the cholera program of 1994/95.
Effects of the Social Action Programme on Provincial          Jan 1994       Findings: Overall, the study found that SAP had little effect on
Development                                                                  the provincial development and may actually have intensified the
Objective: The study was intended at ascertaining the impact of              development disparities that already exist. The program did not
SAP on redressing the regional imbalances which exist as a result            also have considerable impact on vulnerable groups.
of unbalanced development. It also was intended at establishing              Impact: Distribution of report to various local government and
the impact of SAP in redressing the plight of vulnerable groups.             provincial stakeholders.
Sorghum Dehulling in Zambia                                  May 1994        Findings: The study justified the need for a wide dissemination of
Objective: The study was intended at justifying the need for a               dehullers as a feasible and profitable program which needs
wide dissemination of dehullers in Zambia.                                   funding in order to provide an alternative source of nutrition to
more vulnerable households and to people in drought prone areas
where sorghum is more adaptable than maize.
Impact: High demand for the study, but not visible impact.
An Assessment of Current Government Health Care Delivery      Jul 1994       Findings: There was an acute shortage of Doctors in Lusaka
Services in Lusaka Urban                                                     Urban. Health services provided at the health centers as reported
Objective: The study assessed the current government Health                  by practitioners were curative. Dissatisfied clients cited poor
Care services in Lusaka urban.                                               coordination, political interference and management that was
unresponsive to problems of health care providers.
Impact: The study made a useful and informed contribution to the
then proposed Lusaka Health Master Plan.



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                                                                                   27
I. .. . ..   ..... .NO 
Community Participation in the Control of Diarrhea Diseases  Aug 1994        Findings: The study found that he community of George
in George Compound                                                           Compound have a knowledge of the causes, treatment and
Objective: The main objective of the study was to find out if there          prevention of diarrheal diseases. However, this knowledge is not
was community participation in the prevention and control of                 fully put into practice at individual, family and community levels.
diarrheal diseases in George Compound of Lusaka.                             Impact: study made a useful and informed contribution to the
Lusaka Health Master Plan.
An Assessment of Implications of SAP on Household Food        Sep 1994       Findings: The poor and vulnerable have severely been affected by
Security and Nutrition with Special Reference to Women                       SAP. The extended family system is under massive pressure,
Objective: The study assessed the impact SAP and drought on                  development projects have reinforced gender imbalances.
vulnerable groups, with special regard to household food security            Impaat: The findings and recommendations led to follow-up
and nutrition with women as a special reference point.                       studies: (i) NFNC Nutrition Study and (ii) several studies
conducted by UNICEF.
Private Sector Participation in Education in Zambia           Sep 1994       Findings: There is lack of a social sector bank where would be
Objective: Major objective was to ascertain the sources of the               investors in education can borrow from. Commercial Banks are
initial investment funds and resources with which entrepreneurs              not willing to lend and if they do, the interest rates and
establish the schools and to find out the private and social rate of         repayments terms are prohibitive and restrictive. As a result,
return.                                                                      private schools face major hurdles in the quest to establish
themselves, to run and operate efficiently, to provide good quality
education and to do this at a reasonable return to their investment.
Impact: Reports distributed and dissemination workshop held.
Low Cost Shelter on the Copperbelt                            Sep 1994       Findings: The study revealed declining levels of private and
Objective: The primary goal of the study was to provide decision             public investment in shelter, formal employment and real incomes
makers, shelter funding agencies, shelter administrators and                 in past decades, consequently shelter conditions for the poorest
beneficiary communities guidelines for implementing                          and vulnerable.
economically, socially, and environmentally acceptable solutions             Impact: Report distributed and is still in high demand. However,
for promoting affordable low-cost shelter.                                   progress in this area very low nation-wide.
Food For Work Programs in Zambia. VoL 1. (Priority Study)    May 1995        Impact: The findings of the study were used in policy formulation
Objective: The study was intended at examining the effects of                for the 1995/96 drought relief program.
food for work on self reliance, market prices of staples, household
food security and nutrition



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                                                                                  28
'Y '7011 j M-1/10.11,11"E"' ..                                          7'
Sex Education Programs For Young Adults                      Jur 1995       Findings: It was found that services provided mistake the age at
Objective: The study examined the impact of available social and            which young people become sexually active and face these
sex education on young adults                                               problems. The services are often too late to maximize benefits to
the target group.
Impact: It is reference material for PAGE program. Report
distributed widely and dissemination workshop held.
Bibliography of Qualitative Studies done in Zambia           Jun 1995       Findings: Qualitative studies have a role to play in institutional
Objective: Basic objective was to compile and conduct literature            appraisal, planning, monitoring and evaluation of projects and
review and prepare an annotated bibliography of qualitative                 programs. There is also an increasing number of local experts in
research done in Zambia by various research institutions. The               the approach.
exercise was meant to provide a quick reference and summary of              Impact: One of the reports that have shown and urged the
issues raised.                                                              planners and policy makers to consider qualitative sources of
information in their decision making.
Nutrition and Household Food Security Situation in Zambia:   Nov 1995       Findings: Nutrition and household food security levels had
Analysis of PS 1 (Priority Study)                                           deteriorated between the two periods; the rate of decline was
Objective: The study examined indicators of nutrition and                   highest among middle income groups in both urban and rural
household food security between 1991 and 1993.                              areas; and despite the trend the levels of malnutrition and
household food security in the rural areas were much higher than
those in the urban areas.
Impact: Findings initiated considerable debate among key
stakeholders with regard to causes and implications for policy and
programs.
An Evaluation and Recommendations for the Future of the      Apr 1996       Findings: The study provided the detailed analysis and constraints
Public Welfare Assistance Scheme of the MCDSS (Priority                     of PWAS and also recommended the development of the
Study)                                                                      eligibility criteria for selection of PWAS clients.
Objectives: The aim of the study was to provide a detailed                  Impact: The above was done and a redesigned PWAS is now
analysis of activities and constraints of PWAS and also to make             being implemented on a pilot basis.
recommendations toward the restructuring of the scheme.



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                                                                                   29
% . .M           -.  . .  .   ..
User Fees in the Health Sector (Priority Study)              May 1996        Impact: The study were extensively used by the Central Board of
Objective: Main aim was to examine the policy, practice, effect              Health in coming up with the Health Financing Policy.
and perceptions with regard to the introduced user fees in the
health sector.
Analysis of Factors Affecting Women's Utilization of Family   Aug 1995       Findings: Education, regional and ethnic background,
Planning Services in Zambia                                                  accessibility, logistics and supplies, religion and attitudes were
Objective: The main objective was to analyze factors that                    identified as factors that affect women's utilization of family
influence the utilization patterns of family planning services by            planning services.
women in Zambia.                                                             Impact: Report distributed. Some feedback received from
relevant stakeholders.
Small Holder Farming and Agriculture Credit under SAP in      Nov 1996       Findings: Agricultural credit system for small holder farmers has
Zambia                                                                       achieved little due to various factors.
Objective: The study assessed the performance and sustainability             Impact: Report distributed to funding agencies (agricultural
of the main lending institutions and evaluated the impact of SAP             credit), Ministry of Agriculture, and others. Follow-ups
on supply and demand of agricultural credit for smallholder                  made/discussions held with agriculture and finance institutions.
farmers.
The Impact of the HlIV/AIDS Biliboards on Knowledge of and    Jan 1997       Findings: The survey found high knowledge on general
Attitudes about HPV/AIDS among Urban Students in Zambia                      information about HIV/AIDS, low on technical information and
Objective: The study was intended at establishing the students'              misconceptions on selected aspects of the disease. However, the
knowledge and attitudes about HIV/AIDS and their perceptions of              impact of billboards on knowledge and attitudes was found to be
the role of billboards in improving knowledge and attitudes about            insignificant.
various facets of the disease.                                               Impact: Report distributed and findings were very much
appreciated by major stakeholders.
Economics of Maize Production and Marketing under a           Feb 1997       Findings: The area cultivated under maize has declined by one
Liberalized Market: A Case Study of Monze District                           third in Monze since 1991 due to the effects of SAP and natural
Objective: The study attempted to establish the way in which the             forces. This has increased the number of food insecure households
maize sector in Monze has been affected by market liberalization.            and marketable surplus.
Impact: Report distributed and video produced. A debate on the
issue was initiated among stakeholders.



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                                                                                       30
-..    A4b        - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Stndy  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... 
- -  a~~~~~~~~~~~a~~~~e .~~~~~~~es~~~~~~pieisoui-.  ~~~~~~~~~~...... ....
The Hammer Mill Industry in Zambia                             Feb 1997        Findings: Hammer mills are not evenly located and about a third
Objective: The study was intended at providing infonnation on                  of these do not operate due to lack of spare parts. Hamnuer mills
the economic viability of the Hammer mill industry and estimate                constitute the most numerous small scale rural industry and
its numbers, geographical distribution and technical issues which              provides employment to more than 10,000 people.
affect it.                                                                     Impact: Report distributed to Ministry of Agriculture, Zambia
Cooperative Federations, manufacturers and service providers for
hammer mills, and donor institutions involved in the sector.
Assessment of the 1995/6 Programme Against Malnutrition        May 1997        Findings: The relief program was successful. The required 88,000
Drought Relief Programme (Priority Study)                                      MT of drought relief was timely acquired from outside the
Objective: The study evaluated the performance and effectiveness               country and about 2.5. million people received food aid. The
of the Programmne against Malnutrition on the distribution of the              study also points at several problem areas. These include;
1995/96 drought relief aid to Zambia.                                          inadequate targeting of beneficiaries in the Food for Work
Programme which led to more recipients of relief food than the
number originally targeted for, inadequate coping mechanisms
among groups of recipients and the necessity to shift emphasis
from drought mitigation activities to those which reduce the
vulnerability to drought.
Impact: Findings incorporated in PAM's program design for
1998.
Impact of Free Market Reforms on Smallholder Rice              Jun 1997        Findings: Due to market reforms, cultivated areas, average
Production in Western Province: Toward a Framework for                         production and income per household have declined over the
the implementation of Sustainable Community Based                              years as a result of lack of institutional support services in the area
Smallholder Rice Development Programs                                          of input supply and produce marketing.
Objective: The purpose of the study was to examine the effects of              Impact: Workshop took place in Westemn Province and an Action
free market reforms and smallholder rice production and                        plan was made by the stakeholders. The study also precipitated
marketing in Westemn Province.                                                 another workshop for rice growers.
The Zambian Labor Markets under Economic Adjustment            Nov 1997        Findings: Poor human capital formation of Zambia's labor force
Objectives: The study examined whether the labor markets                       has made it difficult for the country to obtain the desired results of
explains the disappointing economic performance of the 1990s.                  economic adjustment.
Impact: Report distributed to ILO, Ministry of Labor, trade
unions, and other institutions. Dissemination workshop held.
Awareness created.



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                                                                                   31
o. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~     V     ,, 7
The Contribution of Female Headed Households to               Jul 1998       Findings: 23% of all agricultural (crop-producing) households
Agricultural Production in Zambia                                            were female headed. These households have on the average
Objective: To detennine the nature and extent of the contribution            smaller family sizes and therefore a shortage of labor, they also
of female-headed households (FHH) to agricultural production.                have proportionally less access to extension facilities (14.5% in
1995/96), credit facilities and to farm inputs. Their average yield
for any crop (except sorghum) is generally lower and have
consequently a higher incidence of poverty than male headed
households (MHH). In both the FHH and MHH, women provide
the bulk of the unpaid family labor. The productivity of FIHH
could therefore be improved with focused and conducive and
gender sensitive policies, credit arrangements, input availability,
diversification programs and extension services.
Impact: The findings should be of interest to government, NGOs,
donor organizations and other sector holders in the agricultural
sector. The report has been distributed to the major stakeholders
and a debate on a number of the raised issues is expected.



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                                                                                       32
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
1_                                                                         =~~~~E
Section       Borrower shall carry out the project through MPU   Management Aspects;  Complied with    N/A   N/A
3.01 (b)     in accordance with the implcmentation program    Implcmentation
set forth in schedule 4 to the Agreement.
Section       Borrower shall submit evidence satisfactory to the  Sectoral Budgetary  Not complied  N/A      N/A     Discussed in ICR
3.03          Association that it has increased in real terms the                    with                            Text
budgetary allocation for non remuneration
recurrent costs for Health & Education.
Section       Borrower shall submit annually progress reports    Management Aspects;  Complied with    N/A  N/A
3.04 (a) & (b)  on (a) the implementation of the project and (b)    Monitoring and
activities covering surveys and statistical analysis,  Reporting;
number and results of studies funded and the  Implementation
following year's work program.
Section       Borrower shall enter into subprojects agreements   Management Aspects;  Complied with    N/A  N/A
3.05 (i) & (ii)  with project comniittees.                 Implementation
Section       Borrower undertake that subprojects will be  Management Aspects;   Complied with    N/A       N/A
3.06          identified appraised and caried out in accordance  Implementation
with set procedures out in the appraisal guide and
in schedule 4.
Section       Borrower shall until completion of project  Management Aspects;  Complied with    N/A         N/A
3.07          maintain the MPU for the purposes of financing    Implementation
subprojects and carrying out the project.
Section       Borrower and Association agree to undertake not  Monitoring &      Complied with    N/A       N/A
3.08          later than April 30, 1993 a review of the progress   Reporting
of the project.
Section       Borrower shall maintain adequate records and  Accounts/Audit;     Complied with    N/A        N/A
4.01          account and furmish to the association certified  Monitoring &
copy of audit.                             Reporting



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                                 33
Table 11. Compliance with Operation Manual Statements
There was compliance with all pertinent Bank Operational Manual statements throughout
the project cycle.
Table 12. Bank Resources - Staff Input
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g                      fflwgg / 
Stages of Project Cycle    Weeks    US$'000    Weeks    US$'000    Weeks    US$'ooo
Preparation to Appraisal    NA       NA        NA         NA         10.5      27.8
Appraisal                 NA         NA        NA         NA         NA        NA
Negotiations through      NA         NA        NA         NA         2.5       6.62
Board Approval
Supervision               92.1     243.97      107.2    283.97     163.78    433.86
Completion*               25.5       66                              15.5      46.3
Total Project Costs
Memo: (NA) - Not available
* Includes resources paid from trust funds
Assumes average cost of US$2649 per staff week (for planned estimates).



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                                                                                        34
Table 13. Bank Resources - Missions
/                                                          D
~ta~ _                                             _           Sttu.Oj.           _
Through
Appraisal
.~.
Appraisal
through
Board
Approval
Supervision   11/91      4         10    Statistician;              HS       HS      Progress under the Community Initiatives Component is slower
Anthropologist;                           than expected due to increased demands on MPU staff by the EC
Nutritionist; Economist                    review of program and the national election process.
Supervision    2/92      3         17    Statistician; Nutritionist;  S       S      Progress under the Community Initiatives Component is slower
Economist                                 than expected due to increased demands on MPU staff in the
process of "cleaning up" the EC's Lome III Microprojects
portfolio and EC insistence on veto-power over all decisions
made in the Unit. Project ratings downgraded to reflect concem
over slow govermment decision on implementation structures and
lack of concrete action to reform the same. Some concern that
selection criteria for Study Fund may be too tight.
Supervision    6/92      2         22    Statistician;              S         S      (Form 590 submitted, but not available in files). Overriding issue
Anthropologist                            related to capacity of the Unit to implement and monitor the
various components of the SRP in relation to both the terms
envisioned in the DCA and in light of subsequent moves tovuse
the Unit as a conduit for the implementation of other projects.
Concern about delay in release of funds for Monitoring &
Analysis Component. Studies sub-component faced lack of
funding caused by non-reimbursement of the Swedish co-
financing from former SDA program at headquarters.



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                                                                                          35
.~. 
gg
Supervision    10/92      3         2    Economist (2); Human                         (No form 590 submitted, even although the BTO mentions an
Resource Specialist                        updated 590 form was attached as Annex I). High concentration
of projects in education was somewhat a concern. Government
counterpart funds still a problem.
Supervision    12/92      3        5*    Economist (2);                               No form 590 submitted.
Anthropologist
Supervision    3/93       1         10    Statistician                                (No form 590 submitted). Survey program of the Monitoring and
Analysis Component while moving ahead, was rnot as timely as
planned or expected for two reasons: (i) number of donors
approaching CSO, asking for and paying for, urgent tasks such as
drought monitoring impact and (ii) problematic organizational
set up in CSO, which provides no incentives to do analytical
Supervision    5/93       2         3    Economist;                                   (No form 590 submitted). Slow replenishment of the Special
Anthropologist                             Account has hampered progress under the study component.
Concerns also raised about the staffing shortages within the
Priority Survey team of the Central Statistics Office.
Supervision    7/93       1         8     Statistician                                (No form 590 submitted). Performance of surveys sub-
component viewed as below standard both in terms of quality
and timeliness. The latter in part is due to the heavy workload of
the survey team, which had to undertake many activities.
Supervision    11/93      1        4*    Economist                                    (No form 590 submitted). Concern over implementation delays
with some subprojects. Government commitment a problem.
Problems also noted with regards to collaboration with the EC.
Supervision    7/94       6         10    Education Specialist; 2    HS       HS      Areas identified for further improvement by review: (1) increase
(mid-term                                 Social Sector Analysts;                     active involvement by communities; (2) diversify project
review)                                   Social Policy Analyst;                      portfolio; (3) improve technical quality of projects; and (4)
Senior Economist;                          improve dissemination about the program at the provincial and
Principal Poverty                          district levels.
Advisor/HR Economist
Supervision    10/94      1        2*    Education Specialist                         (No form 590 submitted). Concern over the slow delivery of
counterpart funds to the project.



Zambia Social Recovery Project ICR                                                                                                                   36
Supervision    5195        2                 Education Specialist;       HS        HS       An inadequate transport fleet and cash budget make the planning
Operations Officer                            and management of statistical operations extreinely difficult.
Supervision    4/96         1         9      Education Specialist;       HS        HS      Need for (i) imnproving quality of project appraisal and
Operations Officer                            monitoring; (ii) assisting communities in establishing adequate
;                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~facility management and maintenance systems; (iii) imnproving
quality of supervision; and (iv) improve coordination and
exchange of information between different actors in the field of
school rehabilitation/construction.
Supervision    6/97        5          14    LCMU Specialist; Social      HS        HS      The quality of information collected during appraisal of
Policy Specialist; Sr.                        subprojects is not satisfactory. This is basically due to weak
Education Specialist;                         technical capacity of district teams. Sense of community's
Statistician; Operations                      responsibility for and ownership of facilities rehabilitated or
Officer                                       constructed needs to be strengthened to ensure sustainability of
subprojects. There is a need to reassess the capacity of ROs to
fulfll all their obligations in view of their increasing workload
and number of projects under their supervision. Discussions to
increase the numnber of ROs have been initiated with EU. The
project is closing on July 31, 1997. However, because of some
delays in processing contractual documents with few subprojects,
it is likely that all project funds may not be fully disbursed by
Closing Date.
Supervision    3/98        4          13    Senior Economist;            HS         S      The project does not adequately reach comimunities wlhich, while
Operations Officer;                           not incapacitated, are highly marginalized by their geographical
Statistician; Architect                       location (remote or difficult access) or by their economiic
position (the relatively poor or "ultra pooi').
ICR            9/98        7          14    Sr. Operations Officer; Sr.    HS       S
Mission                                      Economist/Poverty
Specialist; Architect;
Informatics Specialist;
Operations Analyst;
Procurement Specialist;
Social Sector Specialist
*It was impossible to determine actual numnber of days spent orn project as task leader in charge of supervision was also supervising other tasks; tus an average was used.



PART IV - APPENDICES



Appendix A                                                                    38
Aide-memoire between Government of Zambig and the World Bank Completion
Mission for SRP I
I. Summary Evaluation
1.    SRP I was expected to close on July 31, 1997, but was extended to permit GRZ to avail
of remaining balance in the credit resulting from an exchange gain between the dollar and the
Special Drawing Rights. The Project closed on July 31, 1998. SRP I is fully disbursed. The SRP
Unit will continue to submit withdrawal applications until the recovery of the advance to the
Special Account is completed (there is a balance of US $ 4,233), and this process is expected to
be complete by October 30, 1998. The audit statements for FY 97 have been received, the final
audits are due. Thus all project completion and closing processes have been satisfactorily
undertaken by the SRP Unit.
2.    As of June 30, 1998, SRP I has disbursed a total of US $ 20.04 million. It financed 373
community initiatives, totaling about US $ 17.23 million. Seventy percent of the projects were in
the education sector, 17 percent in the health sector and 11 percent in the water and sanitation
and other sectors. Both implementation progress and achievement of development objectives are
considered to be more than satisfactory. The reasons for the ratings will be detailed in the ICR
but the Mission's findings are briefly discussed below.
H.    Achievement of Development Objectives
3.    Overall Project Achievements. The mission confirmed that the SRP I achieved all of
its major objectives. In particular, the Community Initiatives Component delivered significant
benefits to the poor during the difficult adjustment process underway in Zambia, As importantly,
these community initiatives did strengthen communities and other local organizations and serve
as pilot test approaches to demand-driven, community-based interventions. Disbursements were
made in a timely fashion and the SRP showed its efficiency and effectiveness in financing a large
number of community initiative. Microprojects were of acceptable technical quality, with
significant improvements over time. The mission noted that overall, administrative costs
accounted'for a larger share of program resources than envisioned, largely due to the opening of
regional offices and the need to carry out more intensive district and community capacity
building than initially foreseen. In addition, the sectoral distribution of investments was
substantially different than the appraisal estimate, with a much greater presence of school
microprojects in' the portfolio. The mission discussed the reasons for this and both the SRP and
the Bank agreed on the need to review this issue in the preparation of any subsequent operations.
4.    At all projects visited, there was a great deal of community participation. Not only were
counterpart contributions high, community members related stories of all of the obstacles they
had to overcome to be able to present and manage projects. At all projects visited, the
beneficiary community had formed a maintenance committee. Therefore, this necessary first step
for sustainability appears largely in place. In certain instances, communities have been active in
making minor repairs, although systematic preventative maintenance was not carried out in any
of the sites visited. It was also less clear regarding the arrangements to finance maintenance,
though the mission noted that in SRP II steps have been taken to correct these concerns.



Appendix A                                                                    39
5.    MPU staff at all levels displayed a great deal of professionalism and commitment. The
regional officers were obviously very well informed about their areas and projects and were
greatly appreciated by the communities visited. District staff met along the way also displayed
significant knowledge about the MPU and commitment to 'working in the MPU way'.
Communities reiterated the importance of the technical guidance and support they received from
district staff, in particular the district planning officers.
6.    Technical evaluations of a sample of executed projects were carried out in 1994 and
1996. The initial report in general found that, although overall the standard of construction was
adequate, an unacceptably high level of sub-standard building was witnessed in the rural areas.
The second evaluation, carried out as an input to this completion report, did a comprehensive
assessment of quality of construction, standard of supervision, community capacity to implement
their projects, and effectiveness of MPU procedures. Projects in both urban and rural locations
showed substantial improvement in the quality of construction and community capacity to
manage microprojects. The 1994 study showed that only about 60% of microprojects had a
standard of construction that was adequate, good or very good. This ros'e to 89% in the 1996
study. In the intervening period, the MPU had responded consistently to address these quality
concerns with capacity building across the board and changes in criteria and procedures. MPPU
insistence on a Technical Supervisor at every project site had the single greatest impact on this
improvement. Some of the weaker points found in the evaluations were an observed lack of
preventative maintenance on buildings, little evidence of health education automatically taking
place at water projects or around water/sanitation components of projects, poor understanding of
the design and operations of latrines, and in selected cases the rehabilitation of buildings with
inherent-structural defects.
7.    Poverty Targeting. A three-pronged strategy was adopted to target SRP resources.
First, only simple, small projects which met the basic needs of the poor were eligible, such as
primary education, primary health care, latrines and standpipe water supply. Second, rigorous
screening criteria were used during microproject appraisal, including a mandatory field appraisal
and social assessment of beneficiaries, to ensure that only poor communities and beneficiaries
were served. And third, the MPU carried out an institutional strategy designed to increase access
to SRP by more difficult to reach and poorer areas, including the opening of nine regional offices
and sustained efforts to train and increase the capacity of district officials. As a result, there is
significant evidence that self-targeting was effective in orienting SRP resources to poor,
communities. Data is not yet available to confirm the distribution of SRP benefits at the
household level.
8.    Impacts (see Annex 1). In general, the mission noted that impacts on beneficiaries
appear to have been positive and significant. Highlights of the principal impacts of SRP I, as
determined through a series of studies, some of which were carried out as preparation for the
ICR, were as follows:
* Within education projects, approximately 170,000 school children benefited from
IDA-financed school projects. The predominant effects cited by beneficiaries were
the improved learning environment, better hygiene facilities, better student
performance, an increased influx of teachers and better teacher morale. MPU-
assisted schools tended to be better equipped and offer a greater number of grades.
Evidence is mixed on enrollment effects, with most data poin'ting to a slight decrease,
though less than observed in the current trend at the national level.



Appendix A                                                                     40
*  Within health projects, over 660,000 community members benefited from IDA-
financed interventions. Beneficiaries felt the primary impact was on increased
admissions to facilities and improved medical services, reduced congestion at
centers, reduced child mortality, and increased productivity of staff. In both health
and education, community residents noted the reduction in distances they have to
walk to access facilities. More SRP-assisted health centers had availability of
physical, transport and communications facilities than those that did not receive SRP
assistance and medical examination services were higher in quality. Provision of
family planning services expanded as well.
*  In addition to the direct benefits of the microproject benefits, there were significant
spill-over effects. Most notably, SRIP I contributed to increased district and
community level capacity to address their problems. The SRP helped demonstrate
the effectiveness and efficiency of a demand-driven community development model.
9.    Cost-Effectiveness. The mission reviewed the evidence of the cost-effectiveness of the
program and found it to be satisfactory. Although institutional costs were higher than anticipated
at appraisal, they were still within acceptable limits and were adversely affected by factors
outside of MPU control. At the microproject level,' strict unit cost control and an effort to adopt
technologies and building practices within reach of beneficiary-communities led to significant
cost savings. However, while sufficient attention was placed on cost control, cost per beneficiary
indicators were not used to help enrich the appraisal process. Cost-benefit analysis was not
applicable to most project types. These issues are discussed' in greater details in the Mid-term
review aide-memoire and its Annexes.
10.   Sustainability. The prospects for sustainability of benefits are likely. Sustainability of
the SRP program and approach is apparent. Success in the initial years'led to the approval of
SRP II. In addition, components of other sectoral projects in education, roads and environment
have been passed to the MPU for implementation. District staff have demonstrated that their
experience is being transferred to other district development activities. Community participation
and local capacity building has greatly increased commrunit' sense of ownership of social
infrastructure. Improved quality of facilities and provision of housing for rural professionals has
attracted increased numbers of teachers and nurses to schools and health centers. However,
maintenance of these facilities remains problematic. Local communities have formed
maintenance committees and SRP has made concerted efforts to train these committees.
However, in the initial years not enough attention was paid to capacity building and maintenance
issues though these were rectified with experience.
m.   Analysis and Monitoring Component
11.   The Analysis and Monitoring Component consisted of two sub-components: a survey
sub-component assisting the Central Statistical Office (CSO), and (b) a studies sub-component
financing analyses and studies related to the SAP and poverty in general.
12.   The Survey Sub-Component conducted two out of the four planned surveys in 1991 and
1993. An evaluation indicates that comprehensive data sets have been produced and made
available on a number of variables, relevant for poverty analyses. Capacity has also been built up
both at the central and provincial levels. Despite the fact that non-priority household surveys
were intended to give answers to urgent information needs, and often launched on an ad-hoc
basis without much emphasis on coordination and standardization, it is evaluated that component



Appendix A                                                                   41
objectives were only marginally satisfactory However, borrower performance was not fully
satisfactory since the four planned surveys were not completed, even though the two surveys
provided infornation on poverty in Zambia and were used both by the Government and donors.
An independent evaluation raised three other concerns: one that analysis of data was not
undertaken in an adequately user-friendly manner for politicians, policy makers and
administrators; and second, that the lack of focus on social aspects of the change of living
conditions were not well-reflected, and third, that the cost-efficiency was less than expected.
Also, due to lack of familiarity with procurement and expenditure rules led to a suspension of
funding for eighteen months.
13.   The Study Fund was established to support research and studies on policy related
poverty issues of Zambia. The specific objectives of the Study Fund are: (i) to identify the
effects of social and economic policies on the poor and vulnerable; (ii) to strengthen the capacity
of Zambian institutions to undertake research and analyze existing data; (iii) to assist in the
formnulation of policies and implication of programs; and (iv) to improve communication between
researchers, policy makers, program- implementors and target communities. On the whole
implementation of this component could be rated as highly satisfactory as it appears to have met
all the development objectives. The 34 studies commissioned examined a cross section of issues
in poverty, economics, health, education, and agriculture to name a few. To ensure enhanced
communication between policy makers and researchers, steps were taken to increase the
involvement of public institutions and government ministries in the conceptualization and
execution of research. The largest accomplishment has been building of capacity among
Zambian researchers.
IV. Borrower Performance
14.   Borrower performance on the whole has been more than satisfactory in the timely
implementation of the SRP activities. The concept of community initiated and implemented sub-
projects was new at the time the SRP intervention was designed and initiated. MPU's ability to
learn and adapt quickly was commendable. The Unit very quickly established processes that
helpedlto implement the project effectively, and has generated and created significant and notable
community partnership, ownership, and commitment to these small development interventions.
MPU was highly effective in identifying, contracting and following-up on recommendations from
a series of well-executed evaluations. As such, the MPU has demonstrated its ability to be
flexible, results-oriented and committed to learning and improving. The Unit created a demand
for the decentralization process by creating capacity at the district levels and then by delegating a
number of tasks to those district authorities to facilitate community development.
15.  'It must, however, be noted that the SRP did not finance as many microprojects in the
health sector, including nutrition microprojects, as anticipated by the SAR. Demand came mostly
from the more organized PTAs in primary schools. It must be emphasized however that the
MPU included water points and ventilated improved pit latrines in every school project, thereby
increasing the impact of the microproject on aspects other than, education. The MPU, felt that
focusing on these aspects would create a further need to increase technical capacity in the SRP as
well as at the district levels. Also, the SAR did not raise gender or environmental issues and the
MPU introduced them only later in the project cycle.
16.   Study Fund Component. Borrower performance was satisfactory in the management of
the Study Fund. Procedures for the Study Fund were improved significantly. The Study Fund



Appendix A                                                                    42
developed guidelines and manuals. About 18 months ago the Study Fund began a process of
sending proposals to the concerned institutions to ensure the study covered an area which they
deemed relevant. With regard to the assigning of reviewers, one is usually from academia and
the other from the relevant institution. There were factors beyond the control of the Study Fund
Unit. While all the relevant ministries are members of the steering committee, not all of them
attended the meetings. Certain ministries did not respond to requests for comments on proposals
in a timely fashion. Also, an effective monitoring system was not established by the Study Fund.
17.   Survey Sub-Component. Borrower performance was marginally unsatisfactory under
this sub-component. Only two out of four surveys were conducted, though admittedly the two
surveys provided information on poverty in Zambia and were used both by the Government and
donors. An independent evaluation raised three other concerns: one that analysis of data was not
undertaken in an adequately user-friendly manner for politicians, policy makers and
administrators; and second, that the lack of focus on social aspects of the change of living
conditions were not well-reflected, and third, that the cost-efficiency was less than expected.
Also, lack of familiarity with procurement and expenditure rules led to a suspension of funding
for eighteen months. Nevertheless, the sub-component focused discussion in the country around
poverty-related issues.
V. Bank Performance
18.   Bank performance was satisfactory on the whole. During appraisal and identification, the
Bank team assisted the Government in designing a simple process for financing community-
initiated projects, while at the same time allowing for flexibility that permitted the MPU to evolve
processes as they learnt. It however did not focus adequately on the capacity building aspects
necessary for the program. Bank performance, though highly satisfactory and responsive during
the initial stages of project implementation, was inadequate during some of the later periods. The
Bank also failed to respond in a timely fashion to issues related to disbursement of Swedish co-
financing, and as a result, the borrower was unable to use a part of the funds.
VI. Compliance with Legal Covenants
19.   While overall compliance with financial and other legal covenants is highly satisfactory,
one dated covenant (Section 3.03) required that the Borrower would submit annually to the
association evidence satisfactory that the Borrower has increased in real terms the budgetary
allocation for the non-remuneration recurrent costs for health and education. It seems that this
covenant has not been fully complied with, but more information is required before this can be
confirmed. The Ministry of Finance has agreed to advise us if this-preliminary assessment is
incorrect. It was also noted that compliance with such a covenant was outside the control of the
SRP Unit.
VII.  Operational Plan for SRP I
20.   In order to ensure greater sustainability of services and maintenance of infrastructure, the
MPU will continue under its SRP lI project to create awareness amongst district officials and
teams and in particular among community associations. To the extent possible, it will ask ROs
and district level teams to also evaluate maintenance and service delivery in SRP I microprojects
and wherever possible introduce the maintenance manual and conduct training. This process will
be continuous and MPU will reflect related activities in their reports.



Appendix A                                                                    43
21.   Before winding down the Study Fund, the advisor will ensure that abstracts for all
studies conducted under the SRP I are finalized and approved by the Study Fund Committee,.
Also, it would assist the University to create a webpage to disseminate information on the studies
conducted under SRP I.
AGREEMENTS FOR COMPLETION OF SOCIAL RECOVERY PROJECT I
22.   The Bank Mission has agreed to submission of the final draft of the ICR to the
Government of Zambia by November 1, 1998, and the Government of Zambia will send its
comments before December 15, 1998. The mission also agreed to respond to SRP on the issues
related to Swedish co-financing (TF 21135) as soon as possible.
1      Submit Government's Final ICR   November 15, 1998     SRP
and evaluation                         .
2      Finalize and'submit all withdrawal   before November 30,   SRP
applications to the Bank        19 --
3      Submit project audit report for the                   GRZ
period January 1998 - November
4      Provide Draft ICR to GRZ for    November 1, 1998      World Bank
comments
S      Provide written comments on     December 15, 1998     GR/SRP
Bank's ICR within 6 weeks of
receipt
Annex 1: Impact of SRP Projects
Annex 7: Stakeholder's Meeting and Agenda



Appendix A                                                                     44
ANNEX 1: IMPACT OF SRP PROJECTS
1.    Within the education sector, the IDA Credit financed a total of 213 new classrooms, 993
rehabilitations and 159 completions of partially constructed classrooms. Seventy-two office
spaces were added or upgraded and 434 teacher's houses were either built or rehabilitated.
Approximately 170,000 school children benefited from IDA-financed school projects. A 1996
study found that MPU efforts up to that date had accounted for the largest number of school
rehabilitations of all sources, reaching 602 schools or about 16 percent of the existing stock. In
the beneficiary assessments, the predominant effects cited by beneficiaries of school
microprojects were the improved learning environment, better hygiene facilities, better student
performance, an increased influx of teachers and students, and better teacher morale. The
MADO report found mixed results. The study reported improvements in quality and an
expansion in education services offered. MPU schools had a higher percentage share of schools
with upper grades than non-MPU schools. SRP school interventions tended to result in increases
in school staff, though the share of untrained teachers as a percentage of the teaching staff tended
to increase slightly, although this remained below the national average. Number of classrooms
increased, ard the number of grade one applicants turned away reduced sharply. Nonetheless,
total enrollment in microproject schools fell slightly. This mirrors a drop in enrollment rates at
the national level starting in 1991.
2'.   In the health sector, 58 health centers received MPU financing. In addition, 10 health
training centers were built or improved, 10 wards were extended on existing facilities and 76 staff
houses were constructed or rehabilitated. Over 660,000 community members benefited from
IDA-financed health sector interventions. The beneficiary assessments revealed that
beneficiaries felt the primary impact was on increased admissions to facilities and improved
medical services, reduced congestion at centers, reduced child mortality, and increased
productivity of staff. In both health and education, community residents noted the reduction in
distances they have to walk to access facilities. The MADO' study found that more SRP-assisted
health centers had availability of physical, transport and comimuinications facilities than those that
did not receive SRP assistance and medical examination services were higher in quality.
Provision of family planning services expanded as well. Health centers tended to have more
health workers after the SRP intervention. As a result, reported client visitation doubled on
average. In addition, SRP-assisted health centers tended to receive more frequent supervision
from sector officials and sent statistics in to health authorities with more frequency.
3.    Within the water and sanitation sector, 362 wells and boreholes were drilled or
rehabilitated, the vast majority of which were based in schools and health centers. An additional
1657 VIP latrines and 133 ablution blocks were built or renovated. After SRP interventions,
communities had greater access to mechanical hand pump equipment and there was a significant
increase in the frequency of water collection. However, regarding changes in incidence of water-
bome diseases, data was insufficient to make definitive conclusions.
4.    Impacts on Institutions and Communities. In addition to the direct benefits deriving
from the provision of infrastructure and services to targeted beneficiaries, the project had
significant and positive spill-over effects. At the local level, community participation was seen as
central to the success and impact of SRP efforts. The implementing community was expected to
participate in the planning, execution, management and maintenance of their project. This would
ensure that projects responded to community needs and that communities would have a greater



Appendix A                                                                    45
sense of project ownership which would in turn improve the quality, use and maintenance of the
facilities provided. As the SAR stated, 'the project will strengthen communities and rekindle the
spirit of self-help'. The learning by doing approach would nurture the ability of communities to
articulate demands and work together to solve,problems.



Appendix A                                                                 46
SOCIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
MID TERM REVIEW
STAKEHOLDERS MEETING
10TH SL0PTEMBER 1998
AGENDA
8.30  Registration
9.00  Opening Remarks                 Chairperson
9.15  Status of the Social Recovery Project.
Community Initiatives Component Coordinator, SRP
Surveys Component              Director of Social Statistics, CSO
Study Fund Component           Research Advisor, Study Fund
9.45 Technical and Maintenance Aspects
W. Ilunga (Head of Technical Services MIPU
Ms B Collinson, Consultant
Mr. N Jere, Chief Architect Buildings Branch,
Works and Supply
Questions and Discussion
10.45 TEA BREAK
11.00 Impact of the Social Recovery Project
Dr. C Musumali, Research Advisor
Dr. J Milimio, PAG
Mr. S Tembo, Consultant
Mr. S Muyakwa, Consultant
Mr. J Mutemwa, Consultant
Mr. F Kakungu, Consultant
Questions and Discussion



Appendix A                                                                47
12.00 Management, Organisation, Institutional Linkages and Management
of Information
Mr. G Chipota, Financial Controller, MPU
Mr. D Chaponda, Consultant
Mr. A Sinyangwe, Consultant
Mr. K Siblini, Consultant
Questions and Discussion
13.00 LUNCH
14.00 World Bank Mission View
Ms G Gopal, Task Manager, SRP
14.30 SRP Reaction and Proposed Way Forward
Mr C Mambo, Coordinator, SRP
Questions and Discussion
16.00 Closing Remarks          Chairperson



Appendix A                                                                                                  48
SOCIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
MID-TERM REVIEW - STAKEHOLDERS MEETING
10 SEPTEMBER 1998
NAME                 POSITION/INSTITUTION              ADDRESS
1.   C. M. Mbokoma        Community Deveve/opment Officer   PO Box 44, Chongwe
2.   B.N. Nakaanda        Council Secretary/Planner          PO Box 620061, Kalomo
3.   Levyson Banda        District Planner                   PO Box 55001, Katete
4.   Sylvester Mwanza     Regional Officer                   PO Box 510516, Chipata
5.   Dawson Ngoma         Regional Officer                   PO Box 240557, Ndola
6.   F. M. Mwape          Regional Officer                   PO Box 61061, Livingstone
7.   Stan Chisanga        Regional Officer                   PO Box 410169, Kasama
8.   Cosmas B Mambo       Coordinator - SRP                  PO Box 50268, Lusaka
9. - Darfy Paul Chaponda   Consultant                                    N
10.  Frank Kakungu        Consultant
11.  Solomon Tembo        Consultant                        __ ._,_._._._._
12.  Joshua Chilyuka      Project Chairman
13.  Benny E. L. Zulu     Coordinator - MPP
14.  A Malumo             Network Manager - MPU                         ..
15.  John T Milimo        PAG Consultant                    PO Box 51080, Lusaka
16.  Gita Gopal           C/o World Bank                    202 473 6835, Washington
17.  Stephen L Muyakwa    Consultant                        P.S. RW87X, Lusaka
18.  Marcus Betts         Project Officer (MCE)             UNICEF
19.  F.B. Nduna           Permanent Secretary - Copperbelt    PO Box 70153, Ndola
20.  C. M. Musumali       Study Fund                         PO Box 50268, Lusaka
* 21.  E Mwila Mbulo        Study Fund
22.  Veronica Siamuzwe    Project Chairperson                Chipongwe, Kafue



Appendix A                                                                                                   49
23.  Leo Sinke             Consti/tant - World Bank    .      .ollad
24.  Michael Nyirenda      Contracts/Procurement Oficer- MPi  P0 Box 50268, Lusaka=
25.  Musyani Sinkala       Field_ Officer - MPU    _ _._             .___
26.  Enock Banda           Senior Planner - MCDSS             P/B W252, Lusaka
27.  A. M. Siyanqwe        Consultant                         P0 Box 50904, L usaka
28.  Julie Van Domelen     World Bank                         Washington
29.  Emmanuel S Chisha    A/DPS - Northern Province           PO Box 410214, Kasama
30.  Clare Barkworth       MPU                                PO Box 50268, Lusaka
31   Robert Chase          Consultant
32.  Clement Siamatowe    World Bank RM                       P0 BOX 35410, Lusaka
33.  Geoffrey Chipota      MPU                                PO Box 50268, Lusaka
34.  Wedex Ilunga          MPU                            .              ,,
35.  Peter Chola           DDWA                               PO Box 50288, Lusaka
36.  Kamal Siblini         Consultant                  _        ___.
37.  Emmanuel Silanda      CSO - Assistant Director           PO Box 31908, Lusaka
38.  Pam Begedall          Consultant                         PO Box 34109, l1usaka
39.  Maryam Salim          World Bank                         1818 H Street, Washington
40.  James Mbewe           Acting Assistant Director (R?P)    PO Box 50268, Luisaka
41.  Barbara Collinson     Consultant, EEOA                   Lusaka            _
42.  K Reed                Advisor NAO                        L isaka
43.  2nd Secretary         Norwegian Embassy                  Lusaka
44.  George Sikazwe        Procurement & Disbursement         World Bank, Lusaka
45.  C. M. Mutale          MENR                               PO Box 34011, Lusaka
46.  E.D. Mwale            MPU                      ___ PO Box 50268, Lu.saka
47.  Vincent Musowe        Director, Planning & Dev MOH       PO Box 30205, L-usaka
. 48.  Nathan M Jere       Buildings Depatment                PO Box 50800, Lusaka
49.  Oliver Saasa          INESORIUNZA                  _    PO Box 30900, Lusaka
/ 50.L.. C Mbangweta       MOfED                              PO Box 50062, Lusaka



Appendix B                                                                    50
Executive Summary
BORROWERS IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Social Recovery Project I
IDA Credit 2273 ZA
1     Description of The Project
The objectives of the Project were to fund community initiatives to help mitigate the negative
effects on the poor of the economic crisis. To this end the Project supported the rehabilitation and
improvement of existing infrastructure and service delivery through the Microprojects Unit in the
Ministry of Finance. The Project intended to strengthen communities' ability to improve their
situation through self help. Further the Project was to improve the information base and provide
analysis to enhance the Government's planning and policy making in the social sectors.
There were three components to the Social Recovery Project:
(i)   Community Initiatives. The Project financed a series of small, simple and locally
generated sub projects in health, nutrition, education and economic infrastructure. To
ensure the sub-projects sustainability, community involvement and strengthen
communities' capacity and rekindle the spirit of self help, communities were required to
contribute (about 25%) to sub-project costs in the form of labor, materials and cash.
(Ii) Institutional Support for the MPU
(Iii) Analysis and Monitoring which included support for national statistical surveys, a
beneficiary assessment, and a studies fund that financed a series of studies related to
poverty and adjustment.
The Community Initiatives Component
The Social Recovery Project (SRP) community initiatives component joined the EU funded
Microprojects Programme (MPP) to form the Microprojects Unit (MPU) in 1991. The Social
Recovery Fund (SRF) of US $20 million was made available over six years to the Government of
Zambia through an IDA credit facility. The outcome of the mid term review held in May 1994 was
that the Government of Zambia identified a need for a second SRP. SRP II was negotiated and
became effective in 1995.
The Microprojects Unit (MPU) is based in the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
under the Economic Development and Budget Division and is a semi autonomous unit which
employs 25 professional full time staff, 20 of whom are funded by SRP. A network of Regional
Offices has been developed throughout the country, which support and facilitate district and
community activities.
Since its inception, the SRP has disbursed a total of US $ 20.4 million of which US $ 14.7 million
was disbursed to 373 community based projects throughout the country. The majority of the projects
are in the education sector followed by health and water and sanitation.
PovertyAnalysis and Monitoring
The analysis and monitoring component supports national statistical surveys and a studies fund
that finances a series of studies related to poverty and adjustment.
The objective of the poverty monitoring component was to provide rapid and accurate statistical
information for monitoring the impact of the Structural Adjustment Programme on the different
population groups. The specific objectives included:



Appendix B                                                                       51
(a)  Build capacity at the Central Statistical Office (CSO) for the production of social
indicators.
(b)  Collect, compile and disseminate various forms of Social Statistics to monitor the effects
of Structural Adjustment Program.
(c)  Carry out household surveys in order to identify vulnerable groups in the country and
monitor changes.
(d)  Provide policy makers with accurate and timely statistics.
The main objective of the Study Fund was to support policy relevant studies, the dissemination of
research findings and to build local research capacity. The focus of its activities was on the
analysis of poverty issues, of the social and economic impact of the economic reforms more
especially on vulnerable groups and on the analysis of current government policies particularly in
the social sector
2 Achievement of Project Objectives
The objectives were reviewed several times and were flexible enough to respond to GRZ
priorities.
2 1    Community Initiatives Component
Support the Rehabilitation and Improvement of Existing Infrastructure and Service Delivery
The SRP funded 373 projects between 1991 and 1998. Early in the life of the Project, the rate of
expenditure was faster than anticipated at appraisal but slowed down as the commitments reached
US $ 17 million and SRP II became effective. The Project was meant to close the 31st July 1997
but an extension of 12 months was approved to allow Zambia to benefit from of an exchange rate
gain between the dollar and the Special Drawing Rights (SDR).
70% of projects supported by SRP I were in the education sector, 19% in health, and the rest in
training, economic infrastructure, credit and so on. Most social sector and economic infrastructure
had a water and sanitation component which are not reported separately but form part of the
microproject. 50% of project targets are actually in the water and sanitation sector.
The infrastructure created by the Project also improved the accessibility, the availability and the
quality of the service as well as improved the management of the resources.
Reduction of distances to the facility, reduced congestion at health centres, especially for women,
reduced child mortality, improved health status, improved family planning, immunisation, sanitation,
health education were some of the perceived benefits in the health sector. Education projects
improved the learning environment, teacher morale, increased attendance, pupil performance and
pupil enrolment, reduced vandalism and the need for maintenance. Willingness to pay school fees
and improvement in the quality of services was also recorded. Project schools have a higher
number of classes, lower pupil/teacher ratio in rural areas and higher pupil/teacher ratio in urban
areas, above average percentage trained teachers than non project schools, especially in rural
areas and an increasing attendance rate (from 83% to 89%). In MPU assisted health centers there
was an increased number of supervisory visits, better privacy, improved availability of working
toilet/latrine and water supply, a substantial increase in the numbers of clients, increase in
enrolled nurses and family health nurses and better delivery of drug kits.
Finance Community Initiatives to help protect the poor during the structural adjustment period
The SRP targeted the capacitated poor - those who are able to help themselves. SRP was demand
led but various mechanisms were put in place to ensure that the poor had access to the fund and
benefited from it.



Appendix B                                                                     52
These were:
1     Rigorous procedures at application and appraisal ensure that the poor benefit,
2     Type of Project - only simple, small projects which meet the basic needs of the poor are
approved.
3     Participatory Assessments - the Participatory Assessment Group (PAG) assists targeted
communities discuss their problems and requirements for interventions.
4     Mapping Exercise for strategic planning
5     Evaluations and Beneficiary Assessments (BA)assess whether the benefits of the SRP
reach the poor
Generally the BA's have found that the beneficiaries in both rural and urban areas belong to-low
income groups. The participation of the poor in the projects depends on how well informed and
organized they are, type of community contribution required and whether there is a felt need for
the project. Improved facilitation skills, training at district level, more time spent with
communities were factors which contributed to the improved level of community participation
especially that of the poor and women.
Evidence suggests that even the poorest districts are accessing the Project intervention but
generally poorest rural districts had fewer projects than expected than the less poor districts. An
analysis using the centrality variable, which measures the proximity of households to urban
centers, showed that in the selected districts 40 % of the projects are situated in poorest remote
areas and in some rural districts, remote areas have more than the expected numbers of projects
per poor population.
Strengthen Communities and Rekindle Spirit of Self Help  Community participation is the
corner stone of the Project and key to its success. The implementing community is expected to
contribute about 25% of project costs and participate in the planning, implementation,
management and maintenance of the project. By doing so, it has been shown that the capacity of
the community is enhanced and they are better able to plan, implement, manage and maintain
development. By participating in their own development, a sense of ownership has been nurtured
and communities feel more capable and motivated. The sense of responsibility has been instilled
and it is more likely that a project will be maintained and sustained.
In order to enhance community participation, SRP has continually reassessed interventions which
influence the ability of the community to implement projects. Various evaluations have noted the
increased sense of self reliance, improved management of resources by communities, improved
technical skills and increased sense of responsibility as a result of participating in a project.
Strengthen Institutions Involved  The MPU grew rapidly under the SRP I. Although the
disbursements to incremental costs for SRP I and SRP II averaged 18% between 1992 and 1997,
the actual institutional support costs were higher than those anticipated at appraisal. The SRP I
supported a Regional Office network in all Provinces except two instead of the one Regional
Office budgeted for at appraisal. The experience with the initial Regional Officer in Northern
Province led to Regional Offices being set up in all the Provinces during 1992. The linkages with
District staff became much stronger as the Regional Officers worked with them, roles were
clarified and training in project cycle activities implemented. As District staff became more
involved in the MPU activities, the linkage between them and implementing communities also
improved. Various studies report that the SRP within the MPU is a cost effective delivery
mechanism, maintaining a learning process within a task orientated work culture. It has been
noted that the MPU fulfills its role as an executive funding agency.
In line with the Government policy of decentralization, the SRP focused its capacity building
efforts mostly at district and community levels. Despite the fact that government was slow to



Appendix B                                                                     53
implement its decentralization policy, SRP facilitated the formation of District teams in all
districts and supported a capacity building and training program from early 1995. The SRP
procedures have given scope for district level officials of Council and Line Departments to play an
enabling role in sensitising communities and articulating local needs. The capacity of district staff to
communicate with communities has improved. The creation of a demand led bottom up
development prevailing in some districts has been credited to the SRP. This works best where a
District Development Co-ordinating Committee (DDCC) functions.
SRP has also built the capacity at community level. Improved facilitation techniques and skills,
more time spent with the community at the project site, on the job training at monitoring and so
on were measures put in place to enhance the community capacity to plan and manage their own
development. Communities have been empowered to undertake more development work after
finishing MPU activities.
2.2    Achievement of Project Objectives Poverty Analysis and Monitoring Component
Monitoring Poverty Statistical Surveys  The first Social Dimensions of Adjustment
Priority Survey I was conducted in October/November, 1991. The standard World Bank
prototype questionnaire was used as the basis for development of a locally accepted
questionnaire. Several user/data producer meetings resulted in an extended questionnaire which
would suit local conditions and data needs. The results of the PS I were made available at the end
of 1992. The Priority Survey II was conducted in 1993 and a community questionnaire added to
it. The results of the PS II were disseminated in December 1994.
The PS I provided the government with poverty data which had not previously been available.
The incidence of poverty had increased to 70% and the poverty debate was initiated in Zambia. A
number of policy reforms were initiated as a result. The PS I also provided the data for the
Poverty Assessment for Zambia analysis which in turn formed the basis for 'Reducing Poverty in
Zambia'.
Although the capacity in CSO was weak for the implementation of PS I, PS II provided
opportunities for capacity building in data processing especially in the Provinces. After the PS II
survey the poverty concern became more aggressive as poverty increased to 76% and
government, donors and NGOs began to take action on poverty issues.
The SRP also facilitated the process of qualitative poverty monitoring which was undertaken on
an annual basis at several sentinel sites. The qualitative data and the peoples perception of
poverty provided policy makers with excellent insight into the impact of various policies.
Analysis Component The Swedish government supported the Study Fund and SE Kr 5,308,742
was used to finance a total of 34 studies during SRP I. Eleven of these were priority studies and
23 were small studies. The health, nutrition and food security sectors were well supported. Many
studies analysed the data collected by the PS I and II. The SRP I Mid Term Review (1994)
concluded that the Study Fund had developed viable procedures that support policy-related
research. Mechanisms of selection, review and monitoring of studies were put in place, the
quality of research proposals improved as a result, which proved to be of crucial importance to
the project component.
In order to improve the sense of ownership for policy related research by government policy
makers, planners and implementors, the Study Fund Committee was enlarged to include all major
social sector ministries and institutions; policy makers were involved in the review process as
well as direct participation of members of staff from stakeholder institutions in the studies as
researchers.



Appendix B                                                                    54
All the evidence shows that to a great extent the development objectives of SRP I were achieved.
A substantial number of social infrastructures were improved and expanded, improving the
service delivery to poor communities and to remote areas of Zambia. The capacity of
participating communities to plan and manage their development has been enhanced. The Project
has instilled a sense of self reliance. The capacity of district staff has improved in such a way that
they are now better able to facilitate the process of community led development. The SRP,
managed through the MPU, has maintained an efficient and effective delivery of service. The
capacity of CSO to produce social statistics which monitor poverty and identify vulnerable
groups improved and policy makers were provided with accurate statistics which were analyzed
and used for policy change.
3     Factors Affecting Project Implementation
Change in Political Environment
Zambia underwent its first multi party election in 1991, followed by its second election in 1996.
Some politicians became aware of the Project and the SRP took time to explain to them the
conditionalities so that communities were not misinformed. The stringent selection process
applied at district level often disallowed 'political' projects.
Decentralization and Public Sector Reform
The Government of Zambia committed itself to an ambitious economic reform program including
privatization, deregulation and to Public Sector Reform Program which included improved
human resource management and retrenchment. During the period of implementation the
Ministry of Health, Education and Agriculture made progress towards decentralization but there
remained a need for these groups to be coordinated at District level. In order to provide
coordination, the, Ministry of Local Government and Housing was committed to establishing
DDCCs which would coordinate sector boards and committees and which would report to the
PDDC and thus to a NDCC: Although some DDCCs have been established, few are functioning.
In the absence of functioning DDCCs, the SRP has therefore played a role in the process of
coordinated development planning at district level. Lately, in some districts, the process has been
assisted by District Planning Officers (DPO) which have been employed by District Councils.
The DPOs have had a positive impact on project implementation.
MPU funds were intended to be one of many funding sources which would reinforce
decentralized planning and decision making. MPU funds are presently, in most districts, the only
development funds available for district planning and development.
The SRP had assumed that a certain amount of capacity building in planning and management
would be done by the Ministry of Local Government. This has not been the case and the SRP has
had to assume a capacity building function. The capacity of district staff is now mostly adequate
for their agreed role within the MPU context. The district staff have shown that, if given the
responsibility and skills, they can be dedicated and committed to the job but the ongoing
restructuring exercise has affected their morale.
Poverty and Drought
Between 1991 and 1993 the incidence of poverty rose from 70% of the population to 74%.
Although the incidence of poverty dropped to 69% in 1996, 77% of the poor were living in
extreme poverty. Rural poverty remained worse during the period and is related to inadequate
information on marketing and prices, inaccessible markets and unavailability of inputs. Rural
poverty was compounded by droughts in 1992 and 1993 in some areas and inaccessibility caused
by flooding in other years and areas. Communities found it difficult to contribute to projects



Appendix B                                                                    55
especially in worst hit Western and Southern provinces. In these areas, the SRP reduced the
community contribution and paid unskilled labor, but nevertheless the speed of implementation
was affected.
During this time, food for work projects became common place, even in areas and in years when
it may not have been needed. Communities began to expect food for work and would cease
contributing to the MPU project so as to work on projects where they might benefit from the
food. The ownership and subsequent sustainability of food for work projects has been found to be
problematic.
Supplies of Materials
Some building materials were not available in some rural Provinces, especially roofing sheets and
cement. Quality school furniture has also been difficult for some communities to procure.
Although the SRP attempted to assist communities by procuring and delivering the materials and
furniture, central procurement has caused problems, except for very specialized medical and solar
equipment. Problems have been associated with accountability, storage, procurement procedures
and delivery.
Institutional Base for Poverty Monitoring
It was not easy to expeditiously complete the analysis of the Priority Survey results because of the
ad hoc nature of the team constituted to carry out the work. The problem was compounded by the
inadequate management of consultancy inputs, lack of capacity within the CSO and the size of
the initial survey.
Management of Funds for Poverty Monitoring Component
T'he component was not able to complete annual surveys as anticipated because the budget for the
component was underestimated. The management was also not familiar with procurement and
expenditure rules which resulted in a series of errors leading to a suspension of funding for 18
months to the component.
4     SUSTAINABILITY
4.1    Community Initiatives Component
The SRP addressed 'sustainability' from the following perspectives:
* maintenance of the infrastructure created by the Project;
* sustainability of the service delivered by the infrastructure; and
* sustainability of the development processes developed by SRP.
Various strategies were put in place to enhance the likelihood of these aspects of sustainability.
SRP used the following mechanisms to improve the likelihood that the physical infrastructure
created by the Project would be maintained:
* enhance sense of community ownership and responsibility;
* enhance community organization and capacity for maintenance;
*  ensure technical quality during construction phase.
The sense of community ownership and responsibility has been enhanced through community
participation in projects. Communities are however receiving mixed messages as to who is
responsible and generally have inadequate maintenance knowledge and skills. The SRP has
recently attempted to address the issues of maintenance by leading the maintenance discussion at
national policy level, facilitating discussion with the communities on maintenance throughout the



Appendix B                                                                     56
project cycle, improving the technical and maintenance skills of those assisting and supervising
communities and aiming for higher technical quality constructions during project implementation.
There is ample and recent evidence showing that the service delivered by the infrastructure has
improved as a result of the project.
The SRP has developed an approach to community based development which responds to need
and demand. In the long term, the objective is to sustain the development process which responds
to community need and which results in an accountable and responsive relationship between the
users and providers. Recent studies have remarked that SRP has been successful in developing
the capacity of its two collaborating institutions, the districts and communities.
The development process depends on responsiveness and efficiency of the funding agent, in this
case the MPU. Based on visible results and various evaluations, the Government of Zambia
recognizes the MPU as a unit that delivers effectively and efficiently. The Government
recognizes the mechanism of community led and managed development as one that works and
that the demand for projects from communities remains unfulfilled.
Monitoring
Several staff have been trained in statistical data processing, analysis and report writing. The
component has created an increased demand for up to date data on poverty indicators which
govermnent would wish to see fulfilled. The Living Conditions Monitoring Unit (LCMU) has
been set up in the Central Statistics Office and its mandate is to monitor living conditions and
poverty on a regular basis in Zambia.
Poverty Analysis
The government notes that the Study Fund functions and activities will remain relevant to policy
makers for years to come as long as data is available for analysis and policy relevant
interpretation. The Study Fund has strengthened important linkages between policy makers,
research and data collectors. The linkages between the concerned institutions need to be
formalized.
5     Lessons Learnt
Management of Information. The SRP has relied on external evaluations to assess progress.
Monitoring and evaluation has been done on an ad hoc basis across the various departments and
not collected and analyzed under one function. Indicators are collected but not analyzed, and
indicators for effectiveness, efficiency and sustainability are not presented. The SRP developed
the Microproject Monitoring System (MMS) but it has been used to monitor only a few critical
social impact indicators. The SRP has recently commissioned a study 'Measuring the Attainment
of Development Objectives' and the impact indicators were retrofitted for SRP I. The results are
impressive but it would have been helpful to have had them during the early life of the Project.
Self targeting has worked. The poor are willing to participate and contribute to projects provided
the contribution is appropriate and available to them. In the two poorest districts from each
Province, 40 % of the MPU (all donors) projects are located in remote areas and 35% within 30
kms from the district center. In many of the poorest remote areas, there are more than expected
number of projects per population. The poor have had access to the fund and have benefited from
it. Targeting is influenced by district capacity to inform communities and appraise, monitor and
supervise the projects.



Appendix B                                                                     57
Community Participation. The SRP has shown consistently that community participation in
development is a successful development strategy and that there is a relationship between
community participation, sense of ownership and sense of responsibility for maintenance and
sustainability. Even the poorest communities are able to contribute to, implement and manage
their projects given information and advice. Regular consultation with communities using
Beneficiary Assessments and other evaluations has been vital to enhancing the factors necessary
for effective community participation.
Community participation has posed various challenges:
The SRP is sensitive to the possibility of undermining self reliance. It attempts to support
community initiatives without creating a sense of dependency. The SRP sees its role as supporter
to existing community initiatives, one of a partner which supplies assistance only to those who
have visible evidence of self reliance rather than those which expect hand outs.
The SRP is not involved in pre project identification activities but relies on district staff, sub
district institutions, NGOs, churches, to facilitate the process of project identification with would
be participating communities. Experience has shown that if potential clients of the donor funds
receive information as to availability of the funds and the conditions attached, their requests are
likely to match the conditions of the donor, especially if the donor is involved with the
information dissemination.
Women usually participate in the unskilled, unpaid work but have found it difficult to become
equally involved as men in the decision making. The SRP now insists that at least 50% of the
project committee members should be women so that they too benefit more fully from the
empowerment gained from the management training of 'learning by doing'. The impact has yet to
be evaluated although the BA V has noted that there is a need for gender sensitization for district
staff and communities.
Community participation takes time but it is time well spent. The 1997 SRP Annual Report
shows that although the time for communities to prepare themselves has increased, the project
implementation time has decreased. Communities which are well prepared take a shorter time to
implement the project, have fewer problems during implementation and are more likely to
succeed and sustain the project.
MPUas an ExecutiveAgent  The MPU shows all the favorable elements of an agency: it is at
an arms length from its Ministry; it is objectives driven; it can hire and fire; it would close if it
ceased to attract commissions to implement projects; it is able to learn and adapt. The MPU has
attracted loan funds (SRP I, SRP II, ZERP, ROADSIP, ESP), government funds and donor grant
funds (EU, NORAD and Finland Grant). The loan funds ( and the grants managed by the SRP
through the World Bank) are managed according to conditions negotiated and agreed before
effectiveness. The ownership of the Project is with government, through the SRP. The MPU
experience is that some donor funds have not been easy to manage as conditions and procedures
are subject to change and the 'ownership' of the program appears to lie with the donor.
Policy Relevant Studies Studies which identified target groups and interventions were most
important to policy makers. Studies that were well focused and specifically targeted to serve an
explicit need of a particular institution have the strongest impact on policy making and
implementation. This is more especially the case where the stakeholder institution(s) are
involved in the research process.



Appendix B                                                                      58
6     World Bank Performance
In general the World Bank has been very supportive of the Social Recovery Project and its
performance very good. World Bank staff have been available to assist resolve queries and
problems and the disbursement department dealt promptly with withdrawal applications.
After mid term review, Task Managers seemed to have had too many other responsibilities during
their supervision missions, resulting in too few field visits which were necessary to understand
some of the pertinent issues facing the SRP management and communities that it serves. Often
supervision missions included persons who were not fully briefed on the history, purpose and
progress of this particular social investment fund.
A system to advise management of the available balance of the SDR was not in place, or if it
were in place, management were not made aware of the system. It was by accident that SRP
became aware of the undrawn balance of well in excess of US $ 1 million during a visit to
disbursements during the Social Fund workshop in May 1997, two months before intended
closure. The SRP management are now requesting monthly statements of the balance of SDR for
SRP II from the World Bank Resident Mission so as to effectively manage resources.
The World Bank should ensure that borrowers are aware of any intended changes to procurement
guidelines before these become effective so as to avoid possible misprocurement as a result of
being unaware of these changes. Training should precede implementation of the changes.
Out of the SKR 8 million for the Study Fund, the SRP was only able to access SKR 5.3 million.
The balance was never availed to the SRP by the World Bank, the administrator of the grant.
The Priority Survey component funded by a grant from the Government of Norway, involved a
twinning arrangement between the CSO and the Norwegian Bureau of Statistics. It was the
Norwegian Bureau of Statistics which decided when and who to send to Lusaka for consultancy
work. In a number of cases, the consultant sent was either not qualified to handle the task or
arrived out of schedule for the planned task.



Appendix C                                                                59
relephone: LUSAKA 254263/250481                                       In reply please quute:
Telex: ZA 42221
NO ................
F= 253494                              7 
relegram. FINANCE RDGEWAY
REPUBLIC OF ZAMB4A
MiNISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
OFFICE OF THE MINISTER
P.O. BOX 50062
RIDGEWAY, 15101
CHIMANGA ROAD
LUSAKA
20 November, 1998
Ms. Phyllis Pomerantz,
Country Director for Zambia
Africa Region
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
USA
Dear Phyllis,
RE: Zambia: Social Recovery Project 1 (Cr. 2273 ZA) - Implementation
Completion Report
Thank you for your letter of November 6, 1998 regarding the above project, and the draft
Implementation Completion Report which you forwarded with it.
Having read the draft ICR, we note with satisfaction the generally successful outcome of
the- Project and agree that the Report sufficiently reflects the views held by Government,
stakeholders, the Bank and independent evaluators. We have not made any editorial
comments, but enclose a brief seeking clarification on four substantive issues as an
attacbnient to this letter.
In view of the obvious success of the Social Recovery Project in mobilising our local
communities, particularly in rural areas, it is our considered opinion that the Bank should
consider extending the project. As the ICR aptly notes, the SRP has been more than
instrumental in galvanising local communities into actively participating in simple but
essential micrptVjwgqg fam identification. appraisal. implementation and ultimately
ownership of the projects. This unprecedented achievment would not have been realised
so soon had it not been for the SRP.



Append-ix C                                                              60
Apart from the success of the SRP, we have been persuaded to seek an extension of the
project due to practical considerations relating to ongoing Government efforts in
delivering conuiunity based development to our local communities. As you are well
aware, the Rural Investment Fund (RIF) under the Agriculture Sector Investment
Programme (ASIP) is oriented towards similar community based initiatives to create local
infrastructure that will facilitate agricultural development in rural and pen-urban areas. In
the brief period they have been in operation together, the SRP and the RIF have proved to
be very effective in their complimentary role, essentially due to the remarkable
effectiveness of the implementation infrastructure that has evolved under the SRP. I
therefore feel that an extension to the SRP will play a pivotal role in consolidating the
positive community spirit achieved by the project, which will provide good groundwork
for other similar Government initiatives formulated towards similar objectives.
I have no doubt that you share my excitement about the success of the SRP, and in this
regard, hope that you agree with our assessment that the Bank considers extending this
vital project. My satisfaction with the SRP is accentuated by the fact that it has provided a
valuable means of addressing the tremendous pressure that has been put on Govemment
to assuage the desperate social conditions which Zambia is experiencing at present.
I trust that you will be able to give us your favourable consideration, and await a response
from you at your earliest convenience.
Yours sincerely,
EditZ. Nawakwi, M
MINISTER OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
cc:   Mr. Boniface Nonde, Permanent Secretary (Budget & Economic Affairs),
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development, LUSAKA, Zambia
Mr. Cosmas B. Mambo, Coordinator, SRP 1 & 2, LUSAKA, Zambia
Mr. Godfrey Goaseb, Executive Director, World Bank, Washington, D.C., USA
Mr. Laurence Clarke, Resident Representative, World Bank, LUSAKA, Zambia
Mr. Jon Lomoy, Ambassador, Embassy of Norway, LUSAKA, Zambia
Ms. Christina Svensson, Ambassador, Embassy of Swed$   LUSAKA. Zambia
Mr. Markku Laananen, Counsellor, Embassy of Finland, LTUSAKA, Zambia



Appendix C                                                               61
Comments on the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the Zambia: Social
Recovery Project (Credit 2273 ZA)
1.    Part 1: Evaluation Summary
Paragraph 1: Project Description and Objectives. The paragraph reads as though the
existing EU were already involved in Poverty Analysis and Monitoring. This component
was exclusively SRP managed and the EU MPP was not involved in these activities
2.    Part II: Project Performance
Paragraph 14. While we agree with the substantive discussion and conclusion in the
paragraph, for the sake of clarity we would change the first sentence to read as follows:
'"Due to differing financial policies, collaboration and linkages between the community
initiative component financed by the-SRP and the Microprojects Programme financed by
the European Union resulted in some confusion in the early stages."
3.    Borrower Performance
Paragraph 31. The mission found that the MPU was not as successful in developing
close linkages with the central level Ministry of Education officials as it was with the
Ministry of Health. It would seem that this situation is not a reflection on MPU
performance but rather the ability of the Ministry of Education to facilitate the flow of
information within its own Ministry on matters which directly affect the education sector.
An independent evaluation found that although the MPU has forged linkages at district
level, vertical flow of information within sector ministries was inadequate. It was
concluded that govenmment sector ministries should address this issue.
4.    Assessment of Outcome
Paragraph 34. The ICR assesses the outcome of the microprojeet component of the SRP
as 'satisfactory'. We are not sure of the criteria used, but we feel that the outcome of the
community initiatives should be classified as 'highly satisfactory'. The component
achieved its objectives, its impact has been real and visible, the evidence shows that the
component has had an impact on the living conditions of the poor, and the project has
given value for money.



MAP SECTION



Lake                Le                TANZANIA
Z  A   M   B  I A                                       Mae,u                    M                    T. MZA
-     TRUNK AND MAIN ROADS  RIVERS
>v*~~~~~~ RAILROADS                     PROVINCE BOLUNDARIES g wmw   Y%  5A
, -     \o0 SELECTED CITIES                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
2uP  =PAt
NATIO    OTSWAAL CTAL                                                    N .  V
B~~~~~~~~~DM REP. OF CONGO



