Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9471-ZA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZAMBIA
SOCIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
MAY 21, 1991
Population and Human Resources
Southern Africa Department
.is document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit  = Zambian Kwacha (K)
K/US$ (annual average)
1985         2.71
1986         7.30
1987         8.89
1988         8.22
1989        12.90
1990        4'.40 (end-December)
FISCAL YEAR
Government   =   January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS    Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CSo      Central Statistical Office
DC       District Council
EC       European Community
ERC      Economic Recovery Credit
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ILS      International and Local Shopping
LCB      Local Competitive Bidding
MGEYS   Ministry of General Education, Youth and Sports
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MOH      Ministry of Health
MPU      Microprojects Unit
NGO      Non-governmental Organization
PC       Project Committee
PIC      Prices and Incomes Commission
PPU      Provincial Planning Unit
PS       Priority Survey
SAE      Social Action Program
SSS      Social Statistics Sub-committee
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
UNESCO  United Nations Education, Science and . lture
Organization
UNFPA    United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF  United Nations Children Fund
UTH      University Teaching Hospital
WGs      Working Groups
WHO      World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
BASIC DATA   .                           . . .         . . . . . . . . . . . .               i
CREDIT AND PROJECT VPr4MARY   .                     . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             ii
E3TIHATED COSTS,  FINANCING PLAN AND IDA DISBURSEMENTS  . . . . . .                       iii
I. INTRODUCTION .                    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
tA.  Economic Background  .           .. ......    . . . . .        .1. .      . .
B. The Economic Recovery Program  .   .   .   . . . . . . . . . . .   2
C.  The Social Action Program .   .   .   .   . . . . . . . . .    . .               3
II. THE SOCIAL SECTORS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
A.  Education  ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .6
B.  Health   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       8
C.   Nutrition and Food Security  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
D.   Donor and World Bank Experience  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
III.   THE PROPOSED PROJECT   ....  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    16
A.   Objectives and Summary Description   . . . . . . . . . . .   16
B.   Detailed Project Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
IV.  COSTS,  FINANCING, MANAGEMENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
A.   Project Cost   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
B.   Financing Plan   ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    25
C.   Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
D.   Procurement  ....  .           .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .    .    28
E.   Disbtursement   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    31
F.  Accounting,  Auditing and Reporting   . . . . . . . . . . .   33
V. BENEFITSANDRISKS    ..35
A. Benefits .35
B. Risks .35
VI. RECOMMENDATIONQ AND ASSURANCES .36
This report Is based on the findings of three missions to Zambia In September 1990
(identification), November 1990 (pro-appraisal) and February-March 1991 (appraisal).
The appraisal team included Messrs/Mmes. Steen L. Jorgensen (mission leader,
economist), Mary Barton (consultant, economist), Robert Chase (consultant,
economist), Lawrence Salmen (sociologist), lb Thomsen (consultant, statistician) and
BJorn Wold (consultant, statistician). Othor mission members included Messrs/Mmes
Ruth Kagia (educator), Rae Galloway (nutritionist), Barry Riley (food security
specialist), Susan Ulbaok (economist), and Pelad Namfus (consultant, statistician).
Peer reviewers includo: Messrs/Mimes. Eugene Boostrom, Margaret Grosh, Jean-Louis
Lamboray, Alexandr- Mare, Judith McGuire, Caroline Moser and Aubrey Williams. Ms.
Dora Hollister provided secretarial support in the preparation of the report. Mr. D.
de Ferranti and Mr. S. Denning are the managing Division Chief and Department
Director, respectively, for the operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXs
I.  DETAILS OF INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38
II.  LIST OF EC-FUNDED MICRO-PROJECTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
III. SUB-PROJECT CATEGORIES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . ..  49
IV. APPLICATION FORM .             . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .  52
V.  BENEFICIARY ASSESSENT . . . . . . . . . .   . . .  . ....  .  63
VI.  BUDGET FOR ANALYSIS AND MONITORING . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  64
VII. SUPERVISION SCHEDULE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  67
VIII. DOCU1ENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PRtOJECT FILE . . . . . . . . . . .  70
LIST OF TABLES
Table 4.1: Summary Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
Table 4.2: Project Financing  . . . ............    ..              26
Table 4.3: Financing Plan for Analysis and Monitoring Program . . .  27
Table 4.4: Procurement Arrangements .       ..    . . .  30
Table 4.5: Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit.      . . .   32
Table 4.6: Disbursement Profile . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   32
LIST OF FIGURES
Figure 3.1: Distribution of Funds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
Map No. 11542R



BASIC DATA"1
GNP per capita                                                US$290
Total population                                              7.6 mlllion
Average annual population growth rate (1980-1988)             3.7 percent
Life expectancy at birth                                      53 years
Crude birth rate per 1,000                                    50
Crude death rate per 1,000                                    13
Population per physician (1984)                               7,150
Population per nursing person (1984)                          740
Infant mortality rate (per 1,600 live births)                 78
Adult literacy                                                24 percent
Sources World Development Report 1990
Unless otherwise indicated, figures refer to 1988



- ii -
ZAMBIA: SOCIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Zambia
Beneficiary:       Ministry of Finance
Credit Amount:    SDR 14.8 million
Terms:             Standard IDA Terms
Project Description
(a)   Objectives:
To fund community initiatives to help mitigate the negative
effects on the poor of the economic crisis. To this end, the
Project will support the rehaLilitation and improvement of
existing infrastructure and service delivery through the
Microprojects Unit in the Ministry of Finance. The Project will
strengthern communities' ability to improve their situation through
self-help. Further, the Project will improve the information base
and provide analyses to enhance the Government's planning and
policy making in the social sectors.
(b)   Components:
(i) Community Initiatives. The Project will finance a series oi
small, simple and locally-generated sub-projects in health,
nutrition, education and economic infrastructure. To ensure the
sub-proiects' sustainability and community involvement,
communities will be required to contribute to sub-project cost in
the form of labor, materials or cash.
(ii) Institutional Support for the Micro-- 4ects Unit.
(iii) Analysis and Monitoring. This includes support for national
statistical surveys, a beneficiary assessment, and a studies fund
that will finance a series of studies related to poverty and
adjustment.
(c)   Justification and Risks
The direct benefits of the proposed project will be the physical
and human capital improvements generated by the sub-projects. The
indirect benefits fall in three categories. First, this Project
and other concerted donor support to the Social Action Program
will help sustain Zambia's adjustment efforts. Second, as the
Project supports local, self-help activities, it will help to
promote decentralized initiatives and devolve responsibility for
providing services and maintaining infrastructure from the central
government to local agencias. The Monitoring Component will
provide a means to collect information and conduct analyses that
will inform the Government's efforts to design social policies.
The main risk is that the Project could be hampered by the Govern-
ment's limited implementation capacity. This risk will be
minimized by encouraging simplicity in sub-project design,
building on local and regional initiatives, and providing institu-
tional support for the Microprojects Unit.



- iii -
ESTIMATED COSTS, FINANCING PLAN AND IDA DISBURSEMENTS
Estimated Costs
(in million US$)              X      2 of
Local   Foreign   Total    Foreign    Total
Community Initiatives       39.6     1.6    41.2           3.9?   88.8?
Institutional Support        1.1     1.6      2.7         59.2Z    5.72
Analysis and Monitoring      1.1     0.8      1.9         41.9?    4.22
Total Base Costs            41.8     4.0    45.8           8.7?   98.7?
Price Cnntingencies          0.1     0.1      0.2         54.5?    0.6?
Physical Cuntingencies       0.2     0.2      0.4         48.3?    0.72
Total Project Cost          42.1     4.3    46.4           9.3?  100.0?
Financing Plan
(US$ million, including contingencies)
Zambia   IDA      EC    Norway   Total
---------------------------------------
Sub-projects               9.1   18.2   13.9        0      41.2
Institutional Support        0    1.8    1.1        0       2.9
Analysis and Monitoring      0      0       0     2.2       2.2
Total                      9.1   20.0   15.0      2.2      46.4
Estimated Disbursement of IDA Credit
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year       FY92     FY93     FY94      FY95    FY96    FY97
Annual                 2.1      3.3       4.4      4.6     4.2      1.4
Cumulative             2.1      5.4       9.8     14.4    18.6    20.0
Cumulative (2)        10.4?    26.8?    48.9?    72.0?   93.0?  100.O0
Project Completion Date:
January 31, 1997



I. INTRODUCTION
A. Economic Background
1.1        In the mid-1970s the vulnerability of the Zambian economy due
to its heavy dependence on opper was vividly demonstrated. World
copper prices fell sharply and continued to decline in real terms until
1987. The resulting deterioration in Zambia's terms of trade threw the
economy into a deep recession from which it has yet to recover. A
decline in copper production (from about 700,000 tons to less than
450,000 tons) during the same period exacerbated the effects of the
worsening terms of trade.
1.2        During most of the 1970s and early 1980s, the aim of economic
policy was to maintain consumption levels and living standards, despite
declining copper earnings. Subsidies were increased, fiscal deficits
grew and, after foreign loans dried up, domestic credit expanded. The
nominal exchange rate was kept fixed and price controls were tightened
in an effort to contain the accelerating inflation. The resulting price
distortions contributed to a severe misallocation of resources, an
increased import intensity of production, and further discouragement of
non-traditional exports. Agr4culture, the sector believed to have the
greatest growth and export potential, and where many of the poor are
economic actors, stagnated due to a lack of incentives caused by price
distortions, (especially on maize). The result was a fall of 50 percent
in GNP per capita during the 1980s.
1.3        In the past decade the Government tried several times to
restructure the economy. None of efforts were sufficiently
comprehensive to bring about the structural changes required in the
economy. Probably the most ambitious was the Bank/Fund-supported
program in 1985-87, which the Gove-nment abandoned in May 1987 on the
grounds that it generated excessive 3conomic and political instability,
and social unrest.
1.4        This program was replaced by the Government's own adjustment
program, which did not bring about the needed stability, growth and
structural change. Public rector expenditures were not adjusted to
coincide with fiscal reality. Instead, the Government maintained high
public wage payments and subsidies to the detriment of maintenance and
investment needs. Because much of the country's infrastructure
(including health and education facilities) was planned when copper
prices were high, the over-ambitious design of many facilities required
high maintenance outlays. With budget allocations to maintenance and
investment falling, infrastructure became seriously dilapidated. During
the high-expenditure years, communities developed a dependency on
central government interventions, and government hand-outs undermined
the Zambians' spirit of self-help and self-reliance.
1.5        The economy became increasinSly unstable between 1987 and
1989. Inflation rose from about 35 percent in 1986 to 64 percent in
1988, and then surged to 154 percent in 1989. For the most part, this
acceleration in inflation took place during a period of stringent price



- 2 -
controls, and fixed :xchange and interest rates."2 Economic activity
was increasingly being shifted to the parallel market in the 1987-89
period, and therefore out of government control: the smuggling of goods
to neighboring countries, including essential and subsidized consumer
items, became rampant. There were almost constant shortages of
essential goods on the local market, including vegetable oil, detergents
and maize meal (even following good harvests).
B. The Economic Recovery Program
1.6        Zambia resumed its policy dialogue with the World Bank and
UL.  Fund in late 1988.  Since then, the Government has taken several
actions to stabilize the economy, begin the restructuring process, and
put the country back on a growth path. To slow money supply growth, the
Government raised interest rates and reserve requirements.   To lessen
the burden of paying subsidies and decrease the budget deficit, the
constumner price of maize meal was tripled. A coupon scheme was
introduced so that the maize meal subsidy will be targeted to assist
vulnerable groups. There was also a 25 percent devaluation of the
Kwacha at the time. Subsequently, the Government reached agreement with
tl"e Bank and Fund on a Policy Framework Paper. In addition, an annual
Fund-monitored program for 1990 was approved by the Fund Steering
CoG.-ittee in March 1990.
1.7        The medium-term strategy expressed in the most recent Policy
Framework Paper3/ aims at diversifying the economy away from copper,
reducing the high capital and import intensity of production and
consumption, improving economic efficiency, increasing savings and
investment rates to restore economic growth, and improving social
services. In the short-term, the emphasis is on establishing a more
stable macroeconomic environment. The high and accelerating rate of
inflation that has prevailed since 1989 must be brought under control.
The Government must build political support to carry out the intended
policy reforms, particularly those involving the removal of long-
standing economic subsidies.
1.8        For the period 1989-93 the main macroeconomic targets
includes (a) achieving an average annual real GDP growth of at least
3.5 percent, with positive real per capita GDP growth in the later
years; (b) reducing progressively the rate of inflatior. from 154 percent
in 1989 to 15 percent or less in 1993; and (c) increasing non-
traditional exports by at least 10 percent per year in real terms.
Given the low starting point, the latter should not be too difficult to
achieve and is essential if the economy is to build an export base to
replace copper by the end of the decade.
V     Part of the 1989 inflation reflects the price decontrol, currency
depreciation and (partial) removal of subsidies in the second half
of that year.
S      l"Zambia: Policy Framework Paper, 1991-1993", IBRD, SecM91-l51,
February 7, 1991



1.9        The strategy for achieving macroeconomic stability entails a
substantial reduction of the fiscal deficit, mainly through an expansion
of revenxue axnd a rationalization of expenditures. Priorities will be
shifte6 toward social services, and operations and maintenance. The
reduced reliance on inflationary Government financing is to be
accompanied by a more stringent monetary policy. In addition, the
liberalizatior: and more effective use of imports under the program
should allow increased supplies on the domestic market, which should
help to suppress inflation.
1.10       To raise economic efficiency, tht Government intends to place
increased emphasis on market-determined pricing for allocating resources
and expanding the role of the private sector. The liberalization of
prices is expected to benefit primarily the agricultural sector. In
addition, the adoption of positive real interest rates should induce the
use of more labor-intensive production techniques, thereby increasing
efficiency.
1.11        Public sector activities will be redirected to such areas as
infrastructure and human resources that are complementary to the private
sector. Within this framework, particular attention is to be given to
improving the efficiency of public spending. To achieve more efficient
and development-oriented public spending, the Government will emphasize
maintenance and rehabilitation of infrastructure, as opposed to new
projects, and will provide increased allocations to agriculture, health,
and education.
C. The Social Action Prc&ram
1.12       The economic decline of the past 15 years has resulted in a
significant deterioration of living standards, particularly among the
poorest segments of society. In addition, some vulnerable groups may be
adversely affected in the short run by elements of the economic recovery
program, notably the decontrol of prices of essential commodities such
as maize meal, and the containment of fiscal outlays during the
transitional period.
1.13       To address the problems that the poor face and cushion the
impact of the economic adjustment program, the Government has launched a
SAP for 1990-93 as an integral part of its overall adjustment strategy.
The SAP aims to improve the availability of social services and
employment opportunities for the poor in the short run and to begin
initiatives in policy analysis and reform that will allow better service
delivery in the long run. There is a strong emphasis on rehabilitation
and repair of basic infrastructure, which has become seriously
dilapidated due to lack of maintenance. The SAP encompasses: education;
health; women in development; water supply, sanitation and other public
utilities; small-scale industries and employment generation; and
infrastructure. SAP activities range from simple, immediate impact
projects to complex, structural changes in sector policy, planning and
operations.



- 4 -
1.14       The SAP is a framework for action.  The basic SAP document
(available in Project Files) lays out the issues to be addressed in each
sector, but leaves open the detailed design of programs and projects,
and also implementation issues. A process is presently underway to
transform SAP priorities into operational mandates. To coordir - the
various institutions involved in the SAP, the Government has estaolished
a steering committee for the SAP with representatives from line
ministries, the National Commission for Development Planning, donors and
non-governmental organizations (NGOs). The Government has also formed a
series of Working Groups (WGs), one for each sector. The WGs: (a)
consider priority areas for SAP activities, (b) coordinate funding in
support of these prioritie- and (c) monitor and evaluate implementation
progress of SAP activities. The Government has also established the
position of "SAP Coordinator," responsible for keeping the SAP process
moving. Financed by the European Community (EC), the SAP Coordinator
has been in place since January 1991. In yearly progress reports, the
Government will demonstrate to IDA that the SAP process is bringing
donors, NGOs and Government ministries together to design, implement ard
monitor social sector operations (para. 6.1(e)).
1.15       The activities of the SAP can be divided into three main
areas:
policies to improve the small-scale business environment and
increase budget support for the social sectors;
-    longer term social development activities; and
-    short-term, immediate impact activities.
1.16       Policies to improve the business environment and increase
budget support: As part of the recently approved Economic Recovery
Credit (ERC) agreements, the Government will remove administrative
obstacles to the establishment and functioning of private businesses.
These policy improvements will enhance the contribution that small-scale
entrepreneurs can make to generating income and employment. Another
macroecornomic policy measure is the Government's commitment to increase
real budget allocations for health and education as part of the general
macroeconomic recovery program. The ERC includes agreements on the size
and composition of such increased budget allocations. In addition, this
Project includes dated covenants for real budget increases for non-
personal recurrent costs in health and education (para. 6.1(d)).
1.17       Longer term social development activities:  These activities
generally fall under ongoing, donor-supported Government programs. The
WGs are designed to promote dialogue on these issues, including
reallocation and adjustment of existing programs. Such changes sho..ld
help to improve the programs' impact on vulnerable groups. In the
future IDA intends to begin discussions of its contribution to longer
term activities in health, nutrition and education (Chapter II). Such
rctivities could include sector policy lending that will assist the
Government in addressing longer term issues.



5 -
1.18       Immediate impact activitiess  The main emphasis in the SAP is
on quick action. Several constraints make it difficult for traditional
projects to provide imm.ediate responses to pressing social sector
problems. There is a dearth of poverty-focused data and analysis in
Zambia; n-' government or donor initiatives have produced sufficient data
for clear targeting. Because it is not clear who will be affected by
specific policy changes and how they will be affected, it is
correspondingly diificult to focus traditional IDA interventions on the
most vulnerable groups. Further, the economic crisis has decimated many
str'tztures and systems that will otherwise provide social services and
employment opportunities for these vulnerable groups. The traditional
public sector entities' capacity is stretched to the limit with the
implementation of the necessary reforms and with the daily operations of
facilities and i:stitutions.
1.19       Because Zambia faces these constraints, the Government wishes
to rely on local communities to identify, design and implement immediate
impact actions under the SAP. To facilitate such actions, the
Government has asked IDA to support a series of local initiatives under
the SAP umbrella to be administered by the Microprojects Unit (HPU) in
the Ministry of Finance (MOF) (Chapter III).



- 6 -
II. THE SOCIAL SECTORS
2.1        This chapter ,rovides a brief overview of the situation in
the social sectors4' in Zambia and describes Bank and other donor
experiences in these sectors. Each section briefly describes the issues
in each sector and identifies possible IDA interventions to address such
issues. The primary issue that cuts across sectors is the lack of
sufficient maintenance resulting in seriously dilapidated
infrastructure. Further, there has been insufficient expansion in
infrastructure to keep pace with the rapid population growth. Thus, the
first priority is rehabilitation and expansion of infrastructure. To
ensure that needs are expressed and addressed at community levels and to
begin reorienting communities toward greater involvement, the Government
wishes to emphasize community-based projects in addressing this
priority.
2.2        Other common issues include: (a) weak donor-goverinment and
donor-donor coordination, (b) weak links between the Government and
NGOs, and (c) the need to ensure sufficient budget allocations. The
coordination issues are being dealt with in the context of the SAP
(para. 1.13) and progress will be monitored under this Project (para.
6.1(f)). Reasonable budget allocations to health and education are a
condition under the recently approved ERC, and progress will be
monitored under this Project (para. 6.1(e)).
2.3        The Chapter also assesses the Bank Group's experience in the
social sectors in Zambia and in similar projects in other countries.
Finally, an assessment is made of the experience of the EC-supported
Microprojects Programme, on which this project is based.
A. Education
2.4        During the 1980s, the progress made in the previous decades
has been largely reversed. Schools are in dire need of rehabilitation
after years of no maintenance. Construction and provision of materials
have not kept up with enrollments, resulting in over-crowded and under-
equipped classrooms. As a result, primary school class sizes are over
75 students in rural areas and 120 in urban areas. Even with such large
class sizes, 30 percent of the seven year olds in urban areas cannot
enter school becaust of lack of classrooms. Textbook supplies are so
limited that the best supplied schools have only one book for every six
students.
2.5        Responsibility for r-oviding education at all levels lies
mainly with the Government, although historically communities have
contributed substantially in the construction of nrimary level
infrastructure. Formal educrtion is the responsibility of three
The social sectors are defined here as health (including water and
sanitation), education, and nutrition and food security.



- 7 -
ministries: the Ministry of General Education, Youth and Sports (MGEYS)
that handles pre-primary, primary, secondary, special education,
continuing education and education broadcasting; the Ministry of Higher
Education, Science and Technology that handles technical and vocational,
university, and teacher education, as well as examinations, curriculum
development and school book publishing; and the Ministry of Labor,
Social Development and Culture that handles non-formal education
including adult education.
2.6        The share of the public budget allocated for education
declined from a high of 37 percent in 1978, to 16 percent in 1986, and
to 8 percent in 1989. Petween 1974 and 1984, expenditures per student
fell by 39 percent at the primary level, 51 percent at the secondary
level, and 20.5 percent at the university level in real terms. As a
dated covenant the Government will assure IDA that allocations to non-
personnel recurrent cost allocations to education will increase in real
terms in each budget beginning with the 1992 budget (pPra. 6.2(d)).
2.7        The severe cutbacks on educational expenditure have been
somewhat mitigated by external support to the sector. Further, citizens
have taken an increasingly large role in supporting education. Parental
contributions are at least K160 per child per year of primary education
and K400 per child per year of secondary education. Communities
contribute initiative and labor to build primary school buildings51 and
(though it does not result from declared Government policy) they buy
most of the learning inputs.  At the secondary school level parents pay
fees, while at the university a cost recovery program has recently been
introduced.
2.8        In schools where textbooks and furniture are available, these
materials have been provided largely through donor support. In 1988
development assistance to education amounted to US$10.7 million. Donors
include Canada, Finland, Japan, Norway, Sweden, the United Kingdom, the
African Development Bank, UNICEF, UNDP and UNESCO. A major problem with
donor support to education is poor coordination which sometimes leads to
conflicting strategies and a rather fragmented perception of the needs
of the sector. The WG for education established under the SAP will play
an important role in donor-government coordination.
2.9       The higni population growth rate generates a rapidly increasing
demand for classrooms. To maintain enrollments at par with the
population growth rate, it is necessary to construct at least 550 new
primary classrooms and 40 new junior secondary schools per year. For
the last five years, only about 25 percent of these targets have been
met.
2.10       Because of the drastic decrease in education resources
available, the education budget has been almost completely absorbed by
payments for teachers' salaries and other personnel emoluments. These
now account for 91 percent of the priniary school recurrent budget and 63
Mainly in rural areas.



- 8 -
percent of the secondary school recurrent budget. Thus, expenditures on
learning materials have fallen to about K7 (US$0.16) per student. This
shortage is one of the greatest problems facing Zambia's education
system. Though it reflects actual resource constraints, the shortage is
exacerbated by a weak local printing capacity and a poor distribution
system. Appropriate books are not available even if schools were
willing to pay for them. Several donor supported programs are underway
to help alleviate this problem.
Government Strategy
2.11       Government priorities for education are:  (a) reversing the
trends in access and qu-ality of education; (b) shifting educational
expenditures in favo: 't primary education; (c) strengthening literacy
programs and other n- Formal education programs; (d) rehabilitating
existing infrastruct    .ather than constructing new facilities; (e)
increasing recurr.-   .4',et allocations for learning inputs; (f)
extending  user c}.  .- xr' education especially at the higher levels;
and (g) encouraging pl .ra ism in the provision of education.
IDA Response
2.12       With the recent resumption of World Bank lending to Zambia,
it is proposed that the IDA contribution to the education sector consist
of support for both immediate, emergency activities and longer term
structural revisions. In the short term, IDA support to education will
flow through the MPU to simple, community-based sub-projects serving
education. Such activities will help rebuild the tradition of self-
help. The community initiatives will serve as pilot activities that
will help to forge and strengthen links between the Government
ministries responsible for education and communities taking the
initiative to improve their education. In the longer term, the
Government has asked IDA's assistance in developing a policy-based
credit that will address structural and policy issues such as those
mentioned above. The investment package included in such a possible
future project will benefit from insight provided by the community-based
projects that this Project proposes to finance.
B. Health
2.13       Health services are barely functioning.  Lack of adequate
supplies and maintenance have severely reduced the effectiveness of the
health system. While health problems are worsening, motivation among
health workers is deteriorating mainly due to poor working conditions
and insufficient pay. Childhood diseases are rampant and there are
periodic epidemics of cholera and other water-borne diseases.
Currently, about 40 percent of the population has access to safe water
and about 30 percent to adequate sanitation. These average figures mask
the much lower sanitation conditions in rural areas and small townships.
In a sample survey of diarrheal illnesses in 1986, 45 percent of
households reported a case of diarrhea in the last two weeks.



- 9 -
2.14       Epidemic diseases are another crucial factor in Zambia's
health situation. A major concern is the rising number of cases of
AIDS, its attendant complications such as tuberculosis, and its
debilitating general social and economic impact. HIV sero-positive
cases presently account for about 30 percent of admissions to medical
wards and over 40 percent of the cases seen at the University Teaching
Hospital (UTH). Malaria appears to be on the increase as other diseases
have been targeted for treatment and prevention. There is room for
optimism in some areas as the Ministry of Health (MOH) reports an
increasing coverage in immunizations and the disappearance of tetanus.
2.15       The MOH has responsibility for coordinating health sector
activities. Unfortunately, it is over-burdened and over-centralized.
Duplication of responsibilities in its senior ranks and loss of junior
staff aggravate these problems. As a result, its planning, budgeting,
and disbursement activities are often weak. Private and parastatal
institutions, particularly the state mining company, are involved in
providing health services. A series of NGOs provide health services,
the principal one being the Church Medical Association of Zambia, which
handles about 50 percent of rural primary health care. Private medical
practice is limited to large urban centers such as Lusaka, Kitwe, and
Ndola.
Government Strategy
2.16       In 1987, one quarter of Zambia's health expenditures was
financed by donors, although that figure has decreased since then. The
donors involved include the Governments of Sweden, the Netherlands,
Norway, United Kingdom, Ireland, Japan, USA and Finland, and the
multilateral agencies involved are the EC, WHO, UNICEF, UNFPA, and UNDP.
With so many donors active in the sector, the Government needs to play a
more decisive role in coordinating their efforts. This effort has begun
under the aegis of the SAP where donors have appointed a lead agency to
work with the Government in the WG for health.
2.17       Some health sector problems are linked to the lack of a
carefully designed and implemented health policy. Such a policy will
define the exact roles, responsibilities and resource needs for each
step in the referral chain. It will thereby set priorities for
investment and other expenditures. A comprehensive policy should
addrese the activities of parastatal and private companies, churches,
NGOs and private practitioners, to ensure that all health institutions
act in concert with one another. One hindrance to forming this policy
is the lack of up-to-date, reliable epidemiological and statistical
information: neither has been updated since 1986. Such policy
formulation is under discussion with the Government.
2.18       In the recent budget, the Government decreased the recurrent
departmental budget for health by 20 percent in real terms and increased
capital expenditures by 82 percent compared to the 1990 budget. A
reversal of the trend in recurrent expenditures is a dated covenant
under the Project (para. 6.1(e)). To help finance health services, the
Government has stated its intention to institute user fees. It
introduced fees for non-essential services in 1988, and fees for



- 10 -
registration, expatriates, government hospitals, and 20 percent of UTH
beds in 1989. The introduction of user fees is a key feature of the
Government strategy as laid out in its Policy Framework Paper.
IDA Response
2.19       IDA's contribution to the health sector will consist of
support for both immediate, emergency activities and longer-term
structural changes. In the short-term, IDA will support health
activities through the MPU, financing simple, community-based sub-
projects. The community initiatives will serve as pilot activities that
will help to improve the links between the national, regional and local
governments; NGOs; and communities.  In the longer-term, the Covernment
and IDA will develop a policy-based project that will address the
underlying structural and policy issues in a sector-wide investment
package. Such a project will benefit from insights gained under this
Project.
C. Nutrition and Food Security
2.20       Many Zambians, particularly women and small children, suffer
from food insecurity resulting in high levels of chronic and acute
malnutrition. In 1970-71, 38 percent of rural children 0-6 years of age
were stunted.6 From data collected in a 1990 household survey, it
appears that rates of stunting or chronic malnutrition have increased to
54 percent in rural children 6 to 60 months of age. These rates are
nearly twice those of neighboring countries like Namibia (rural),
Lesotho, Zimbabwe, and Rwanda. Illustrating widespread short-term
malnutrition, the 1990 household survey found that 7.3 percent of
children 6 to 60 months were below the reference mean for weight for
height.'  Protein-energy malnutrition is also probably high in women
of reproductive age.
2.21       National prevalence rates for micronutrient deficiencies are
not well-documented for the country, but deficiencies in iron, iodine,
and vitamin A are likely. A study in Ndola found that 34 percent of
pregnant women had anemia caused by iron deficiency and malaria.
Pockets of goiter exist, and a recent survey of school children in
Southern Province revealed high rates of goiter. Vitamin A deficiency
also exists. It seems to be particularly high in the northern parts
where it peaks in children at age three and a half years.
2.22       Causes.  There are many reasons for food insecurity and high
rates of malnutrition in Zambia. The inability of households to access
income is one cause; this may be because of poor economic growth,
inadequate employment opportunities, low worker productivity and low
More than two standard deviations below the median height for age
of the National Center for Health Statistics reference population
Z/    Below 85Z of the mcdian of the National Center for Health
Statistics reference population.



- 11 -
average wages. However, inequitable intra-household allocation of food,
poor feeding practices, and food taboos also contribute to food
insecurity and malnutrition. Thus, it is possible for household incomes
to increase and household food supplies to be sufficient while
malnutrition exists.
2.23       Seasonal changes and geographical differences also intensify
food insecurity. As a result, malnutrition can double between November
and February during the land preparation/planting period prior to
harvest. The country's emphasis on maize has decreased crop diversity
and accentuated seasonality. The production of root crops such as
cassava, sweet potatoes and yams, which can be harvested during the
hungry season in January and February, has declined. In additior, post-
harvest losses are high (estimated at 30-40 percent), discouraging on-
farm storage to protect families during seasonal shortages. Great
distances and poor transportation infrastructure also limit access to
food and contribute to malnutrition. Northern, Luapula, Eastern and
Western Provinces are most at risk for chronic malnutrition. Transport
constraints in some areas, especially those far from the "line of rail,"
and inadequate food marketing systems adversely affect food availability
in local communities. Food insecurity and malnutrition may also be
caused by increased food needs during episodes of disease due to poor
sanitation facilities and practices. Improving the nutritional status
of families will, therefore, depend on an improved water and sanitation
situation.
Government Strategy
2.24       The Government's response to food insecurity and malnutrition
has resulted in many policies and programs. The Government has
traditionally addressed food security by focusing on the sufficiency of
food production--principally of maize--at the national level.
Therefore, the cornerstones of Zambia's food security strategy have been
maximizing maize production (by subsidizing inputs and increasing maize
producer prices around the country), maintaining large carry-over stocks
to smooth inter-year production variations, and establishing the maize
transfer scheme for the urban poor. More than 50 percent of the
country's population now live in urban areas. Thus, rather than
producing their own food, nearly 4 million people are members of
households that must earn enough income to buy food in official or
unofficial markets or must be provided food through transfer mechanisms.
Urban people receive transfers in the form of food stamps or coupons,
food-for-work or direct distribution.
2.25       Because of spiraling food costs, the lack of jobs and the
size of the urban poor population, a major government food transfer
scheme has existed for many years. It is now estimated to serve 2.5-3.0
million people by providing free rations of maize meal to urban
households with monthly incomes of less than K20,500. This ration is
presently estimated to cover about one-quarter of the household's
monthly caloric requirement. While good data are lacking, based on
informal surveys it appears that many urban families must subsist for
many days of the month on one meal per day, even when the transfer
scheme is considered. This meal, typically consisting largely of maize



- 12 -
porridge, supplies significantly less than the needs estimated by the
WHO for a physically active adult in the tropics. Further, even this
minimal level of support is in danger, for though the food supplied in
the households under the maize subsidy scheme covers only about one-
quarter of caloric requirements, it is still enormously costly. The
Government clearly does not have the financial resources to sustain an
urban safety-net program of this magnitude over the long-term.
2.26       Although Zambia has been an active participant in regional
food security discussions within the Southern Africa Development
Coordination Conference framework, other Government activities in food
security and nutrition suffer from lack of coordination, excessive
research orientation, and under-financing. Public institutions includes
the National Food and Nutrition Commission, a parastatal under the MOH;
the Nutrition Unit in the MOH; the Home Economics Extension Service and
Early Warning and Crop Forecasting Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture.
Of these, only the Home Economics Extension Servi( has developed a
community-based operational network to address household food security
and nutritional needs; the others have remained tied to primarily data-
gathering and research activities.
2.27       Several donors and NGOs are involved in food security and
nutrition work. Food and Agriculture Organization-assisted work is now
attempting to look at all that is being done in the relevant sectors to
address food security problems. Sweden and UNICEF have been major
donors for nutrition activities in the country. UNDP is planning a
major community-based nutrition effort to be implemented by the
Government and executed by an NGO. NGOs conduct various food security
and nutrition-related activities such as promoting small gardens, food
processing and preservation, cooking classes, teaching women how to feed
their children and establishing daycare centers for working mothers.
Several NGOs have been created to address malnutrition specifically, but
little has been done to systematically assess program effectiveness of
this and other NGO work.
IDA Response
2.28       The first focus of IDA will be to help households and
communities improve their food security and nutrition situation. This
will be done through the MPU's funding of community-based activities.
Such activities will include the rehabilitation of water and sanitation
systems, feeder roads, market places; and support for nutrition
training. This also will give the country programmatic experience that
should be analyzed and assessed. Long-term strategies in nutrition need
to be anticipated and prepared for while the MPU is operating if
momentum from these activities is to be sustained. It is anticipated
that long-term strategies will involve in-titution-building to help the
Government and NGOs make the transition from collecting information to
developing, implementing, monitoring, and evaluating community-based
programs in food security and nutrition and setting nutrition policy
based on operational experience. During this period, the National Food
and Nutrition Commission, the Home Economics Extension Service, and the
Nutrition Unit in MOH should identify the training needed to carry out
these functions in the longer term. Based on their performance during



- 13 -
this phase, the Government will have a better idea of whether these
agencies need to be strengthened to meet the common goal of improving
and lowering malnutrition rates in the country.
D.   Donor ai'd World Bank Experience
EC's Microprojects Programme
2.29       For the past four years, the EC has financed a Microprojects
Programme administered by the MPU in the MOF. Reporting to the
Permanent Secretary for Economic Cooperation, the MPU evaluates and
funds small projects that communities propose and implement.
Particularly in the last two years, the MPU has successfully supported
community initiatives that meet the poor's urgent needs.
2.30       The MPU operates a system to support small, simple projects
that local communities and NGOs design and implement. In the most recent
project approval cycle, the MPU received approximately 1,000 requests
for funding of which it judged about 300 technically viable. The MPU
approved funding for 175 microprojects distributed across all provinces
with average MPU disbursements per project of US$30,000. Over a hundred
different community groups and 21 NGOs81 are currently involved in the
program. It is now disbursing a total of US$5.5 million in an 18 month
period.
2.31       Launching the program's current phase, the MPU organized a
promotion campaign aimed at encouraging communities to submit ideas to
be funded. The MPU presented the program to parliament, district and
provincial councils, international technical assistance programs, and
networks of NGOs, volunteer services, and church missions. The program
is demand driven. Local groups, which organize themselves into Project
Committees (PCs), prepare a brief proposal describing how they will
spend potential funding from the MPU. The PC is responsible for
microproject implementation and must have a legal status sufficient to
open a bank account in its name. Under the existing program, most of
the groups involved in the program are local Parent Teacher
Associations, NGOs, and church mission groups.
2.32       District Councils (DCs) and Provincial Planning Units (PPUs)
review proposals to insure that the proposed microprojects will be in
line with district and provincial priorities, will not duplicate
existing activities, and will not entail unsustainable recurrent costs.
Based on project quality, sectoral priorities, and ease of supervision,
the MPU puts together a package of microprojects. It presents this
package to the Microprojects Programme Steering Committee, which is
chaired by the Permanent Secretary for Economic Cooperation in MOF and
which consists of representatives from the MOH, MGEYS, the National
Commission for Developmnent Planning, and the EC Delegate. In 1990, the
The NGOs involved include both local institutions and local
branches of international NGOs. A majority of the NGOs have a
religious affiliation.



- 14 -
committee approved most of the microprojects (approximately 150) at one
meeting in June, so that it will complement the Government budget cycle.
A supplementary package was prepared and approved in September.
2.33       Once projects have been approved, the MPU disburses funds
directly to accounts that PCs have created exclusively for their
microproject. The PCs then use these funds to purchase needed
materials, the vast majority of which are local items such as cement,
windows and doors. The MPU has established an innovative procurement
process to obtain lower prices for widely-used materials. It has a
contract for a large number of roofing sheets with a Zambian company
that distributes throughout the country. To those microprojects needing
roofing sheets, the MPU allocates vouchers that the PCs bring to local
suppliers in exchange for roofing sheets.
2.34       PCs prepare monthly progress reports for the MPU.  Once they
have used up the initial 25 percent of project costs disbursed to their
accounts, they must submit detailed financial justifications to receive
further disbursements. Whenever possible, MPU staff visit project sites
to verify implementation. Although current staff resources do not allow
the MPU to make many site visits, those they have visited generally show
good progress and effective resource use.
2.35       Lessons Learned.  Given very limited staff--it employs three
professionals--the MPU has been remarkably successful in supporting
small-scale community initiatives. A mid-term review that the EC
conducted in October 1990 was positive, although it did suggest some
changes to make the program more effective. Namely, it recommended that
the MPU:
(a)  use more refined eva'.uation criteria, particularly when
evaluating more complex projects;
(b) install a computer-based accounting system to help justity
the PCs' use of funds more carefully before disbursing
additional funds; and
(c) improve procurement procedures to allow for more large supply
contracts similar to that used for roofing sheets.
Besides these EC recommendations, IDA's assessment is that the MPU will
benefit from additional staff enabling it to visit communities more
frequently during microproject identification, appraisal, and
implementation. Given the current limited staff at the MPU, it has been
possible for staff to make supervision site visits only once during
implementation. Frequently this one site visit had to be assigned to
staff from PPUs or NGOs in the area. The MPU has also not had an
opportunity to monitor closely the impact of its projects.
Bank Group Experience and Lessons Learned
2.36       Social projects in Zambia.  The Bank Group has financed five
projects in education. The first health project was under preparation
in 1987 when the relationship between Zambia and the Bank broke down.



- 15 -
The early education projects (in the 1970s) focussed on higher and
middle level manpower training. Later, the focus was on adult education
and training for health and agriculture. The fifth project was to have
financed eight junior secondary schools and a maintenance program. This
project was suspended along with other projects in 1987, and
subsequently closed in 1988. Since the projects were conceived while
copper prices were high, the standards followed for the infrastructure
is high cost; for instance, a recent estimate for the completion of one
school (45 percent completed) is US$5 million.
2.37       Similar proiects from other countries.  In terms of the
social dimensions of adjustment, several Project Completion Reports and
Project Performance Audit Reports for adjustment lending discuss this
topic. The consensus of the Reports is that the Bank ought to establish
a presence in the social areas quickly to show our concern for social
development and poverty alleviation during a structural adjustment
program.   This realization has encouraged several projects intended to
help the poor while the adjustment process takes place. Several of
these projects have taken the route of funding small-scale community-
based sub-projects. The only such project for which an audit report
exists is the Emergency Social Fund Project in Bolivia.9/ The
assessment is positive, specifying the conditions that led to this
success. Lessons learned, which have influenced the preparation of this
Project, include: (a) the desirability of financing small,
technologically simple projects with a substantial community
involvement; (b) the involvement of both government agencies and NGOs in
sub-project implementation; (c) the need to attract high caliber staff;
and (d) the need to protect the program as far as possible from
political interference. Key staff involved in the Bolivian project from
both IDA and Bolivia have been involved in the preparation of this
project, and reviewers have included staff with experience from similar
projects.
2.38       Africa-wide Bank experience.  The 1990 Annual Review of
Implementation and Supervision generated several key recommendations for
implementation of projects in the Africa Region. It recommended that
projects: (a) be simple in design and fund technologically simple
infrastructure; (b) use an existing unit within the Government structure
for implementation; and (c) encourage a participatory process. These
recommendations have been considered in the design of this Project.
v     Bolivia Emergency Social Fund Project (Credit No. 1829-BO),
Project Performance Audit Report (Report no. 8449), March 20, 1990



- 16 -
III. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Objectives and Summary Description
3.1         The main objective of the Project will be to finance
community initiatives to help protect the poor during the structural
adjustment program. To this end the Project will support the rehabil-
itation and improvement of existing infrastructure and service delivery
through the MPU. Through involvement of communities in the planning,
design and implementation of sub-projects, the Project will strengthen
communities and rekindle the spirit of self-help. Furthermore, the sub-
projects will serve as pilot prujects allowing the Government, donors,
NGOs and communities to test which interventions are most effective and
equitable. The Project's Analysis and Monitoring Component will improve
the information base and provide analyses to enhance the Government's
planning and policy making in the social sectors.
3.2         The Project will support the MPU, which will fund a series
of community initiatives on a grant basis. Sub-projects Rupported by
the MPU will be small, simp'^ and locally-generated and will cover a
variety of sectors including health, nutrition, education and economic
infrastructure. To ensure the sub-projects' sustainability and
community involvement, communities will be required to contribute to
sub-project cost with labor, materials or cash. The sub-projects are
expected to average around US$40,000 each (including community
contributions). The maximum contribution from the MPU to any one sub-
project is US$400,000 (equivalent to about US$520,000 total sub-project
cost).
3.3         The Project will be administered by the existing MPU in the
MOF. The MPU presently administers the EC's Microprojects Programme
(para. 2.29). The EC-funded microprojects and the sub-projects financed
under this project will be administered using the same procedures by the
jointly financed unit. The proposed Project will approximately double
the size of the present program. The Project will support the necessary
expansion of the MPU through institutional strengthening.
3.4         Through funding and monitoring of sub-projects, the Project
will generate information about existing social services in disparate
communities and about the effectiveness and equity of various
interventions. To analyze this experience and monitor progress under
the Project and the SAP, support will be provided for a Monitoring and
Analysis Component. This component, funded by the Government of Norway,
will finance: (a) national statistical surveys; (b) a beneficiary
assessment; and (c) a study fund, which will finance a series of small
studies related to poverty, the SAP and the adjustment program.
B. Detailed ProJect Description
The Community Initiatives Component
3.5         Sub-Project Parameters and Sectoral Distribution.  Sub-
projects approved for funding by the MPU will be consistent with the
Government's strategy as stated in the SAP. The Project will only
support sub-projects that are small, simple and locally-generated. The



- 17 -
sub-projects should meet some urgent need, and local PCs should be able
to complete the sub-projects quickly, effectively and efficiently.
3.6         All sub-projects must have the following characteristics:
(a)   include a substantial community contribution;
(b)   be simple enough to be implemented without significant
technical assistance from outside the community; and
(c)   serve beneficiaries that are be poor or belong to vulnerable
groups.
3.7         The MPU will establish general programming guidelines by
sector and by urban and rural areas. The goal will be to distribute
sub-project funds about equally between urban and rural areas. The
distribution of IDA funds among sectors will be as in Figure 3.1. These
targets are indicative and will be monitored continuously. The MPU will
make adjustments in its outreach activities or in its funding targets as
the operations develop. For comparison, Figure 3.1 also shows the dis-
tribution under the present EC funding."
Figure 3.1: Distribution of Funds
Distribution   of   Funds
IDA  Funds  and  EC  1990-91  Program
55%                             38%
XHeaithl and Nutrition
-    25%                51%                 3Economic Intrastruc.
IDA Funds           EC 1990-91
NOTE: Health Includes water and siknitatlon
3.8         Within health and nutrition the MPU will finance:  ta)
expansion, repair and a few new constructions of health posts, childcare
centers and shelters; (b) community child care programs; (c) assistance
in food production; (d) development of weaning foods; and (e) specific
supplemental feeding schemes. As water-borne diseases are becoming
increasingly serious and are threatening the health and nutrition status
of households in Zambia, the Project will also support simple water
supply and sanitation schemes, especially in peri-urban areas. Such
Annex II contains a list of EC-funded microprojects in the 1990-91
Microprojects Programme cycle.



- 18 -
sub-orojects could include tandpipes, shallow wells, boreholes,
drainage ditches, and pit latrines.
3.9         Within education and training the SRF will fund:  (a)
rehabilitation and expansion of primary and secondary schools; and (b)
training in skills development. Economic infrastructure and production
support is a broad category that includes upgrading and rehabilitation
of: (a) feeder roads; (b) drainage works; (c) small irrigation schemes;
and (d) market places. This category also includes support for existing
NGO credit schemes.
3.10        On a case-by-case basis the SRF could fund consumable items
such as supplies or materials for renovated health posts and schools.
Such financing will be an extra incentive for successful and timely
completion of the construction phase of specific sub-projects.
3.11        For the purpose of screening, sub-project categories are
assigned a priority from one (highest priority) to foux (lowest
priority). Based on this priority, sub-project proposals will be
selected for appraisal (para. 3.16). Within each sub-project category
the highest priority will be given to projects that benefit women and
small children. The sub-projects with highest priority are:
-     rer,abilitation of health centers;
-     rehabilitation of childcare centers or shelters;
-     preventive health and nutrition programs;
-     equipment and inputs for rehabilitated health centers;
-     health and nutritional training;
-     community vegetable gardens;
-     rehabilitation of water supply systems;
-     expansion of water supply systems;
-     latrines and other simple sanitation;
-     rehabilitation of primary schools;
-     expansion of primary schools;
-     furniture and materials for rehabilitated primary
schools; and
-     skills development training.
Annex III gives the complete list of the priority ranking of sub-project
types.
Development and Approval of Sub-projects
3.12        The MPU will follow a project cycle based on the experience
of its management of the EC's Microprojects Programme (para. 2.29).
This cycle has the advantage of working through the budget process of
the DCs and the PPUs without having the sub-projects delayed at either
level. Both the Government and the EC view coordination with local
governments as essential, and the MPU will continue this in order to
support the Governmpnt's efforts in decentralization.
3.13        The first step in the project cycle will be outreach
activities to introduce the program to the communities of Zambi6. MPU
staff will hold workshops in each province inviting representatives from



- 19 -
the DCs, PPUs, and NGOs to participate. These workshops will explain
the purposo of the MPU and its procedures, as well as train the
community representatives in how to work with their communities to
identify priorities and complete the sub-project request form. Cu'treach
activities will be targeted to areas and sectors from which few or poor-
quality proposals are forthcoming.
3.14        The communities must establish a PC that will be responsible
for implementiing the sub-project. These committees frequently are drawn
from existing women's groups or Parent-Teacher Associations. When the
communities are ready to submit sub-projects, they will initiate the
project cycle by sending a completed sub-project request form to the DC.
The request form (Annex IV) includes information on the beneficiaries, a
description of the sub-project and its costs. The DC will then clear
the sub-project proposal, indicating its consistency with district
plans, and send it on to the PPU. The PPU will also indicate whether
the proposal is consistent with the province's priorities. The PPU must
also give a letter of commitment for any facilities requiring staffing,
as the PPU manage the budget for recurrent costs in primary health and
education. The MPU has not experienced any delays in this process since
the DCs and the PPUs meet every quarter and come under significant
pressure from their communities if they hold up the sub-projects.
3.15        The cleared sub-projects will be sent from the PPUs to the
MPU for evaluation. At each review (by DCs and PPUs) a copy of the
request will also be submitted to the MPU, enabling the MPU to monitor
the review process. NGOs submitting sub-projects will not have to go
through the DCs and PPUs formally. Nonetheless, they must get a letter
from the PPU stating that the sub-project is consistent with provincial
plans and that any extra staff that the NGOs' sub-project required will
be made available. Once they have this, the NGOs will send their sub-
project proposals directly to the MPU.
3.16        The MPU is likely to continue receiving more sub-projects
than it can properly appraise, making a system for establishing
priorities essential. Projects received by the MPU will be registered
by a code that will allow them to be sorted according to well-defined
criteria (Annex III).
3.17        First, sub-project proposals will be divided into economic
infrastructure and others. After sorting by type of project, the sub-
projects with the highest priorities will be examined by province in
order to provide the MPU with an overview of -ts activities in each part
if the country. Among the projects with equal priority in any given
province, those that assist young children and pregnant or lactating
mothers will be given the highest priority.2'
a'    The coding will also allow the projects to be sorted by type of
sponsoring agency, whether it is an NGO or a Community. This will
be used for monitoring and not for establishing funding
priorities.



- 20 -
3.18        MPU staff will then fully appraise as many of these sub-
projects as possible (for example, the MPU received 1000 sub-projects in
its last cycle and appraised about 200, approving 175). The MPU will
begin by evaluating those assigned the highest priority following the
procedure described above.   The MPU will appraise sub-projects by
sending a staff member for a site visit. The staff member will be
responsible for gathering any information not included in the request
form regarding the sub-project's impact and costs. He or she will also
assess the implementation capacity of the executing agency. An
appraisal form will be completed (available in project files), which, if
MPU staff clear the sub-project, will be the format in which it is
presented to the Steering Committee.
3.19        The Steering Committee for the Project will meet every
quarter to review sub-project proposals. This Committee will consist of
the Project Coordinator and Deputy Coordinator, the Permanent Secretary
for Economic Cooperation in the MOF, the Director of Regional Planning
from the National Commission for Development Planning, representatives
from the planning units of the MOH and MGEYS, and an NGO representative
appointed by the NGO Forum. The EC Delegate and the World Bank Resident
Representative will be non-voting members of the Board. For sub-projects
that are approved, a contract will be signed between the PC (or NGO) and
the MPU. Approved sub-projects will be sent to the SAP Coordinator for
information.
3.20        Whenever possible the MPU will hold a sub-project laun~ch
workshop in the community to teach the PC to keep the accounts of the
sub-project and inform it about its other responsibilities in
implementing the sub-project. Afte the sub-project contract is signed,
an initial mobilization grant of ba(ut 20Z of MPU contribution to the
sub-project will be paid into an &c ount established by the PC. Such
advances will be of an average size of about US$6,000. Later payments
to the PC will be made based on work completed or goods and services
purchased. Each disbursement request must be countersigned by the MPU
staff member supervising the sub-pro('ect and the relevant DC. Such
subsequent disbursements to the PC  2.1 be for less than the money spent
to take the mobilization grant into v,'count. On average, MPU will make
three supervision visits per sub-prcjec,t. Six months after sub-project
completion, a follow-up visit will be wade to assess the impact of the
sub-project.
3.21        Extensive use will be made of beneficiary assessments in the
monitoring of SRF sub-projects (Annex V). This methodology will be used
to assess communities' needs and interests before the sub-projects
begin, during implementation and following completion. This monitoring
will provide an operationally useful feedback to the MPU. Through
beneficiary assessment, the MPU could gauge which sub-projecL4 are most
effective in serving the needs of poor and vulnerable groups.
Furthermore, specific studies and the results of the planned national
surveys (sec next section) will help assess the impact of the Project.



- 21 -
The Institutional Support Component
3.22        The MPU will be given institutional in the form of financing
long-term consultants to enlarge the MPU's staff, support to open a
field office, and purchase of equipment and vehicles. To ensure proper
project implementation, the Government will appoint and retain HPU staff
with qualifications acceptable lo IDA and the EC throughout the project
period.
3.23        IDA proposes to fund one international, long-term consultant
as deputy project coordinator, three local consultants, and three
support staff (Annex I for details). The local consultants will be a
project accountant, an engineer or architect to assist in appraisal and
supervision of more complex civil works sub-projects, and one regional
representative. The regional office will be opened in Northern Province
with its own vehicle, office space and other logistic support. The
regional representative will be most heavily involved in outreach and
supervision activities. If the need arose and the experience in
Northern Province were successful, IDA will consider funding more
regional offices.
The Analysis and Monitoring Component
3.24        The Analysis and Monitoring Component has two sub-
components: (a) a survey sub-component assisting the Central Statistical
Office (CSO) in the collection of social statistics, and (b) a studies
sub-component financing analyses and studies related to the SAP and
poverty in general. The studies will provide analyses of the data
generated under the survey sub-component.
3.25        The Survey Sub-componc-nt.  This sub-component will support
the Government's efforts to gather information on social conditions. By
gathering baseline and monitoring data, it will help identify the poor,
their location, and how they are being affected by Government policies.
Community level information will establish the link between the general
analysis and monitoring, including the beneficiary assessment. The
surveys will also provide information on general social conditions such
as the status of health, education and food security.
3.26        The Sub-component will support a data-user/data-producer
committee on social statistics. This cormittee will ensure coordination
among the various institutions that play a role in either generating or
using survey data.3/   The committee will be chaired by a data-user
while the CSO will serve as the secretariat. It is assumed that the
tasks of the committee will be integrated into the Social Statistical
Sub-committee (SSS) of the soon-to-be established National Statistical
Committee.
Such as the CSO, the National Commission for Development Planning,
the research community and donors.



- 22 -
3.27        Through guidance from the SSS and with support from the
Survey Sub-component, the CSO will carry out a survey program to collect
necessary social statistics at household and community levels. The
survey program will support one survey each year for a total of four
years. Subject to modifications by the SSS, the survey program will be
comprised of the following activitiess
(a)   The 1991 Priority Survey (PS).  The PS is a multi-sector
indicator survey that will use an extensive, nationwide
sample in urban and rural areas. The 1991 PS will provide
policy makers with rapid, multi-sectoral information on the
status of each major socio-economic group. Second, it will
provide information for the design and targeting of the SAP
and the SRF. The CSO will conduct the survey in July -
August, 1991 on a sample of approximately 9,000 households.
It will release a tabulation report by December 1991.
(b)   The 1992 PS Module in the Agricultural Census.  The
information collected in 1991 will be repeated in rural
areas in 1992, allowing for monitoring of the development
across time. To save resources, the PS will be included as
a module of the Agricultural Census. It is envisaged that
the PS module will be carried out in June-July 1992, between
the Pre-Harvest and the Post-Harvest questionnaire of the
Agricultural Census and during the same season that the
previous year's information was collected. This combination
of a PS and an Agricultural Census will also yield a unique
set of information about the gender specific impact of
agricultural farming systems. crop patterns, etc., on
household food security or nutrition. Although the sample
will only include farming households, it will be larger than
that of the previous year's survey, allowing analysis of
smaller socio-economic groups.
3.28        After 1992 the detailed programming depends on the decisions
of the SSS. The tentative program is as followq:
(a)   The 1993 Household Survey.  The Government's current
priority is to collect household budget and PS-type
information.
(b)   The 1994 PS.  In 1994 support will be given for another PS,
either as a self-standing survey or as a module.
3.29        The need for community level information both for
statistical monitoring and analysis as well as to provide information
for the community development programs to be financed under the Project
is recognized. Due to time constraint, it will be difficult to include
a community module in the 1991 PS, but it will be included as a
component of the 1991/92 Agricultural Census and will be considered for
social statistical surveys to come.
3.30        Support to CSO will include: (a) technical assistance based
on a twinning arrangement between an external statistical institution



- 23 -
and CSO; (b) salaries for temporary staff; (c) per diems for field work;
(d) equipment and supplies (including vehicles and computers with
printers); and (e) training (Annex VI contains detailed cost estimates).
3.31        The Studies Sub-component.  This sub-component will support
(a) studies in five already-identified priority areas, (b) a study fund
for small and medium size studies, and (c) in-country training in
computer familiarization and basic tabulation.
3.32        The five priority studies identified are:
(a)   Beneficiary Assessment, which will use qualitative methods
to understand the needs of communities imaplementing micro-
projects supported by the MPU (para. 3.21 and Annex V).
(b)   Poverty Analysis, which will provide information for
targeting SAP activities. This work will use the data
generated in the first PS. Future PS modules will allow for
continued poverty monitoring.
(c)   Price Mechanism Study, which will identify the magnitude and
causes of price differences and the impact of these on poor
and vulnerable groups. USAID has given financial support to
the first phase of PIC's household expenditure survey and
envisages further support. However, there is room for
further data collection, descriptive and analytical work.
(d)   Household Food Security Under Structural Adjustmeint, which
will link agricultural production, time constraints,
purchasing power, auto-consumption, and health and
nutritional standard. The National Food and Nutrition
Commission has experience in data collection and statistical
analysis on the impact of policy changes on nutritional
standards. UNDP and UNICEF are already supporting
activities in this area.
(e)   Vulnerability of Women under Structural adjustment, which
will focus on the gender specific economic and social impact
of economic crisis and adjustment, recommending specific
interventions to alleviate any negative effects. Several
activities are on-going supported by donors such as Norway
and Canada.
3.33        The Study Fund.  The main objective of the Study Fund is to
support a broad range of local studies on poverty, the economic and
social impact of economic crisis and adjustment, and the efficiency and
equity of activities designed to ease the transition. To fulfill this
objective, it has been agreed to facilitate a process where by Zambian
policy-making institutions and the research community collaborate to
ensure quality, policy-relevant studies.
3.34        The studies will be undertaken by research and other
institutions within the country. The studies may require some limited
field work to collect the necessary information but should be based as



- 24 -
far as possible on the utilization of data that are already available.
For instance, the Study Fund could support tabulation and analysis of
the large amounts of information available in the MOH and the MGEYS.
Other possible activities will be studies of the impact of interventions
or policy undertakings. For instance, several NGOs have shown an
interest in studying the impact of different types of social service
delivery, and an organization of small businesses will like to study the
impact of the recent liberalization measures on its members. Studies
will take not more than six months and have a total cost of less than
US$15,000 per study. They will be applied rather than theoretical in
nature and will provide: (a) information on the inter-relationships that
exist between the various socio-economic factors; (b) information for
implementing, monitoring or evaluating particular programs; or (c) the
necessary input to initiate new programs.
3.35          The selection of these studies will be undertaken by a
special committee for which the MPU will be the secretariat. Other
members of the committee will be individuals from the social research
community. After initial screening by the secretariat, study proposals
will be commissioned to two qualified reviewers, who will provide the
committee with written comments. As assured funding is limited for this
sub-component, the selection committee will also function as a clearing-
house and present screened study proposals to other donors for funding.
Studies could use data that the Survey Program generates. An analysis
file will be produced as a regular output from each survey. Any
research institution will be given access to anonymous data files within
a reasonable time upon release of the tabulation reports from CSO.
Workshops to initiate and support further analysis of the survey data by
line-ministries and the research community will be provided for.
3.36        Training.  Some training is needed to ensure that the
analytical power of available micro-computers and data are taken
advantage of, if only through simple tabulation. Thus, this
sub-component will support a course in basic computer familiarization
and basic statistical tabulation every year. The first course will be
offered in early 1992. The main target group will be planners in
central planning institutions and line ministries, but the research
community will also have access to this training.



- 25 -
IV. COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT
A.  Project Cost
4.1         The total cost of the Project is US$46.4 million.  The three
main components are: (a) Community Initiatives, (b) Institutional
Support, and (c) Analysis and Monitoring (Table 4.1). Most of this
amount (US$41.2 million or 88.8 percent of total project costs) will
support sub-projects. The sub-projects allocation includes the IDA
contribution to sub-projects, expected contributions from the EC's
Microprojects Programme and community contributions. The MPU expects to
commit and disburse about US$6.4 million per year to sub-projects over
the next five years. Both the IDA Credit and the EC Micro-projects
Programme will provide institutional support to the MPU in MOF (para
3.22). Details of institutional support are provided in Annex I. The
Analysis and Monitoring allocation indicates the cost of the full
program of studies as described in para 30. Price and physical
contingencies are calculated only for costs of Institutional Support and
Analysis and Monitoring. The number of sub-projects will be adjusted to
correspond to available financing.
Table 4.1: Summary Project Costs
(in million US$)              Z       X of
Local   Foreign   Total    Foreign   Total
Community Initiatives        39.6     1.6      41.2         3.9?   88.8Z
Institutional Support         1.1     1.6       2.7       59.2Z    5.7Z
Analysis and Monitoring       1.1     0.8       1.9        41.9Z    4.2Z
Total Base Costs             41.8     4.0      45.8         8.7?   98.7?
Price Contingencies           0.1     0.1       0.2       54.5?    0.6?
Physical Contingencies        0.2     0.2       0.4       48.3Z    0.7Z
Total Project Cost           42.1     4.3      46.4         9.3?  100.OZ
B. Financing Plan
4.2         Sources of funding for the Project are shown in Table 4.2.
Zambia will support the Project through community contributions to sub-
projects.1' The IDA and EC contribution will be allocated to the sub-
projects and to strengthening the MPU. If in the future other donors'
financing were to become available for sub-projects, the number of sub-
projects will be adjusted accordingly. Because the dollar value of
The MOF will provide office space and supply utilities to the MPU.
These costs have not been included in these cost estimates.



- 26 -
prospective cofinanciers' contributions will change as exchange rates
change, adjustments will be made in the number of sub-projects to
reflect available financing.
Table 4.2: Protect Financing
(US$ million, including contingencies)
Zambia   IDA      EC    Norway   Total
Sub-project,               9.1   18.2   13.9         0      41.2
Institutional Support        0    1.8    1.1         0       2.9
Analysis and Monitoring      0       0      0      2.2       2.2
Total                      9.1   20.0   15.0       2.2      46.4
4.3         The Analysis and Monitoring program outlined above will have
a total cost of about US$4.6 million. The component from this project
is defined as that part of the program for which financing is assured.
Norway will cofinance the Project with about US$2.2 million equivalent.
This will cover the first two years of the program, leaving the last
three years' financing to be determined (Table 4.3). Sweden has
expressed an interest in cofinancing the program with an amount
sufficient to cover the rest of the Survey Sub-component. Denmark and
the United Kingdom have shown an interest in financing training and
studies. As such financing becomes available, the financing plan would
be adjusted in consultations among the Government, the cofinanciers, and
IDA.
C. Project Implementation
4.4         The implementation of the Project will be done by the
existing MPU in the MOF. which has successfully administered the EC's
Microprojects Programme in the past. IDA has appraised the MPU's
procedures and overall capacity and finds it acceptable with the
additional institutional support described in paragraph 3.22. A draft
sub-project appraisal guide has been prepared and agreed upon between
IDA, EC and the Government.  Preslentation of this appraisal guide in a
finalized form acceptable to IDA 2s a condition for effectiveness (para.
6.1).
Institutional Capacity
4.5         Successful implementation of the Project depends heavily on
the capacity of the institutions involved. Under the EC-funded program
it has been possible to impiement microprojects successfully, which
bodes well for this Project.



- 27 _
Table 4.3: Financing Plan for Analysis and Monitoring Program
(in Thousands US$)
Project
Total  Financed   To Be
Program Elements                Program  (Norway) Identified
Studies
Administrator                   162      162          -
Studies Fund                    600     600           -
Beneficiary Assessment          175     175           -
Short Term Consultants          216       -          216
Micro-Computers                  30                   30
Training                        190       -          190
Contingencies                   260      104         156
_____________________________
Sub-Total Studies               i,633   1,041           592
Statistics
International Personnel         702     281          421
Local Personnel                 792      317         475
Intnational. Training           230      92          138
Local Training                  195       78         117
Equipment                       261      104         157
Operations                      367      147         220
Contingencies                   477      191         286
Sub-Total Statistics            3,024   1,210        1,814
TOTAL                           4,657   2,250        2,406
4.6         DCs and PPUs are already receiving institutional support
from other dor.ors, and sub-project implementation has benefitted from
such strengthened units in the past. The CSO has received substantial
institutional support from, among others, the Food and Agriculture
Organization and the Government of the United Kingdom, and IDA is
satisfied that it will be able to implement the Studies Sub-component.
4.7         Additional steps will be taken under the Project to
strengthen the institutions involved. Community-level workshops will be
held before the implementation of sub-projects to train communities in
sub-project implementation. The cost of sub-projects could include site
visits by PC members to other MPU-sponsored projects so that successful
practices can be passed on. The Project will in itself strengthen
capacity as communities and DCs learn how to identify, plan and
implement good sub-projects. This rebuilding of the spirit of self-help
will be an important benefit of the Project. The MPU will be
strengthened as outlined in para. ?, to enable it to do the launch
workshop, more frequent supervision visits and an ex-post visit. The
Project is process-oriented so that specific strengthening needs that
emerge during implementation could be included in the project as agreed
between IDA and the Government.



- 28 -
Sustainability of the Sub-projects
4.8         Sustainability of the sub-projects will be ensured through
several venues:
(a)   a community's contribution to sub-projects will indicate its
involvement in the sub-project and thus increase its
interest in maintaining the sub-project;
(b)   the appraisal criteria include an assessment of the PCs'
ability to maintain and operate any facility repaired,
expanded or constructed;
(c)   for personnel requirements that the sub-project will
generate, the PPU will be required to state that any
additional personnel needed will be provided; and
(d)   at the macro-level the Government has agreed to ensure that
non-personnel recurrent budgets for health and education
increase every year (pare. 6.1(d)).
4.9         Monitoring Indicators.   In assessing the impact of the
Project during supervision, annual implementation reviews, the mid-
project review and following completion, the MPU will report, and IDA
will review, inter alia, the following indicators:
(a)   the number of health and education facilities improved,
rehabilitated and constructed;
(b)   the number of people trained in sub-projects that provide
training;
(c)   the number and gender distribution of beneficiaries of sub-
projects;
(d)   geographical distribution of sub-projects (after 1992
compared with poverty profiles developed based on the PS);
(e)   the share of administrative costs relative to sub-project
costs;
(f)   ex post economic or social impact of randomly selected sub-
projects (based on studies including beneficiary
assessment).
D. Procurement
4.10        As the exact mix of sub-projects to be financed is
undetermined at this point, the procurement schedules presented below
are estimates based on the EC-funded Microprojects Program. Most sub-
projects will be small in size: the EC-experience indicates MPU
financing averaging about US$30,000 per sub-project. PCs are
responsible for procurement for their sub-projects.



- 29 -
4.11        Items to be financed by IDA will be procured in accordance
with the Bank's 'Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits (May, 1985)." Where feasible from a logistic and financial
efficiency standpoint, civil works contracts will be combined to exceed
an estimated cost of US$250,000. Any civil works contract estimated at
a cost of US$250,000 or more will be procured using international
competitive bidding (ICB). Local contractors will be eligible for a
margin of preference of 7.5 percent for ICB. Local competitive bidding
(LCB) procedures will be used for any contract estimated to cost less
than US$250,000. As some sub-projects are located in very remote areas
it is likely to be necessary to employ prudent local shopping (ILS)
procedures acceptable to IDA. This procedure will be used for contracts
with an estimated cost of less than US$30,000.
4.12        For purchase of goods and services, ICB will be used for
contracts with an estimated cost of US$100,000 or more. The MPU will
assist communities in the purchase of materials in bulk and, where
feasible from a logistic and financial viewpoint, attempt to combine
contracts to make the estimated value US$100,000 or more. For goods
tenders under ICB, local suppliers will be eligible for a margin of
preference of 15 percent. LCB will be used for purchases estimated
between US$30,000 and US$100,000. ILS procedures acceptable to IDA will
be used for purchases estimated at less than US$30,000. All LCB
procurement will include local advertising, public bid opening, clarity
of evaluation criteria, and non-exclusion of foreign bidders.
4.13        The MPU will assist PCs in procurement matters on a case-by-
case basis. In the past, by purchasing in bulk and paying in foreign
currency, the MPU has been able to lower substantially the cost and
improve availability of such materials for the communities. IDA has
appraised the capacity of the MPU to assist in procurement matters and
found it satisfactory. Such procurement will follow the needs for
purchase of goods and services. For procurement purposes, sub-projects
can be divided into three categories: (a) civil works; (b) self-Uh1p;
and (c) social services. For civil works, the procurement procedures
outlined above will be used for self-help sub-projects where the
community implements the sub-project using their own labor; and for
social service delivery sub-projects implemented by NGO"s 2/ goods and
services will be purchased at a reasonable price. For goods, account
will be taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery,
efficiency, and reliability of goods. In the purchase of services,
factors such as quality and competence deliveries will be taken into
account.
4.14        Consultants' services to be financed by IDA will be procured
in accordance with "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and the World Bank as an Executing Agency."
2     Such as training programs, vaccination campaigns, literacy and
numeracy campaigns and nutrition surveillance.



- 30 -
Table 4.4: Procurement Arranaements
(US$Millions)
Project Element                    ICB    LCB Other/1 N.A.2/  Total
----------------------------------------------------------------__-
1. Sub-projects:
a. Goods for Sub-projects       1.5    3.3    -        -      4.8
(1.5)  (0.5)                 (2.0)
b. Civil Works for Large and    1.5   14.9    -        6.5   22.9
Other Sub-projects           (1.5) (10.7)   -       -    (12.2)
c. Self-help and Social         -       -     11.0    2.5   13.5
Services Sub-projects        -       -     (4.0)   -      (4.0)
2. Consultant Services              -      -      3.5    -       3.5
and Studies                     -       -     (0.8)   -      (0.8)
3. Vehicles and Equipment          -       0.3    0.2    -       0.5
-     (0.3)   -       -     (0.3)
4. Operations and                  -       -      -       1.2    1.2
Administration                   _-            -      (0.7)  (0.7)
TOTAL                              3.0   20.0   14.7   10.3   46.4
(3.0) (11.5)  (4.8)  (0.7)  20.0
Notes:
i/ Includes: (a) Self-help and Social Services Sub-Projects which
are implemented by the PC directly; (b) consultant services procured
according to IDA Guidelines; and (c) items to be financed by the EC
and procured using their procedures.
2/ Includes the community contribution to the sub-projects and
Operations and Administration costs to be procured using local
procedures acceptable to IDA
4.15        Operations and administrative costs for the MPU, including
maintenance and operations of equipment and vehicles, salaries and per
diem for support staff, and office supplies, will be procured using
local practices acceptable to IDA.
4.16         Table 4.4 shows the expected distribution of procurement
across the various categories. The distribution is based on IDA
estimates of the future mix of sub-projects. Actual implementation
experience may be different, depending on the size and type of sub-
projects approved by the Project's Steering Committee.
4.17        Contract Review.  Bidding packages for ICB civil works and
goods and sai--ces will be subject to IDA prior review of procurement
documentation, including tender documents, evaluation reports, and draft



- 31 -
contracts. Bidding documents for LCB and prudent shopping will also be
reviewed and finalized by IDA prior to solicitation of bids. All sub-
projects with an estimated total cost of US100,000 or more will be sent
for prior review by IDA. This review will i,clude a review of all
proposed procurement procedures. During the first six months of
implementation all sub-project packages will be subiect to prior review
by IDA. Based on the findings of this review, IDA may decide to
continue full prior review or otherwise adjust the procurement
procedures. All sub-projects will be subject to random post-award
review by IDA. The MPU will therefore be required to keep full
procurement documentation on file for easy access. In its annual
reports (para 6.1(e)), the MPU will present a summary of procurement
activities under the Project.
E. Disbursement
4.18        The proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed as follows
(Table 4.5):
(a)   100 percent of local expenditures, and 90 percent of foreign
for civil works contracts and for goods and services
purchased by the MPU for sub-projects;
(b)   80 percent of total sub-project cost for Self-help Sub-
projects;
(c)   90 percent of total sub-project cost for Social Services
Sub-projects;
(d)   100 percent of the net of taxes cost of consultant services
and studies;
(e)   100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of vehicles and
equipment; and
(f)   85 percent of the additional operating cost of MPU.
4.19        Taxes are estimated at about 10 percent, IDA will not be
disbursing against taxes. The proceeds of the credit are expected to be
disbursed over a period of up to six years (Table 4.6.)
4.20        To be eligible for IDA funding, sub-projects with a total
cost of US$100,000 or more must be cleared by IDA prior to the signing
of the sub-project contract. Any sub-project not included in the
categories in Annex III or with a priority rating of 4 in Annex III,
will have to be cleared by IDA prior to disbursement. These sub-
projects are included in the "Large Sub-projects" disbursement category.
All other sub-project files are subject to review by IDA on a random
sampling basis. The MPU will keep all sub-project files available for
IDA review.
4.21        Special Account.  To facilitate timely project
implementation, the Government will establish, maintain and operate,



- 32 -
Table 4.5s Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
Disbursement Category              IDA Allocation    2 of Expenditure
(US$ million)     to be Financed
1. Civil. Works for:
a. Large Sub-projects                 5.0          1002 of foreign
902 of local
b. Other Sub-projects                 5.2          1002 of foreign
902 of local
c. Self-help Sub-projects             2.0          802 of sub-
project cost
2. Goods for Sub-projects               2.0          100Z of foreign
902 of local
3. Social Services Sub-projects         2.0          802 of sub-
project cost
4. Consultant Services and Stuties      0.7          1002
S. Vehicles and Equipment               0.3          1002 of foreign
6. Operations and Administration        0.4          852
7. Refunding Project Preparation Fac.  0.4           N.A.
8. Unallocated                          2.0
-------------------------------------------------------------__-----
TOTAL                                  20.0
------------------------------------------------------------------__
Table 4.6: Disbursement Profile
(US$ million)
---------------------------------------------------------------__---
IDA Fiscal Year     FY92      PY93     FY94     FY95    FY96      FY97
--------------__----------------------------------------------------
Annual              2.1       3.3      4.4      4.6      4.2      1.4
Cumulative          2.1       5.4      9.8     14.4    18.6      20.0
Cumulative (Z)     10.42    26.82    48.92    72.02   93.0Z   100.02
----------------------------------------------------------------__--
under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, a Special Account in a
commercial bank acceptable to IDA. IDA will make an initial deposit,



- 33 -
equivalent to about US$2 million. This amount is expected to cover
about six months of eligible expenditures. The Special Account will be
replenished frequently, preferably once a month. The Special Account
will be operated by the MPU.
4.22        Statements of Expenditure.  Disbursements will be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure for all expenditures on sub-
projects with a cost of less than US$100,000. The statements will be
audited as part of the annual audits (para. 4.23).
F. Accounting. Auditing and Reporting
4.23        The MPU will maintain separate accounts for the IDA
contribution to the Project. It has installed a computerized management
information and accounting system that the MPU Financial Manager will
maintain. IDA has appraised this system and found it acceptable.
4.16        IDA's experience with audit reports in Zambia has been good.
With respect to this Project, an independent private auditing firm will
perform financial audits every twelve month'. These audits will be
submitted within six months of the end of the fiscal year. Project
accounts including the Special Account will be audited in accordance
with IDA guidelines. There will be a separate audit of disbursements
against certified statements of expenditures. The Government has
provided assurances to this effect during negotiations.
4.17        As agreed between IDA, the EC, and the MPU, technical audits
will be performed from time to time. Such audits will investigate the
technical quality of individual sub-projects.
4.18        The MPU will submit to IDA, for information, the quarterly
progress reports submitted to its Steering Committee (standard reporting
format is available in the Project File). Furthermore the Government
has agreed to the following reporting requirements:
(a)   By February 1992, and every year after that, the MPU
will present a written report on the progress during
the preceding calendar year. Such a report will be
discussed with IDA during the annual implementation
review. This report will contain, inter alia, the
results of the financial and technical audits
performed, a review of procurement performance
(including information sub-project by sub-project on
each contract's procurement method and location of
supporting documentation), summary of any monitoring
undertaken (e.g., beneficiary assessment) and a
summary of the impact of the sub-projects. The report
should contain an attachment from MOF showing progress
under the SAP, and certifications from the MOH and
MGEYS that any staff position promised for new
infrastructure funded during the last year has indeed
been allocated in the budget for the current fiscal
year.



- 34 -
(b)   By September 1992, and every year after that, the
Government will present a progress report on the
Analysis and Monitoring Component that will contain,
inter alia: summary of surveys and statistical
analysis undertaken, number and results of studies
funded under studies fund, and a work program for the
next year endorsed by the SSS. The MPU will prepare
this report based on information from the SSS and the
CSO.
(c)   Within six months of the Project's closing date, a
final report on implementation experience and Project
outcomes.
4.19        An annual implementation review will be performed beginning
in 1992 (Annex VII contains the full supervision schedule). Such
reviews will examine the annual progress report, individual sub-project
files, sectoral distribution of sub-projects, results of monitoring
activities, and a work program (including audits and monitoring) for the
following year. In March 1994 a mid-project review will be performed
based on the annual progress reports of 1992, 1993 and 1994. Based on
these reviews IDA will evaluate the operation of the Project and will
revise operating procedures to ensure the most effective project
implementation.



- 35 -
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1         Substantial benefits will be generated by the approximately
1,400 sub-projects implemented in poor communities. These sub-projects
will improve local infrastructure or extend services to the communities.
The appraisal criteria followed for the sub-projects will ensure a
sufficiently high degree of cost effectiveness and that benefits accrue
to the poor or vulnerable.
5.2         The Project will help sustain the macroeconomic adjustment
program through its support to SAP activities. It is designed to
improve communities' social conditions on their own terms and help
protect poor communities until the positive effects of the adjustment
program come about. Thus, it should help lessen social discontent with
the adjustment program. Such support is important, as the last attempt
at stabilization and reform in the Zambian economy was aborted because
of social discontent.
5.3         The adjustment program emphasizes the need to decentralize
economic initiative, devolving some economic influence that the central
Government had previously controlled to more dispersed economic actors.
This Project will help extend this devolution to social sector
activities. It will also help to develop decentralized initiatives and
institutions to take those initiatives. As DCs are involved in the sub-
project cycle, they gain valuable experience in project appraisal and
management.
B. Risks
5.4         Because the Government has limited implementation capacity,
there is a risk of noor project implementation. The MPU does have a
proven track record in implementing small sub-projects, and it uses
local and regional entities in the approval process. The revised
appraisal guide, the accounting systems, frequent audits, and intensive
supervision by IDA will diminish this risk, The effect of the
institutional limitations will be further minimized by encouraging
simplicity in sub-projects design; building on local and regional
initiatives; and providing technical assistance and institutional
support for the MOF and regional agencies. There is also a risk that
national economic, political or policy developments will change
unfavorably, or alternatively that the extreme poverty and adverse
social conditions of a large fraction of the population will not improve
fast enough, even with the SAP and this project, to avert a deepening
national crisis. This risk is being addressed through multi-donor
efforts to mobilize adequate and timely financial assistance to the
Government's economic measures.



- 36 -
VI.  RECOMMENDATIONS AND ASSURANCES
6.1         During negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Government on the following items:
As conditions for effectiveness:
(a) The MPU will present a finalized appraisal guide,
acceptable to IDA (a draft, acceptable to IDA, is
available in Project Files);
(b) The MPU will present final terms of reference for
MPU staff and an action plan for hiring of such
staff;
(c) The MPU will demonstrate that a sufficient pipeline
of sub-project proposals are available to cover the
activities of the first quarter of operations; and
As dated covenants:
(d)  By January_1992 and every year after that the
Government will show that there has been an increase
in real terms in the budget for non-renumeration
recurrent costs for health and education
As reporting requirements:
(e) By March 1992, and every year after that, the MPU
will present a written report on the progress during
the preceding calendar year. Such a report will be
discussed with IDA during the annual implementation
review. This report will contain, inter alia, the
results of the financial and technical audits
performed, a review of procurement performance,
summary of any monitoring undertaken (e.g.,
beneficiary assessment) and a summary of the impact
of the sub-projects. The report should contain an
attachment from MOF showing progress under the SAP,
and certifications from the MOH and MGEYS that any
staff position promised for new infrastructure
funded during the last year has indeed been
allocated in the budget for the current fiscal year.
(f) By September 1992, and every year after that, the
Government will present a progress report on the
Analysis and Monitoring Component that will contain,
inter alia: Summary of surveys and statistical
analysis undertaken, number and results of studies
funded under studies fund, and a work program for
the next year endorsed by the SSS.



- 37 -
(g) Within six months of the Project's closins date a
final reort on implementation eeperience and
ProJect outcomes.



- 38 -                            ANNEX 
Page 1 of 1
ANNEX I. DETAILS OF INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
IDA Financed Institutional Support
(in US$)
Unit Costs per Month               Total for Five Years
Foreign  I  Local      I  Foreign I Local 1 Total
---- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---  --
Deputy Coordinator    7,500 1                 450,000        0 1 450,000
Accountant                  ,  1,500                0 1 90,000 1 90,000
Technical Specialist            1,500     1         0 1 90,000 1 90,000
Regional Staff                  1,500               0 1 90,000    90,000
Training Specialist         ,  1,500                0   90,000 1 90,000
Secretary                         750               0   45,000    45,000
Secretary                         750               0   45,000    45,000
Driver                            500               0   30,000    30,000
Driver                            500               0 1 30,000    30,000
Driver                            500               0   30,000    30,000
Computers and
Equipment                                70,000 7      0 1 70,000
Vehicles (4x)        27,000                   108,000        0   108,000
Vehicle Maintenance     700 1    300           42,000 | 18,000    60,000
External Auditors     6,000                    30,000             30,000
Supplies and
Operation       1,500 1    100           90,000 1 6,000    96,000
Workshops 9@$600/yr               450     1         0 | 27,000    27,000
Staff Travel (1.5 *
600 visits @ $30)        1   2250      1         0 1135,000 1 135,000
Construction of offices     1             1   40,000 1 10,000 I 50,000
--------------------------------------------------------------------__-----
Base Costs Total                              830,000  736,000 1,566,000
-----------------------------------------------------------__--------------
Price Contingencies                            41,500   80,960   122,460
Physical Contingencies                         83,000   73,600   156,600
Grand Total                                   954,500  890,560 1,845,060



ANNEX LII
- 39                    Page l of 10
ANNEX ri. LIST OF EC-FUND2p MICRO-gROJECTS
KICROPROJECTS PRGRAMME, 1990
1.  EDUCATION  -  103 PROJECTS                                   ZK  123,450
CENTRAL PROVINCE
1    is Cnengllo Secondary School Extension                      1,300,000
2.  Kaiundu Primary School Extension                        1,390,000
3.  Kapyanga Primary School Extension                      1,300,000
4.  Lomrbwa Priaary School Extension                        1,650,000
5.  Lukanga Pre-School                                        750,000
6.  Mukobeko Primary School Extension                         550,000
7.  Munga Primary School Extension                          1,750,000
8.  Nambala Basic School Phase 2                            1,400,000
9.  Mpima School .Rehabilitation                              950,000
10.  Mumba School      "                                       850,000
11.  Mukobeko Secondary School Rehabilitation                  550,000
12.  Natuseko School Latrines                                  100,000
13.  St Paul's School Water Supply                           1,500,000
14.  Consolidation of School Projects                          500,000
TOTAL CENTRAL PROVINCE    14                                14,450,000
2.   COPPERBELT PROVINCE
i.  chamunda Primary School Extension                       400,000
2.  Ibenga Secondary School Housing                       1,500,000
3.  Kasompe Primary School Extension                       400,000
4.  Muleya Primary School Extension                         550,000
5.  Mushili secondary School Extension                   1,400,000
6.  Nampanda Primary School                              1,900,000
7.  Pamodzi Primary School                                 400,000
8.  St. Joseph Secondary School - Phase 1                3,300,000
9.  St Joseph Secondary School - Phase 2                 5,000,000
10.  St Joseph Social Centre Rehabilitation               1,200,000
11.  Consolidation of School Projects                        500,000
TOTAL COPPERBELT PROVINCE   11                           16,550,000



- 40-                           AINEX. &U
Pago 2 of 10
EEC MICROPROJECTS PROGRAMME, 1990
EDUCATION/CONTINUED
3.   EASTERN PROVINCE                                                ZK
1.  Chiparamba Basic School Extension                      550,000
2.  Chipata Day Secondary School Housing                   850,000
3.  Gondar Secondary School Extension                      950,000
4.  Hillside Secondary School Extension                   1,300,000
5.  Kanjala basic School Extension                         550,000
6.  Matunga Basic School Extension                        1,350,000
7.  Mfuwe Basic School Extension                           750,000
8.  St Anne Basic school Extension                          550,000
9.  Consolidation of School Projects                        750,000
TOTAL EASTERN PROVINCE         9                         7,600,000
4.   LUAPULA PROVINCE
1.  Chienge Primary School Phase 2                       1,350,000
2.  Chimpempe Primary School Extension                      650,000
3.  Kafumbwe Primary School Extension                      550,000
4.  Kambwali Primary School Extension                      350,000
5.  Kasauka Primary School Extension                       550,000
6.  Kasese Primary School Extension                        550,000
7.  Kashikishi Primary School Extension                    550,000
8.  Mano Primary School Extension                          550,000
9.  Nchelenge Primary School Extension                     550,000
10.  Samfya Primary School Extension                        550,000
11.  Twingi School Rehabilitation Pilot Project           1,500,000
TOTAL LUAPULA PROVINCE          11                       7,700,000



- 41 -                          BNNEX IS
Page 3 of 10
EDUCATION CONT'd
5.   LUSAKA PROVINCE                                                ZK
l.  Chamulimba Primary School Extension                    1,300,000
2.  Chawama Homecraft School                                  550,000
3.  Ch,elstone Basic School Extension                       1,350,000
4.  Kankhumba Primary School Extension                      1,500,000
5.  Katondwe Secondary School Rehabilitat:on              12,500,000
6.  Mphango Primary School - Phase 2                         800,000
7.  Nyangwena Primary School Extension                      1,400,000
8.  Roma Secondary School Housing                           1,750,000
9.  Consolidation of school Projects                          500,000
TOTAL LUSAKA PROVINCE         9                            21,650.000
6.   NORTHERN PROVINCE
1.  Charles Primary School Extension                         400,000
2.  Cnishamwamba Primary School Extension                   1,300,000
3.  Changa Primary School Extension                         1,350,000
4.  Kabanda Primary School Extension                          400,000
5.  Kambobe Primary School Extension                        1,300,000
6.  Katuta Basic School Phase 2                             1,300,000
7. Malole School Band Hall                                 5,000,000
8.  Mubili Primary School Renovations                       1,000,000
9.  Muchinshi Primary School Extension                      1,200,000
10.  Mwanambulu Primary School Extension                     850,000
11.  Lupungi' Primary School Extension                      1,350,000
12.  Nsombo Basic School Extension                          1,3R.0,0GO
13.  Tungati Basic School Extension                         1,350,000
14.  Consolidation of School Projects                       ;,350,000
TOTAL NORTHERN PRovrNcE       14la  O,M
7.   NORTHWESTERN PROVINCE
1.  Ikelenge Educational Infrastructure Project            3.600,000
TOTAL N/PESTERN PROVINCE    1                              3,600,000



EDUCATION CONT'D                                                   hNNEX It
- 42 -                   Page 4 of 10
8.   SOUTHERN PROVINCE                                                  ZK
1.  Dundu Primary School Extension                            850.000
2.  Kafwambila Primary School Extension                       800,000
3.  Kangila Primary School Extension                          850,000
4. Kayuni School Extension                                  1,200,000
5.  Magoye Primary School Renovations                         450,000
6.  Mambova Primary School Completion                         300,000
7.  Mulawo Primary School Extension                         1,100,000
8.  Muuka Primary School Extension                            800,000
9.  Mwaata Primary School Extension                           400,000
10.  Namulanga Primary School Extension                        400,000
11.  Nanga Primary S,:nool Extension                         1,100,000
12.  Nxandabwe Primary School Extension                        800,000
13.  Sekute Primary School Extension                           400,000
14.  Simandu Prirar-.' .chocl Extension                         350,000
15.  Simanyola Primary School Extension                        800,000
16.  Siyuni Primary School Extension                            850,000
17.  Kalundu/Ngoma School Extension                           1,200,000
18.  4 Schools Rehabilitation-Lusitu                          1,200,000
19.  CDP Schools Rehabilitation                              4,000,000
20.  Livingstome Basic School Rehabilitation                    800,000
21.  Mwaata Basic School . habilitation                         800,000
22.  Siavonga Basic School   "                                  750,000
23.  Consolidation School Projects                           .1,000,000
24.  2 Schools Rehabilitation/MAZ                               400,000
TOTAL EDUCATION SOUTHERN PROVINCE       24                  21,600,000
9.   WESTERN PROVINCE
1. Katondwana Primary School Upgrading                     1,350,000
2. Likuyu Primary School Upgrading                         1,350,000
3. Lubuta Primary School Upgrading                         1,350,000
4. Lulang'uyi Primary School Upgrading                     1,300,000
5. Luoke Primary School Upgrading.         .               1,300,000
6. Muweshi Primary School Upgrading                        1,300,000
7. Mwenyi Primary School Upgrading                         1,350,000
8. Situlu Primary School Upgradingi                        1,300,000
9. Lui/Wanyatu School Completion.                            300,000
10. Namaenya School Completion                                550,000
TOTAL.  EDUCATION  WESTERN  PROVINCE   10                  11,400,000



2.   HEA1TH                              - 43 -                   Page S of 10
1.  CENTRAL PROVINCE                                                    ZXK
1.  Kabwe Old Mortuary Rehabilitaiton                           600,000
2.  Kapini Rural Health Centre Housing                          900,000
3.  Mulilima Rural Health Centre Exter.sion                   1,450.000
4.  Nangoma Hospital Housing 2nd Phase                        3,500,000
5.  Shimukuni Rural Health Centre                             2,200,000
6.  Consolidation of Rural  Health Centre                       Soo,OOO
7.  Liteta Water Supply                                         500,000
TOTAL CENTRAL PROVINCE             7                          9.650,000
2.  COPPERSELT PROVINCE
1.  Masaiti Rural Health Centre Extension                     ;,400,000
2.  Luansobe Rural Health Centre  Phase 2                     2,500,000
3.  Thompson Nutrition Ward                                   3,500,000
TOTAL COPPERBELT PROVINCE           3                         7,400,000
3.  EASTERN PROVINCE
1.  Cheshire Home Completion - Chipata                        1,000,000
2.  Katete Hospital Extension                                 2,000,000
3.  ZFDS Clinic - Mangaka                                     4,000,000
4.  Consolidation of Rural Health Centres                     1,500,000
TOTAL EASTERN PROVINCE             4                          8,500,000
4.  LUAPULA PROVINCE
1.  Chimembe Rural Health Centre Extension                    1,500,000
2.  Chipako Rural Health Centre                               1,500,000
3.  Lufubu Rural Health Centre                                1,600,000
4.  Moloshi Rural Health Centre                               1,300,000
5,  Nambale Rural Health Centre                               1,500,000
6.  Njipi Rural Health Centre                                 1,500,000
7.  Consolidation of 3 Rural Health Centres - WV              4,200,000
TOTAL  LUAPULA PROVINCE             7                        13,100,000



2.   HEALTH CONT'D                                                      HEX .z
- 44 -           ~~P&g* 6 of lO
5.  LUSAKA  PROVINCE                                         P    6
1.  Katondwe Hospital Extension                               1,350,000
2.  cheshire Home Water Supply                                  400.000
3.  Nyangwena Rural Health Centre                               450,000
4.  UTH Mothers' Shelter                                      3,000,000
5.  Consolidation of Rural Health Centres                     1,500,000
TOTAL LUSAKA PROVINCE            5                            6,700,000
6.  NORTHERN PROVINCE
1.  Chanka Rural Health Centre                                     2,450,000
2.  Chilonga Hospital Upgrading                                    3,000,000
3.  Lukulu Rural Health Centre Completion                          1,750,000
4.  Nzoche Rural Health Centre                                     2,450,000
5.  ZFDS - Kalabwe clinic                                          4,000,000
6.  ZFDS - Sunkutu Clinic                                          4,000,000
7.  Chilubula Water Supply                                           700,000
TOTAL NORTHERN PROVINCE          7                            18,350,00
7.  NORTHWESTERN PROVINCE
1.  Cheshire Home Scheme - Completion                         2,000,000
2.  Mobezhi Rural Health Centre                                2,550,000
3.  St Francis Rural Health Centre Supply Rehabilitation    2,500,000
TOTAL HEALTH NORTH-WESTERN PROVINCE         3                 7,050,000
8.  SOUTHERN PROVINCE
1.  Chikuni Rural Health Centre theatre                        700,000
2.  Chivuma Rural Health Centre Completion                   4,000,000
3.  Gwembe Hospital Mortuary                                 1,200,000
4.  Manchanka Rural Health Centre                            2,600,000
5.  Manetuba Rural Health Centre Completion                  1,200,000
6.  Monze RHCs Water Supply Rehabilitation                   2,000,000
7.  Munumbwe Rural Health Centre Extension                      500,000
8.  Syamnyola Ruril Health centre                               700,000
TOTAL SOUTHERN PROVINCE         8                          12,900,000



- 45 -                     ANNELU
Page 7 of 10
HEALTH CONT'D
9.  WESTERN PROVINCE
1. Completion of TB Ward - Kaoma                                750,000
TOTAL WESTERN PROVINCE        1                                  750,000
TOTAL HEALTH               45                                 84,400,000



ANNEXI
NICROPROJECTS PROGRAIOE, 1990          - 46 -                  Page 8 of 10
3.   RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE                                              ZK
1.   COPPERBELT PROVINCE
1.  Ipafu Bridge                                             300,000
2.  Fipuya Bridge                                            300,000
TOTAL COPPER8ELT        2                                    600,000
2.   EASTERN PROVINCE
1.  Chikuse Social Infrastruct  Project                    4,200,000
2.  Impande Dam Repairs                                      150,000
3.  Kakwia. Post Office                                    1,000,000
4.  Katete Stream Bridge                                     200,000
5.  Petapeta Dam Repairs                                     150,000
6.  Kasenengwa River Reclamation                           1,500,000
7.  Kasenengwa River Reclamation                           2,000,000
TOTAL EASTERN PROVINCE        7                            9C200,000
3.   NORTHERN PROVINCE
1.  Chinkundu Embarkment                                   1,700,000
Z.  Ke.ianda depot                                           250,000
3.  Lubu 4 depots                                            200,000
4.  Nkweto 4 culvets                                         250,000
TOTAL NORTHERN PROVINCE         4                          2,400,000
4.   SOUTHERN PROVINCE
1.  Nkandabwe Road repairs                                   500,000
2.  Sikaneka Road Repairs                                    500,000
TOTAL SOUTHERN PROVINCE          2                         1,000,000
CONSOLIDATION OF INFRASTRUCTLRE  -  GENERAL                  50.0OOO
TOTAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE        16  PROJECTS            13,700,000



- 4 7 -                      NJXI
NICROPROJECTS  PROGRAMM,  1990                                   Page 9 of 10
4.   WATER SUPPLY
EASTERN PROVINCE                                                  ZK
1.   Chikowa Youth Project Water Supply                       1,200,000
2.   10 wells Rehabilitation - Katete District                  350,000
TOTAL EASTERN PROVINCE               2                        1 *550,0000
NORTHERN PROVlNCE
1.   Pehabilitation of 4 Wells - Nkweto                         150,000
TOTAL NORTHERN PROVINCE             1                            150,000
SOUTHERN PROVINCE
1.   Maramba Water Sanitation                                  200,000
2.   Mwandi Water supply                                       400,000
3.   Nakatindi Water Supply                                    300,000
4.   Ngwenya Water Supply                                      300,000
5.   Sakubita Water Supply                                     300,000
TOTAL SOUTHERN PROVINCE              5                        1 *500 *000
COPPERBELT PROVINCE
1.   Buntungwa Compound Water Supply                          3,500,000
TOTAL COPPERBELT    PROVINCE   1                              3 500,000
CONSOLIDATION OF WATER PROJECTS - GENEtL                        500,000
TOTAL WATER SUPPLY                10                          7,200,000



- 48-                      ANNEX II
NICROPROJECTS PROGRAMME    1990                              Page 10 of 10
5.   OTHER SECTORS
LUSAKA PROVINCE                                               ZK
1.   Chawama Post Office                                  1,500,000
2.   Chawama Housing Scheme                               5,000,000
3.  J. Howard Housing Scheme                              5,000,000
TOTAL LUSAKA PROVINCE        3                           11,500,000
WESTEPN PROVINCE
1.   Mayukwayukwa Fish Farm                                 100,000
TOTAL WESTERN PROVINCE                                      100,000
SOUTHERN PROVINCE
1.   2 Grinding Mills - Lusitu                            1,000,000
TOTAL SOUTHERNPROVINCE  1                                 1 000.000
TOTAL OTHER SECTORAL             5                       12,600,000



- 49 -                          ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
ANNEX III. SUB-PROJECT CATEGORIES
Priority (1-4)
I N  | H/1   Rehabilitation of Health Centers                              1
H   IF'
R  I H/2   Rehabilitation of District or Mission Hospitals               2
E   IA  I
I S    1H/3   Rehabilitation of Child Care Centers or Shelters             1
A   IT  I
I R    H H/4   Expansion of Health Centers                                 2
L   IU
I C  S H/5   Construction of Health Centers                                3
T   IT
U  I H/6   Expansion of Child Care Centers or Shelters                   2
H   IR
'E    H H/7   Construction of Child Care Centers or Shelters               3
O                                                    --_   _ _  _ __ _ _ _ _
C I SI
I E    H H/13  Preventive Health Programs                                  1
A   IR
I V  5 H/14  Equipment and Inputs for Rehabilitated Health Centers         1
R     II
I C  I H/1S  Equipment and Inputs for Unrehabilitated Health Centers       3
E   IE  I
IN
U    H H/20  Community Vegetable Gardens                                 1
IT I
I R    H 1/21  Community Grinding Mills                                    2
I  I
T  ! H/23  Health and/or Nutritional Training                            1
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .I 



- 50 -                           ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
W     S  I W/27  Rehabilitation of Water Supply Systems                        1
A|
A     N  I W/28  Expansion of Water Supply Systems                             1
II,
T     T  | W/29  Construction of Water Supply Systems                          2
A|
E     T  I W/30  Latrines and Other Simple Sanitation                          1
I  |
R     0  | W/31  Solid Waste Removal                                           2
N|
I W/32  Sewerage                                                     3
& 0
[  W/33  Public Washhouses (Bathrooms)                               3
l   E/38  Rehabilitation of Primary Schools                          1
t'  I 
0 N  | E/39  Expansion of Primary Schools                                 1
|F   I
E   | R  I E/40  Construction of Primary Schools                               2
IA
D     S  | E/41  Furniture and Materials for Rehabilitated Primary Schools   1
IT |
U   I R  I E/42  Furniture and Materials for Other Primary Schools             3
C   I C  I E/43  Rehabilitation of Secondary Schools                           2
ITI
A   t U  | E/44  Expansion of Secondary Schools                                2
|E I
T   I    I E/45  Construction of Secondary Schools                             4
I    I | E/46  Furniture and Materials for Rehabilitated Secondary Schools 2
   I    I E/47  Furniture and Materials for Other  Secondary  Schools         3
I    O
N   |-----------------------------------------_---------_______________________
|T  |
O  R  I E/51  Skills Development      f
N
| G  | E/52  Adult Literacy                                               2
_    I



- 51 -                               ANNEX I I
Page 3 of 3
I/57  Rehabilitation of Irrigation Systems                             1
I  | I/58  Rural Roads Rehabilitation                                       2
F    I/59  Rehabilitation of Bridges                                        2
E     RI
C     A    I/60  Rehabilitation of Markets
o     SI
N     T    I I/61  Expansion of Irrigation Systems                                 2
o     RI
M     U    I I/62  Construction of Irrigation Systems                              3
I     CI
C     T    I/63  Construction of Rural Roads                                       4
R    1 I/64  Construction of Bridges                                        4
El
I 1/65  Expansion of Markets                                             2
I/66  Construction of Markets                                          4
I/67  Expansion of Food Depots                                           3
I 1/68  Construction of Food Depots                                      4
01
T  10/75  Primary Sector Enterprise Revolving Funds                         2
HI
E    0 0/76  Secondary Sector Enterprise Revolving Funds                    2
RI
10/77  Tertiary Sector Enterprise Revolving Funds                       4



- 52 -                                           ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 11
ANNEX IV. & lICATION FORM
MICROP. ECTS UNIT
NATIONAL COMMISION ..'A DEVELOPMENT PLANNING
For the use of MPU:
REQUEST FORMS FOR PROJECTS
IN HEALTH, EDUCATION. WATER
AND SANITATION AND ECONONIC                    Date Received:
INFRASTRUCTURE
Code;    /   /   /   /
1. Name of the Project: ...........................................
...................................................................
2. Location of the Project:              Province: ................
District: ..................            Ward .
Rural or urban area? ........................................
3. Project sponsor: ...............................................
4. Anount Requested: ..............................................
S. Population Benefitting from the Project:
a) Number of People who will benefit
DIRECTLY from the Project: (Give # of beneficiaries annually                if it
applies)
........................
b) How many of the beneficiaries are women?           ...............
c) How many of the beneficiaries are children? ...............
d) What is the average age of the benficiaries................
e) What is the most common occupation of the beneficiaries?
..................   ....0........................................... g*..+...............- 
f) What is the average monthly income of the
beneficiaries?
. .............  (KW/month)
6. Description of the Project (Indicate the buildings which you
will put up or the service you would provide. In a separate document attach
any additional information which you consider important):
Rehabilitation:           .................
.                     .............................................
Completion: ...................................................



-53 -                                                        ANNEX I
Page 2 of 11
Expansiont ................................... .   ...............
0............. ......................................0....... ......
New  Construction:  .............................................
......................................................0..........
Services:  .....................................                          ..............
....................................................                              .........
7. a) Justification of the Project (Describe the problem and how this project
contributes to resolving it):
.................... ..................................................... 
................................................................
................................................................
S. Operation and Maintenance (Once the project is finished):
a)  Responsible  Institution:  ...............................
b)  origin  of  Resources:  ...................................
c) Approximate Annual Cost of Operation and Maintenance:
..........................................................
9. Data on the Requesting Agency.
a)  Name  of  the  Institution:               .............................
b)  Name  of  the Legal  Representative:.......................
Name  of  Other Officers  of  the  Requesting Agency:  .......
...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................
...........................................................
......................              .......................................................................
c) Address  of  Requesting Agency: ...........................
...........................................................
d) Telephone: ....................... Fax: ..........



54-                                              ANNEX
Page 3 of 11
10. Mon-Govornaental Organtsations ONLY should respond to the followings
a) Sector of Activity in which you are working....                  .
... *0.... ** *** *   ............................ **......
b) Principal Source of Financing for your Activitio s.
.......00................................................
c) Experience in the Sector of Activity of the Project                      (Indicate what
other programs or projects you have    implemented or supervised and when):
............................
......................... ........
......................................................
...........................................................
d) Formal Relations with Government?   Yes ......  No........
a) Name of contact(s) in the Project Community.............
........................................................



- 55 -                                     ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 11
11. Budget of the Project:
Total Amount     Community Contrib.   Other
Summary of                                                  Cont-
Project Costs                                               ribu-
KW                 K XW       %        tions
Skilled Labour
Unskilled Labour
Domestic Materials
Imported Materials
Domestic Equipmt.
Imported Equipmt.
Administrat. Costs
Transport
TOTAL:                          100%
12. Estimated Duration of Project Execution:  (Months) .........
13. Duration of the Activities of the Project (Cronogram):
Months
Principal
Activities           1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9 10 11 12
1.
2.
3.
4.
5 .
6.
7.
8.



- 56 -
Page 5 of 11
14. GENERAL BUDGET OF TEE PROJECT
_                               | ~~~~~~~~~AMOUNT
ITEM          UNIT QUANTITY   UNIT PRICE   TOTAL COST      REQUESTED
(kw)          (kw)       OF MPU (kw)
1.,_                             
2.
3.
4.
S.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.



- 57 -                                       ANNEX
Page 6 of 11
14. GENERAL BUDGET OF THE PROJECT
AMOUNT
ITEM           UNIT QUANTITY   UNIT PRICE   TOTAL COST          REQUESTED
(kw)           (kw)        OF MPU (kw)
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
TOTAL COST



- 58 -ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 11
15. General Data on the Community which will benefit from the
Project.       (Mark those which apply)
a) EXisting Institutions:
Municipalities                      yes              no
Parents-Teachers Assoc.            yes               no
Women's Group                       yes              no
Parish                             yes               no
b) Existing Infrastructure:
Sewage                             yes               no
Potable Water                      yes               no
Latrines                           yes               no
Electricity                        yes               no
Telegraph                           yes              no
Telephone                           yes              no
Post O1f ice                        yes              no
Hospital                            yes              no
Health Center                       yes              no
Dispensary                          yes              no
School                              yes              no
Market Place                        yes              no
Other
c) Access Roads:
Airport or Landing Field            yes              no
Port                                yes              no
Railroad                            yes              no
Road                                yes              no
d) State of the Roads in general?
Good
Average
Bad
Paved



- 59                                                     ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 11
1.    Visit made by:
Name:  .................................
Signature:   ...       .... ..       ........ Dates 
2.    Information  from the Inspection:                   ..........
............             . ..  .... ... ..... ...O.
...............................
...   .. . .. . .. . . .. . .. . . +e-         .. .. .. . -   O.**.-@ svvv-* +    @-** + *** ....
3.    Evaluation of the Project:  .......................
..............................
..............................
.......................................................
4.    Approval of the Chief of the Technical Department:
Dae:........
2For use by the MPU.



- 60 -                            ANNEX I
Page 9 of 11
CHECKLIST EOR THE DISTRICT COUNCILS (or NGOs)
The following checklist must be filled out by the District
Councils regarding this project (unless the project is coming
directly from an established NGO).
1. Does this project comply with your District's development
plans?
...... .  yes  ......  no
2. a) Was this project identified and chosen with the help of the
community which will benefit?
..0. .. .  yes  ......  no
b) Are minutes of the meeting(s) with the community attached?
...... . *  yes  ..... no
3. Is this project located in an accessible area?
.... .   .  yes  ......  no
4. Does your district (or a nearby district) have the necessary
skilled labour, transport and materials available for the
project?
.... ..  yes  .  ....  no
5. Does the community have any previous experience in
implementing this type of project?
.... . .. . yes .   no
6. Will the community be able to maintain this project?
...... yes       . no
If the answer to any of the above questions is no, please state
whether you still think this project should be considered and why
on the back of this form. Please do not reject the project
because the request form is not complete. If possible, the
District Council should aid the community in completing the form
as much as possible, but in any case please pass this request
form on to the MicroProjects Unit at NCDP.
Signed by:                           Position:
Date:



-61 -                              MVIV
Page 10 of 11
PLEASE SEND THIS REQUEST FORM WITH YOUR COMPLETED CHECKLIST ON TO
THE PROVINCIAL PLANNING UNIT IF YOU WISH THE PROJECT TO BE
CONSIDERED FOR FUNDING BY THE MICROPROJECTS UNIT



-62 -                              ANNlX I!
Page 11 of 11
CHECKLIST FOR THE PROVINCIAL PLANNING UNIT
The Provincial Planning Unit (PPU) should receive this request
form from a District Council or an NGO. The request form and
District Council checklist should be complete. The PPU should
answer yes or no to each of the following questions:
1. Does this project proposal have the approval of the relevant
GRZ department?
... 0 yes  ...... no
2. Does the PPU commit itself to providing in its budget the cost
of maintaining and staffing this new facility (if appropriate)?
yes  ...... no
3. Can the package of projects which the PPU is sending on to the
Microprojects Unit be properly monitored and its target achieved
in 1 financial year?
.yes  ...... no
If the answer to any of the above questions is no please explain
whether you think this project should still be considered for
funding and why.
Signed by:           _              Position:
Date:  ___
PLEASE DO NOT DELAY THE PROJECT IF THE REQUEST FORM IS NOT
COMPLETE. PLEASE SEND THE ENTIRE REQUEST FORM WITH COMPLETED
CHECKLISTS ON TO THE MICROPROJECTS UNIT



-63 -                            A_.EX
Page 1 cf 2
ANNEX V. BENEFICIARY ASSESSMENT
A.      The beneficiary assessment of the MPU would provide insights
particularly focussed on the participatory aspects of MPU activities. These
insights would be of use to Government and donor agencies as they formulate
policies and programs which motivate the people of Zambia to take an
increasingly active role in their own development. The assessment would
commence in July, 1991 and run for six months with two follow-up phases of
three months, one in each of the subsequent two years. The assessment would
cover roughly 65 projects and another 10 communities which have received no
assistance and are not seeking it. Thus, approximately one third of all MPU-
supported (190 in all) would be assessed.
B.      The methodology of this beneficiary assessment would follow that
employed in other Bank-supported efforts elsewhere, with the complementary
application of conversational interviews and participant observation involving
on-site residence, in this case for one month in each community. Interviews
would be conducted with beneficiaries (workers on the project and other
community residents), service providers (formal and informal, i.e. nurse and
traditional midwife) and local institutions (provincial planning units,
district councils, NGOs). The objective of the interview would be to gain an
understanding of how the community participated in project design and
execution, how they see themselves benefitting from the project, and how the
activity might be transferred to other locales.
C.      The assessment would be conducted by nine persons and one supervisor.
The nine would be divided into three teams of three, at least one of whom
would be female. Each team would be led by a Chief and would cover one third
of tne country, divided along geographical and ethnic lines: (a) Central-
Northern -- Bemba; (b) Eastern-Southern - Nyanja and Tonga; (c) Western
provinces -- Lozi, Kaonde and Lunda. Roughly one third of funded projects is
in each of these three areAs. Most (60%) projects assessed would be at
initiation/appraisal or early commencement phase, another third would be
projects already supported by the EC-supported program and a small number of
communities would be selected where there is no history or foreseeable future
of project activity. The urban/rural breakdown for projects and sites
selected would be one third to two thirds although, given the greater size of
urban projects, funding allocations may come closer to 50-50. Representative
sampling would be done in each village selected for the assessment, covering
roughly 20% of village households. The participant observation would
incorporate case studies (5 per village) in the nine villages covered by this
in-depth approach.
D.      The schedule for phase I, commencing in July 1991 is:
July 1 - 15               Training of interviewers; field test interview
guides
July 16 - October 31      Field work; brief interim report due by August 31
-- for mid-term review and correction
N:ovember                 Tabulation, analysis of data
December                  Preparation of final report
E.      Phase II and III in 1992 and 1993, of three months each, would
include two months of field work and one month of data tabulation and report
writing with a sub-sample, half of those projects covered in Phase I and
another five to ten new projects.



-64 -ANr                                                   V
Page 1 of 3
ANNEX VI. BUDGET FOR ANALYSIS AND MONITORING
Study budaet
(in  thousand  USS)
Budget item                   .       1T*991    1992 1    1993       1994 1   1995         Total I   Units
Personnel t
Long-term  international                18        36         36        36        36        162         39
consultants, 1/4 administrator                                                      1
I      ___ ._                                ._         .     _   .1 _             _
Short-term international                36       108         72         0         0        216         13
consuLtants 3 x (2m+2m)                 _       .-                   .
SUBTOTAL PERSONNEL                      54       144        108        36        36        378
Trainfing                         ____
In-country  raining                     20        30        30         30        30        140 |
National seminars                       10        10         10        10         10        50    . __.5_
SUBTOTAL TRAINING                       30        40         40        40        40        190
SuppLies and equipment
Microcomputers w/printer etc.   |       15        15                                        30          2
SUBTOTAL SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT          15        15               O    0         0         30
Specific studies
Beneficiary Assessment                 175                      l _            -           175 |
Studies Fund                            80       130        130       130       130        600 |          l
TOTAL SPECIFIC STUDIES                 255       130        130       130       130        775 1          l
TOTAL EXCLLDING CONTINGENCIES          354       329       278        206       206 |   1,3 73|           l
Contingencies                    r                        -
Price contingencies (5XJyear)  |         O|       16 |       28 |      33 |'45             122|
Physical contingencies (1OX)    l       351       33         28 [      21j1      21 .      138 l          l
TOTAL STUDY                      |    389        378 |     3341|    260         272      1,633



- 65 -ANNEXVI
Page 2 of 3
Survey Sub-ComPonent Budget
-Budget item                                      1991      1992    1993         1994/      1995     Total   Units
Personnel
Long-term international consultants,              108       144        144        72                  468       39
survey advisor            c
Short-term international consultants              5          36         72        36         36       234       13
National personnel                                                ..
National personnetl  headquarter
- Printing Officer                                2          2         2          _             _ _    6
National personnel, province/field                                                                      0
- Interviewers 100x3/12/3Mx114                   34         34       136         34        34        272     1200
- Data entry clerks 26x6/12/4Mx114               18         18        36         12        12         96      624
National allowances/travel                                                                 __ _____
- Interviewers 100x3/12/3Mx20                     6          6        24          6         6         48     1200
- Data entry clerks 26x6/12/4Mx20                 3          3         6          2         2         16      156
- Drivers 12x90/360/60Dx15                       16         16        64         11        11        118      292
- Supervisors 15x90/360/60Dx18                   24         24        97         16        16        177      322
- Headquarter 4x90/360/60Dx21                     8          8        32          5         5         58       72
SUBTOTAL PERSONNEL                               273        291       613        194        122     1      493
Training
Training, field staff
- Interviewers 100x1ODx6                          6          6         6          6         6 T       30
- Data entry clerks 26x14Dx6                      2          2         2          2         2         10
- Supervisors 9x30Dx18                            5          5         5          5         5         25
* Supervisors 4x30Dx21                            3|        3|         3|        3          3         15
In-country training
National workshops                                  8         8          8         8          8        40        5
Regional courses/study tours                       15        15         15        15         15        75       15
Study abroad, short term <3m                      30         30        30         30        30        150       10
Study abroad, 12m + field work in                  0         40          0        40                   80
Zambi8 12m
SUBTOTAL TRAINING                                 6         109        69 |      109        69        425



- 66-                                            ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 3
Supplies and ecquipment                         -          -                                         -         -
Office supplies, headquarter                        4         3          3         3          3        16
Microconputers, headquarter              _         20 _       _           .              .             20         2
Software. headquarter                               6                                           _       6        2
Printers, headquarter                              10 I              _                                 10         2
Vehicles 3x25                                      75            _   _                                 75         3
Other equipment, headquarter                        3                                                   3
Office supplies, provinces                          9         9          9         9          9        45     L
Microcomputers, provinces                         44                                                   44        11
Software, provinces                                15                                                  15        9
Printers, provinces                                8   _                         _  _    _              8       11
Other equipment, provinces                         15         1          1         1          1        19
SUBTOTAL SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT                    209         13         13        13         13       261
Operations and maintenance                   _____
Fuel 12x401x20Dx3/12/3xl.2                        34         34       138         34        34        274
Maintenance vehicles 15/100 of gas                  5         5         21         5          5        41
Maintenance computers                               4         4          4         4          4        20
Reports and printing                               4          4         16         4          4        32
SUBTOTAL OPERATIONS & MAINTENANCE                 47         47        179        47         47       367
TOTAL EXCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                    598        460       874        363       251      2.546
Contingencies
Price contingencies (5X/year)                       O        23         87        58         55       223
Physicat contingencies (10X)                       60        46         87        36         25       254
TOTAL SURVEY                                     658        529     1049         457       331      3,024



- 67 -
ANNEX VII. SUPERVISION SCHEDULE
A.   Borrower's Contribution to SupervLsion
1.   Annual progress reports on the implementation of sub-projects will
be prepared by the MPU. Such a report would be discussed with IDA
during the annual implementation review.
2.   Every year in September, the MPU would present a progress report on
the Analysis and Monitoring Component based on information from the
CSO.
3.   By January 1992 and every year thereafter the MPU would obtain a
guarantee from the Ministry of Finance that there has been an
increase in real terms in the budget for non-remuneration recurrent
costs for health and education.
4.   The MPU will also prepare quarterly reports to its Board of
Directors that will be sent to IDA for information.
5.   The MPU will maintain a separate file for each sub-project,
including all supporting documentation on disbursement,
procurement, supervision by DCs and MPU staff. Such files will be
made available for IDA's review during supervision.



-68 -                                UlX II
B.         IDA Supervision Inputs.
This schedule excludes the prior review of sub-projects. It is
estimated that such reviews would take about 15 staff-weeks in the first
year of implementation and 5 staff-weeks per year thereafter.
Approximate             Expected                    Activity            Staff
Dates              Skill Requirements                                    Inputs
(month/Year)                                                             (staff-
weeks)
09/91          Economist                    Supervision                  10
Engineer
Financial Specialist/-
Accountant
12/91          Economist (Task Manager)   Supervision                    2
02/92          Economist (Task Manager)   Annual Implementation          16
Nutrition Specialist        Review
Educator
Health Specialist
Engineer
Procurement Specialist
05/92          Economist (Task Manager)   Supervision                    2
09/92          Economist (Task Manager)   Supervision                    10
Engineer
Financial Specialist/-
Accountant
12/92          Economist (Task Manager)   Supervision                    2
02/93          Economist (Task Manager)   Annual Implementation          16
Nutrition specialist        Review
Educator
Health Specialist
Engineer
Water and Sanitation
Specialist
05/93          Economist (Task Manager)   Supervision                    2
09/93          Economist (Task Manager)   Supervision                    10
Statistician
Financial Specialist/-
Accountant
12/93          Economist (Task Manager)   Supervision                    2
02/94          Economist (Task Manager)   Mid-project Review             20
Nutrition Specialist
Educator
Health Specialist
Engineer
Water and Sanitation
Specialist
Statistician
05/94          Economist (Task Manager)   Supervision                    2



- 69 -
09/94           Economist (Task Manager)   Supervision                   10
Engineer
Statistician
Financial Specialist/-
Accountant
12/94          Economist (Task Manager)   Supervision                    2
02/95          Economist (Task Manager)   Annual Implementation          16
Nutrition Specialist        Review
Educator
Health Specialist
Engineer
Water and Sanitation
Specialist
Statistician
05/95           Economist (Task Manager)   Supervision                   2
09/95           Economist (Task Manager)   Supervision                   10
Engineer
Financial Specialist/-
Accountant
12/95          Economist (Task Manager)   Supervision                    2
02/96          Economist (Task Manager)   Project Completion Report  16
Statistician                Preparation Review
09/96          Economist (Task Manager)   Discussion of PPAR             2
findings



- 70 -ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 1
ANNEX VIII. DOCUMENT8 AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Chase, Robertt Notes on the Microprojecto Programme, October 1990
Galloway, Rae: Nutrition Interventions in Zambia, February 1991, DRAFT
Government of the Republic of Zambia: Social Action Programme For 1990-93; April
1990
Microproject. Unit: Appraisal Guide, DRAFT
Microproject. Unit: Quarterly Reporting Format
Microprojects Unit: World Bank/GRZ Negotiations on the Social Recovery Fund: Basic
Documentation, April 18, 1991
Microprojects Unit: EEC Microprojects Programme, LOME II, Final Report, April 1991
Milimo, John, Rural Development Studies Bureau, University of Zambia: Proposal for
Beneficiary Assessment.
Namfua, Pelad: Poverty Information Assessment, Washington, February 1991
Ulbaek, Susan: NGOs in Zambia and Their Role in Social Recovery, October 1990
Ulbaek, Susan: Implementing Policies Addressing Women in Development Activities,
October 1990
Zawde, D and Remstrand, G: ZAMBIA: An Assessment of the Health Sector, January
1991.



MAP SECTION



JBLIC OF ZA..  A                                                                                                   *                     .   Sanoo
POPULATION DISTRIBUTION                                                                                                                               Kasooo?*4   N>                         T A N Z A N I A
{ M oCr ': " 4,,Mt.         ,            JlI      Mo.
1969 CENSUS:                             -        Roods                                                                                                                                                                        T
One dot represents 500 persons  -  --- Roilwoys                                                                        C      foorerron            Mporokw'
Town populetions:                                                     ,.:. .
0   10,000                                    Rierna                                                                           \
0       50,000                                    S0n,ops
D    0oo,ooo0                            +    Airfields
-1    Q      200,000                         -      -Provincial  Pboundories                                                                                        .o
.-*-.Internotional boundories                                                                   5.
o                         NO    5                                                                                                 T.          E  R   N 
'C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A:
A  NGOLA  ~~~~~~~~~~o ~~ZAIRE                                                                                                                                            k."s  L AP I  
A    N    G         O L  A   ;      APUf  'I   
1 t . W   E S    T  E (R  N'                                                                                                                                                StANZAN.A
-4~~~~~~~~~~ |5                                                               *            05                                                                                                            AoOOi_mb Bsng -   'a   4  RA  000.  > , 
K b.\W  *   \   %,   . -  t   \   *   .   *   ,  *  ; ,   .   ,  . a p r c yZ                                 I  M   B   A   B   W   E                                 r%o  r nb - .a '
_._ '               N A M I B IMA                                                                /                                                                                                                     SA  1 5I U
W,EjS r-f2 E4' R- N                              -b.sohoorrr2                                                                          3O. 32'r
2,'  rOI5WANA  __________________________________________________________                                        ___________________________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
_______________________________________________                                                                                                                                                                                          3,*  .-



