OFFICIAL
DOCUMEN\TS
CREDIT NUMBER 2273 ZA
Development Credit Agreement
(Social Recovery Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated         4           , 1991


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2273 ZA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         Cw   i          ,T1991, between
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA (the Borrower) d INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreemuent, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of  the   Association,   dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Appraisal Guide" means the document to be prepared by
the Borrower for the appraisal of Sub-projects;
(b)   "MPU" means the Microprojects Unit established in the
Borrower's Ministry of Finance for implementing Sub-projects;
(c)   "NGO" means the Non-Governmental Organizations;
(d)   "Sub-project" means projects to be funded by MPU and
Financed from the proceeds of the Credit;
(e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;


﻿-2-
(f)   "Sub-project Agreement" means agreements to be entered
into between the Borrower and each Project Committee for financing
of Sub-projects;
(g)   "PC" means the Project Committees to be established in
each community for the purpose of carrying out Sub-projects. This
term shall include, but not be limited to Parent-Teacher
Associations, NGOs, Cooperatives or other associations established
in accordance with the respective laws of the Borrower;
(h)   "Projer.t  Preparation  Advance"  means  the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated March 12, 1991, and May 6,
1991, between the Borrower and the Association;
(i)   "Large Sub-project" means any sub-project with a total
cost equivalent to $100,000 or more; or sub-projects given a
priority rating of "four" in the Appraisal Guide; or sub-projects
not included in the list of eligible sub-projects in the Appraisal
Guide;
(j)   "Self-Help Sub-project" means any Sub-project to be
implemented by PCs using own-labor for, inter alia, rehabilitation
of primary education and health facilities in remote areas. The
total cost of each sub-project shall not exceed the equivalent of
$20,000; and
(k)   "Social Service Sub-project" means any sub-project to
be implemented by PCs for the delivery of preventative health
programs, training, literacy and skills development.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen
million   eight   hundred . thousand   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 14,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable


﻿-3-
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 1997, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association  shall   reasonably  request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such


﻿-4-
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing
November 1, 2001, and ending May 1, 2031. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on May 1, 2011, shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.


﻿5-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MPU
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
economic practices, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable MPU to carry out the
Project, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the Project by
MPU.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through
MPU in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
and except as provided in paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, with effect from January
1992, until completion of the Project submit annually to the
Association evidence satisfactory to the Association that the
Borrower has increased in real terms the budgetary allocation for
non-remuneration recurrent costs for health and education.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to or restriction upon its
other reporting requirements under the General Conditions and this
Agreement the Borrower shall:
(a)   with effect from March 31, 1992, until completion of
the Project submit annually to the Association for review progress
reports on the implementation of the Project. Said progress reports


﻿-6-
shall cover, inter alia, the results of the financial and technical
audits, a review of procurement issues, a summary of monitoring
activities and a summary of the impact of the sub-projects; and
(b)   with effect from September 30, 1992, until completion
of the Project submit annually to the Association for review a
progress report on activities under Part B of the Project covering,
inter  alia, a    summary  of  surveys  and  statistical  analysis
undertaken, number and results of studies funded under the studies
fund and the following year's work program.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall enter into Sub-project
Agreements, satisfactory to the Association with each PC providing,
inter alia, for:
(i)    the transfer of part of the proceeds of the
Credit on a grant basis to the PC for the
purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project;
and
(ii)    the obligations of the PC to carry out Part A of
the Project in accordance with the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in
the Appraisal Guide.
Section  3.06. The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, Sub-projects will be identified,
appraised and carried out in accordance with the procedures and on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Appraisal
Guide and in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, until completion of the
Project, maintain the MPU for the purpose of financing sub-projects
and carrying out the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) Without limitation or restriction to the
provisions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower
and the Association agree to -undertake not later than April 30,
1993, a review of the progress of the Project, based on performance
indicators satisfactory to the Association and pursuant to the
provision of this Agreement; and
(b)   the Borrower shall promptly undertake or cause MPU to
promptly undertake such modifications in the execution of the
Project as shall be necessary, in the Association's opinion, as a


﻿-7-
result of the review referred to in paragraph (a) above, for the
achievement of the objectives of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail,as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)    furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal year


﻿-8-
in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account or payment out of the Special Account was
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii) enable   the Association's representatives    co
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure  that  such  records  and  accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this
Agreement, a situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that MPU will be able to perform its obligations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions the following additional event is specified, namely, that
the event specified above shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Borrower has submitted to the Association a Sub-
project Appraisal Guide satisfactory to the Association;


﻿-9-
(b)   the Borrower has submitted to the Association final
terms of reference of MPU staff and an action plan, satisfactory to
the Association for hiring of staff; and
(c)   the Borrower has submitted to the Association Sub-
project proposals sufficient to cover the activities of the first
quarter of Project implementation.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 50062
Lusaka
Cable address:                 Telex:
MINFIN                    42221
Lusaka
Telefax:
222440
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /9/
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works
for:
(a) Large                 3,700,000       100% of foreign
Sub-projects                          expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(b) Other Sub-            3,OO,000       100% of foreign
projects                              expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(c) Self-help             1,500,000       80% of sub-project
Sub-projects                          cost
(2) Goods for                 1,500,000        100% of foreign
Sub-projects                              expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(3) Social Services           1,500,000        90% of sub-project
Sub-projects                              cost
(4) Consultants'                500,000        100%
Services and
studies


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(5) Vehicles and                200,000        100% of foreign
Equipment                                 expenditures
(6) Operating Costs             300,000        85%
of MPU
(7) Refunding of Project        300,000        Amount due pur-
Preparation Advance                        suant to Section
2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(7) Unallocated                1,500,000
TOTAL                14,800,000
2.    For the purpose of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "Operating Costs" means incremental costs for
strengthening MPU and shall include costs associated with the
maintenance of vehicles and equipment, and staff travel.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) payments
made for expenditures under Category (1) (a) unless the Association
has reviewed and found acceptable the sub-project proposal prior to
the signing of the respective Sub-project Agreement.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to fund
community initiatives to help protect the poor during the imple-
mentation of structural adjustment programs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve .uch objectives:
Part A:     Sub-projects
Financing and carrying out Sub-projects in health, nutrition,
education and economic infrastructure.
Part B:     Analysis and Monitoring
Survey
1.    Carrying out surveys, including household surveys, modules of
an agricultural census, and other surveys related to social issues.
2.    Provision of vehicles, computers and other equipment for
collection and analyzing information.
3.    Training of planning staff in economic analysis and computer
use.
Studies
4.    Carrying  out   the  following  studies:   (a)  Beneficiary
Assessment, (b) Poverty Analysis, (c) Price Mechanism Study,
(d) Household Food Security under Structural Adjustment and
(e) Vulnerability of Women under Structural Adjustment.
5.    Establishment of a Study Fund to support a broad range of
studies on poverty.
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 1997.


﻿-14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Zambia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of betwoen $30,000 and $100,000 per contract, and
contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of less
than $250,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Civil works and items or groups of items for goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or less per contract, may be


﻿- 15 -
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers or contractors
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, and each contract for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected


﻿- 16 -
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, in carrying
out Part A of the Project, MPU will adopt the following guidelines:
Eligibility of Sub-projects
1.    To be eligible for financing under the Credit, Sub-projects
must meet the following criteria:
(a)   have substantial community contribution;
(b)   be simple enough to be implemented without significant
technical assistance from outside the community; and
(c)   beneficiaries must be poor or belong to vulnerable
groups.
Sub-projects
2.    Sub-projects in the following areas will be eligible for
financing under the Credit:
A.    Health and Nutrition
(i)   expansion, repair   and   a  limited  number   of  new
construction of health posts;
(ii)   community child care programs;
(iii)   assistance in food production;
(iv)   development of weaning foods;
(v)   supplemental feeding schemes; and
(vi)   water supply and sanitation schemes (standpipes, wells,
bore holes, drainage ditches and pit latrines).
B.    Education and Training
(i)   rehabilitation, expansion and a limited number of new
construction of primary and secondary schools; and


﻿- 18 -
(ii)   training in skills development.
C.    Economic Infrastructure
(i)   construction, upgrading and rehabilitation of feeder
roads, bridges, drainage works, small irrigation schemes
and market places; and
(ii)   supporting NGO credit schemes.
Sub-project Cycle
3.    In carrying out the Project, MPU will adopt the following
procedures in processing sub-projects:
(a)   Each beneficiary community will establish a Project
Committee   (PC)  which  will   be  responsible   for  sub-project
implementation. The PC will submit proposals for sub-projects to
the District Council (DC). The proposal will include information on
the beneficiaries, a description of the sub-project with costs.
(b)   After giving its clearance on the sub-projects, the DC
will submit the proposal to the Provincial Planning Unit (PPU) which
will assess whether the sub-project was consistent with the
Provinces' priorities. If the sub-project is approved, PPU will give
a letter of commitment for staff and other recurrent costs for the
sub-project.
(c)   (i)   The cleared sub-project will then be submitted to
MPU for appraisal and evaluation. After appraisal the sub-project
proposal will be presented to the MPU Steering Committee for review
and approval; and (ii) all large sub-projects and all sub-projects
to be implemented within the first six months of Project
implementation will be submitted to the Association for approval
prior to the signing of the respective Sub-project Agreement.
Sub-Project Agreements
4.    After approval of the proposal by the MPU Steering Committee,
the Borrower shall, through MPU enter into a Sub-project Agreement
with the PC. Whenever appropriate, the DC shall sign the Sub-Project
Agreement guaranteeing the obligations of the PC. The terms of the
Sub-project Agreement shall be satisfactory to the Association and
shall include, inter alia, MPU obtaining rights adequate to protect


﻿- 19 -
the interests of the Borrower and the Association, including the
right to:
(a)   require the PC to carry out the Sub-project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)   the goods, civil works and services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit for the Self-Help Sub-projects and
Social Services Sub-projects shall be purchased at a reasonable
price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as
time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence
of the parties rendering them; and (ii) such goods and services
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the sub-project.
(c)   MPU's right to inspect, by itself or jointly with the
Association, such goods and the sites, works, plants and con-
struction included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof and
any relevant records and documents;
(d)   MPU's right to obtain all such information as MPU or
the Association shall reasonably request regarding the foregoing,
the administration, operations and financial condition of the Sub-
project and the benefits to be derived from the Sub-project;
(e)   MPU's right to suspend or terminate the right of the PC
to use the proceeds of the Credit for the Sub-project upon failure
by any such PC to perform any of its respective obligations under
the Sub-project Agreement; and
(f)   the obligation of the PC to report on the progress of
implementing the Sub-project.
5.    The Borrower shall: (a) prepare or cause MPU to prepare and,
not later than March 31, 1992, submit to the Association for review
and approval every year a report showing (i) the geographical and
sectoral distribution of Sub-projects, (ii) procurement performance,
(iii) results of monitoring activities, and (iv) a work program
(including audits and monitoring) for the following year; and (b)
put into effect the corrective actions thereof, in a manner satis-
factory to the Association, to improve targeting of resources, or
the procurement performance.


﻿- 20 -
Terms and Conditions of Sub-projects
6.    Sub-projects shall be financed on the following terms and
conditions:
(a)   financing shall be provided on a grant basis;
(b)   a mobilization advance of 20%, or such higher percentage
as the Association shall agree, of the estimated value of the Sub-
project may be paid upon signing of the Sub-project Agreement.
Subsequent payments may be made on the basis of a percentage,
acceptable to the Association, of works completed or goods procured,
and shall be evidenced by written documentation thereof. A retention
of 10% of the estimated value of the Sub-project may be paid upon
completion of the Sub-project, as evidenced by a certificate of
completion, acceptable to the Association; and
(c)   MPU shall obtain prior approval of the Association
before signing a Sub-project Agreement for any Sub-project whose
cost is expected to exceed the equivalent of $100,000.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the  term  "Authorized Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to


﻿- 22 -
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph     3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once  the total unwithdrawn amount of     the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount of   the Credit allocated    to  the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the


﻿- 23 -
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


