Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 19327
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR 14.05 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
FORA
REAL ESTATE REGISTRATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
May 26, 1999
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Country Department for Czech Republic, Hungary, Moldova, Slovak Republic and Slovenia
(ECC07)
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 1999)
Currency Unit= SIT
SIT 1 - US$0.00556
US$1 = SIT 180
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
EU            European Union
EU CAP        European Union - Common Agricultural Programme
FAO           Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FMS           Financial Management System
GCI           The Governmental Center for Informatics of the Government of Slovenia
IT/IM         Information Technology/Information Management (Strategy)
LACI          Loan Administration Change Initiative of the World Bank
MAFF          Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOJ           Ministry of Justice
PCO           Project Coordination Office
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
PMR           Project Management Report, which serves as the basis for disbursements
SC            Suprenme Court of the Republic of Slovenia
SMA           Surveying and Mapping Authority of the Republic of Slovenia
TOR           Terms of Reference
Vice President:        Johannes Linn
Country Director:         Roger Grawe
Sector Director/Sector Leader:  Kevin Cleaver! Joseph Goldberg
Team Leader:           fain Shuker



REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
REAL ESTATE REGISTRATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
3. Benefits and target population
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic
2. Financial
3. Technical
4. Institutional
5. Social
6. Environmental assessment
7. Participatory approach
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
2. Critical risks
3. Possible controversial aspects



G. Main Loan Conditions
I. Effectiveness conditions
2. Other
H. Readiness for Implementation
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
Annexes
Annex 1.     ProJect Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary, or
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5.     Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or
Fina,ncial Summary
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.    Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.     Tlhresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance



REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
REAL ESTATE REGISTRATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Country Department for Czech Republic, Hungary, Moldova, Slovak Republic and Slovenia (ECC07)
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Date: May 25, 1999                                  Team Leader: lain Shuker
Country Director: Mr. Roger Grawe                  Sector Director: Joseph Goldberg/ K. Cleaver
Project ID: SI-55304    Sector: ECSSD              Program Objective Category: Private Sector Development
Lending Instrument: SIL                            Program of Targeted Intervention:   [ ] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data              [X] Loan        [] Credit       [] Guarantee    [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (EUR million): 14.05 (US$ 15.0 million equivalent)
Proposed terms:                        []  Multicurrency     [X] Single currency, specify EUR
Grace period (years): 3          []   Standard Variable  [X] Fixed          [    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: 1% upfront
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local              Foreign           Total
Government                                                   6.4                4.3              10.7
IBRD                                                         5.6                9.4              15.0
EU PHARE                                                     0.0                3.2               3.2
Total          12.0               16.9              28.9
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Finance; Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food; Ministry of Justice; Ministry of
Environment and Physical Planning
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    2000      2001       2002     2003     2004   2005
Annual    1.4         4.7       3.4      3.0       2.0     0.5
Cumulative    1.4        6.1        9.5     12.5      14.5    15.0
Project implementation period: 5 years Expected effectiveness date: November 15, 1999
Expected closing date: June 30, 2005
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of real estate
administration systems in Slovenia. This will include improvement of the real estate registration system,
upgrading the legal framework for real estate transactions, establishment of an agricultural land use monitoring
system to meet European Union accession requirements, and designing and testing of a market-based property
tax and valuation system.
Improving the efficiency of the real estate registration system will be achieved by: a) improving the
quality of base maps in the land cadastre managed by the Surveying and Mapping Authority (SMA); b)
reducing the backlogs in the district court land book offices; c) creating a data interface between the
computerized land book systern and the cadastre; and d) developing and testing laws and procedures to allow
first time registration of 650,04)0 apartments. The project would support technical advice for improving the
legal environment for real property market development. Digital orthophotos and cadastre maps prepared by
SMA, combined with land use information from MAFF, will be used to establish the agricultural land use
monitoring system. The design and testing of an equitable and cost-effective real estate property tax and
valuation system will make use of information from the upgraded building cadastre developed by SMA.
Key Performance Indicators:
* Reduce transaction processing times for registry offices in targeted annual steps, reaching 6 working days
by December 2004;
* Increase the accuracy of the real estate registration system by reducing the discrepancy in owner names
between the registry and thle cadastre from 20% in 1998 to less the 5% by December 2004.
• Submit to Parliament appropriate laws and procedures for registration of apartments, reflecting the results
of the pilot projects by December 2002.
-  Improve the legal framework for land markets during the course of project implementation, to be
monitored through ongoing dialog with the Government on laws related to land registration, apartment
registration, mortgage, eviction and property tax.
* Install an agricultural land use monitoring system for EU CAP by December 2002.
* Design and test a property tax system in two municipalities by December 2004.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16565-SLO   Date of latest CAS discussion: May 15, 1997
The Project will diirectly support the following CAS objectives.
Development of real estate markets (CAS paragraph 24). Reducing real estate transaction costs will be
achieved by reducing backlogs at the land registry offices. Increased security of tenure, as the result of a more
secure registration system and an improved legal framework for mortgage financing, eviction and other laws
related to real estate finance will also directly contribute to developing real estate markets.
Fiscal sustainability of local government (CAS paragraph 24). A substantial portion of the revenues
from real estate taxes are to be used by local governments, thus providing local governments with a sustainable
source of revenue. The project will develop a new system of real estate taxation.



Page 3
EU Accession (CAS paragraph 49). By providing an agricultural land use monitoring system for the
country, the Project serves the purpose of developing a least-cost strategy for some of the requirements of EU
accession. The project will also help satisfy EU requirements for an efficient registration and cadastre system.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Efficient Real Estate Markets. Slovenia's real estate market is characterized by high real borrowing rates of
4.75 - 6.0 percent (nominal rates of 11.75 - 13 percent), very slow processing times for real estate
transactions, and underdeveloped mortgage and rental markets. The Government of Slovenia has been
implementing a program to develop a market based real estate system, starting with the de-nationalization of
land and property under the new Constitution in 1991. Since then there have been laws on Agricultural Lands,
Building Land, and Real Estate in Social Ownership, and the Law on the Land Register (1995). This last law
reinforced the registration of title system introduced into Slovenia in 1747 during the time of the Austro-
Hungarian Empire. Under this system, property rights are not secure until registered in this land registration
system. The Law on Cadastre (1976) is currently under revision. The major constraints facing the
development of real estate markets today, are the slow processing times for registration of titles, the quality of
information in the registry and cadastre, cumbersome procedures for registration of apartments, and an
inadequate legal framework for supporting the financial transactions in real estate. This project is the first of
two projects planned by the Government to address these issues. The second proposed project is the Housing
Finance Project.
European Union Standards for Land Management. The Government of Slovenia has set a goal of EU
accession by 2003. One of the requirements of EU accession is an improved land administration system with
the objective to have real estate more freely traded by citizens of the EU. It also means a requirement for an
efficient land use monitoring system necessary for participation in the European Union's Common Agriculture
Programme (EU CAP), and other programs. This project will upgrade the title registration and mapping
system to EU standards, and speed up the implementation of the land use monitoring system to ensure
completion over the next three years.
Efficient and Equitable Property Tax System. The current system of property taxes is complex, dependent
on outdated norms for valuation and is inequitable, due to uneven coverage of the property register. The
government has adopted a strategy of first developing a mass appraisal methodology and updating the building
register in order to get a more complete coverage of taxable properties. Following the initial mass valuation of
properties, the Ministry of Finance will move to a market based system of valuation. This project will fund the
development of such a system and pilot its use in two districts.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Land Registration System. In comparison with many countries in the ECA region, Slovenia has an advanced
European land administration system. It has a two part land registration system, a decentralized legal rights
and title part managed by the Supreme Court in 44 county court offices, and a cadastre part, which identifies
the parcels and is operated in 46 district cadastral offices by the SMA within the Ministry of Environment and
Physical Planning. Mapping information is an essential part of the legal definition of ownership rights under
Slovene law. The legal part of the registration system, with about 130,000 transactions annually, is a
registration of title system based on the Austro-Hungarian land book model. Registration is manual, with
entries made in pen in large volumes. There are backlogs in offices ranging from 3 months to 18 months.
Over time, there have been a total of 5 million entries in the books. On the other hand, an estimated 650,000
apartments are outside this system, and are unable to be registered due to problems with recognition of
common property within apartment blocks, the boundaries of land parcels associated with apartment blocks
and other legal and technical issues. In an attempt to address some of these problems, the Supreme Court is to
computerize its land book system, with the first stage roll-out date planned for September/October 1999.
The SMA operates the cadastral system for 5 million parcels mapped onto over 20,000 paper maps in
2,700 disconnected local coordinate systems. The SMA undertakes cadastral map maintenance and facilitates



Page 4
private sector surveyors to conduct subdivisions under contract. The maps are in at least 8 separate scales and
use local coordinate systems, which means that most maps do not fit with neighboring maps. It has developed
methodologies to transform the maps and has to-date digitized 20% of them. The SMA has an alpha-numeric
database of all parcels with owner names collected from the Supreme Court. It has been estimated that the
names in the land register do not match the names in Cadastre database in about 20 percent of the cases.
Further, the parcel descriptions are not matching in about 5 percent of cases.
The linkages between the two parts of the registration system have been poor in the past. In the last
year, due to the discussions related to the preparation and appraisal for this project, informal contacts at the
professional level have started to produce results. Formal arrangements for coordination between agencies
have also been initiated, and will be a major area of focus during the implementation of this project. This
includes an information management and technology framework agreement between agencies involved in the
project, and a cost recovery strategy for the land registration system, including the land registry and the
cadastre, which will allow it to recover costs from revenue generating users of its information.
The two agencies responsible for land registration need to improve and provide better service. Both
started programs to modernize records and systems 5 years ago. Further, both realize that improvements must
be made, and that they must become client-focused. The Supreme Court has agreed to adopt improved
performance standards for registration transactions, reducing the processing time from 6-18 months in some
offices to a uniform performance standard of 6 days during the term of the project. In the longer term, both
agencies have agreed that they must integrate their data bases. They are already working on data management
principles and agreeing which agency will be responsible for which data elements and their up-dating and data
entry. They realize, in the mid term, that the registration processes will have to be re-engineered to match the
new technologies and new linkages with which to support transactions professionals (e.g., notaries, brokers),
and other users.
The project would improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the existing real estate registration
system, by financing the improvement of cadastral maps, improving the computerized links between the land
cadastre and the land registry, directly funding the reduction of backlogs in registry offices and developing the
methodology for efficient registration of apartments.
Legal Framework for Real Estate Markets. The central legal problem in real estate finance in Slovenia is
the inability for the financial sector to engage in true secured lending, that is, lending where a real asset serves
as collateral for loan repayment. For an asset to serve as collateral, it must be possible, as a last resort, for the
lender to have swift and sure access to ownership of the asset upon non-payment by the borrower. Effective
foreclosure and eviction procedures, a sound registration system, and mortgage banking regulations are
required for the emergence of efficient mortgage finance for real estate.
In the absence of effecltive legal support for housing finance, lenders can only make, effectively,
unsecured loans with ultimate iecourse limited to wage garnishment, third party guarantees, and other
secondary collateral as repayment. Under these conditions, lenders will only make smaller loans to higher
income groups and on worse financial terms than would otherwise be available with stronger protection. As a
result, development of the financial system will be stunted, both supply and demand for financial services will
be reduced, and lower income glroups will continue to be unnecessarily deprived of credit, and of land and
home ownership.
This project will provide financing to support legal framework development related to real estate
markets including, (1) real property registration, (2) improved housing finance, mortgage, foreclosure and
eviction laws, and (3) equitable property tax laws.
Agricultural Land Use Monitoring System. The government of Slovenia has set a goal of becoming a
member of EU by 2003. One of the requirements of meeting this objective is that Slovenia establish an
agricultural land use monitoring system that meets the requirements of the EU CAP. Under this program the
Government of Slovenia is required to monitor land use of individual farmers participating in the program.



Page 5
For some crops, such as grapes for wine production, the annual coverage of the monitoring program is 100%,
for others it is done on a sample basis. The MAFF will make use of the improved orthophoto maps and
cadastral maps developed by the SMA as part of the land cadastre, to provide links between land parcels and
individual farmers, and to estimate of area of individual land parcels. The MAFF would add information to the
base maps through interpretation of the photo images, ground truthing, and farmer surveys. The MAFF has
elected to use orthophoto maps at a scale 1:5,000 for base mapping because of the small size of many of the
land parcels. Following the initial development of the base mapping and interpretation of land use from
orthophoto maps, the project will support the use of sampling to review the farmers' declarations and update
land use information. The goal of this project is to achieve country wide coverage of the land use monitoring
system by the end of 2002. The methodology proposed by the project is in common usage in current EU
countries and meets EU CAP requirements.
Establishment of a Property Tax System. Existing real estate taxes are allocated 100% to local budgets,
generating around 14% of local government revenues. They include taxes on immovable property, charges for
the use of building ground, transfer taxes, and inheritance and gift taxes. The tax on immovable
property/buildings is assessed on the basis of a points system, including several, primarily building cost
related, factors. The law exempts the great majority of real estate from liability' The building land use tax is
based on very low assessments of rental value. Agricultural income taxesi are based on low cadastral values.
At present there is no agricultural land tax.
There are proposals for the revision of the real estate taxation system, which include the development
of a new law over the next two years. This proposed law moves from the points system for valuing land and
buildings to market value, assessed using mass appraisal techniques. It would also significantly reduce the
existing large numbers of exemptions. The new law would also include taxation of agricultural land based on
market value.
Success will depend on adequate definition of resource requirements, methodologies, implementation
plans, transitional proposals, and the other necessary preparation to facilitate the phasing in of a potentially
contentious tax. The tax will be conceptually new and will represent a new liability for the large majority of
taxpayers. This project would assist the design, piloting and transition to a more equitable market based real
estate taxation system. The design of the mass evaluation system would make use of mapping information and
the building cadastre being supported under the project and implemented by the SMA.
In 1994, only 50,000 buildings were taxed. There were around 650,000 dwelling units (1991), 68,000 enterprises and 60,000 craft
establishments (1994).
2 These are income taxes and are therefore divided between central (70%) and local (30%) government.



Page 6
C: Project Description Sumrrmary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):):
Component                                  Category   Indicative   % of  Bank            % of Bank
Costs)    Total  Financing     Financing
US$M              (US$M)
A. Land and Building Cadastre. Prepare    Policy          13.2      45         6.3       47
orthophoto maps, improve cadastral maps,  Physical,
install computer linkages to the land registry,  and
and set up a buildings register.         Institution
Building,
B. Land Register. Remove baoklogs in land  Policy         3.9        13         1.2      32
registry offices, assist in computerization of   Physical,
the register, install computer linkages to the    and
cadastre, and improve registration procedures. Institution
Building
C. Apartment Registration Development.   Policy           2.8        10        1.5       54
Design and trial of an apartmenl; registration    Physical,
system including several pilot projects.  and
Institution
Building
D. Agriculture Land Use Morkitoring.     Physical,        3.1       11          1.7      54
Complete development of a land use       and
monitoring system for EU CAP, thus       Institution
supporting Slovenia's accession to EU.   Building
E. Real Estate Tax and Valuation System    Policy         2.3        8          1.2      54
Development. Develop a real estate property  Physical,
tax and valuation system and test in two  and
municipalities.                          Institution
Building
F. Housing Finance and Mortgage Reform. Policy            0.2        1         0.1       54
Improve the legal framework for housing  and
finance, including mortgage system reform.    Institution
Building
G. Legal Framework for Property          Policy           0.2        1         0.1       54
Ownership. Improve the legal framework for and
property ownership and registraition.    Institution
Building
H. Project Coordination Support and      Project          3.0        10        2.7       92
Strategic Studies. Coordinate P'roject,  Management
develop an IT/IM strategy and a cost recovery  and
strategy.                                Institution
Building
I. Front End Fee                                          0.2        1          0.2      100
Total    28.9      100        15.0      52
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Service Performance Standards for Registration. Govemment and the private sector have stressed
the need to address the backlogs in the land registry offices. In order to ensure further improvements in
performance standards at the land registry, the President of the Supreme Court agreed, in a letter to the Bank,
to introduce service performance standards for the land registry that would reduce the maximum processing
time (measured in business days) for registering an undisputed transfer of title as follows: By December 31,



Page 7
2000 - 90 days; June 30, 2001 - 50 days; December 31, 2001 - 20 days; December 31, 2002 - 15 days;
December 31, 2003 - 10 days; Dec 31, 2004 - 6 days.
Information Management and Technology Framework Agreement. Government has agreed to
develop and implement an information technology/information management (IT/IM) strategy for all agencies
involved in the project. This strategy development and implementation is critical, as there are at least 4
agencies (SMA, SC, MOF, MAFF) all of which could potentially, without this agreement, develop
independently their own IT/IM data standards and systems. The Governmental Center for Informatics of the
Government of Slovenia (GCI) and the Supreme Court Informatics Department will be responsible for
coordinating this effort. During Negotiations the Government agreed to develop and implement an
information technology/information management (IT/IM) strategy, acceptable to the Bank, for the agencies in
the Real Estate Registration Modernization Project andfor users and suppliers of land and building cadastre
information. A draft strategy would be submitted to the Bank on June 30, 2000 and the strategy would be
implemented by June 30, 2001.
Government Procedures for Title Registration. The Government has identified the need for
improved linkages between the SMA and the Supreme Court systems, including legal, technical,
administrative, data base management, and funding. During Negotiations the Government agreed to develop
procedures, acceptable to the Bank, delineating the respective responsibilities of the SA1 and the Court
system in the title registration system by June 30, 2000.
Cost Recovery Strategy for SMA and Supreme Court. The Land and Building Cadastre developed
and implemented under this project and the land register could potentially have multiple public and private
applications, for which Government agencies, private companies, and individuals are willing to pay.
Experience in other countries has demonstrated that the level of cost recovery from such applications can be
very high. As a result, the project will support the development of a cost recovery strategy for the land
registration system, including both the land register and cadastre systems fees, with the view of deriving afee
level that accords with the levels of service provided. An external review group of users would be established
to discuss the strategy. During Negotiations, the Government agreed to complete the strategy by June 30,
2001, and to implement its recommendations by June 30, 2002.
Property Tax Law. Government has agreed to review laws and regulations which serve as the basis of
an effective real property tax system, clearly defining the responsibilities of the Ministry of Finance and SMA.
During Negotiations the Government agreed to present the draft Property Tax Law to the Bankfor review by
June 30, 2002 and submit it to Parliament by December 31, 2002.
Procedures for Apartment Registration. During negotiations, the Government agreed to review and
amend the relevant laws or procedures that would allow the registration of individual apartments, without the
need to register all apartments in the building, by December 31, 2002.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits. The primary benefits of a secure land record and transaction system are: i) increased security of
tenure; ii) reduced cost of real estate transactions; and iii) increased availability of real estate financing. In the
case of Slovenia, the primary benefit from upgrading the system will be the reduction in transactions cost
associated with the existing system. At present, there are delays as long as 18 months in some County Court
registration offices, most of the 650,000 apartments in the country have never been registered and are still
difficult to register. The poor quality of the cadastral mapping system make registration transactions difficult
to check and prone to recording errors. This inefficient system, together with the inadequate legal framework
for real estate market development result in real borrowing rates for mortgages that are 5.5 to 7.5 percentage
points above the rate for Government bonds (the risk free rate), compared to UK, Denmark, Germany and
France that have spreads over the risk free rate ranging from 1.2 to 1.5 percent. Implementing a more efficient
and secure system, together with changes in the housing finance system, will reduce these spreads.



Page 8
In addition to the direct benefits of reduced mortgage rates and transactions costs, there are a number
of indirect benefits that are likely to result from the project. Reduced mortgage rates will result in increased
overall economic activity due to a more liquid property market, increased housing construction, and land
consolidation in farming areas. It would also result in the social benefits of more affordable housing.
Increased security of tenure would provide one of the necessary conditions for increased direct foreign
investment, an expansion of rent:al markets for real estate, and an increase in the overall level of mortgage
lending. It would also reduce the risk faced by the overall banking system of providing unsecured housing
finance. Improved information systems will result in increased quality of information and increased
information access by land holders/users, land professionals, and government. The magnitude of these indirect
benefits are expected to be substantially higher than the direct benefits described above.
The Target Population. The expected reduction in mortgage rates and other transactions costs for real estate
would potentially benefit all land holders and owners, and is expected to have a larger impact on those in lower
income brackets who currently have no access to affordable real estate financing. Apartment owners are
expected to receive direct benefits from the project as a result of the program specifically targeted at the first
time registration of apartments. Farmers wishing to consolidate highly fragmented farmland (the average
farmer currently has 35 parcels) would also benefit from a more efficient registration system. The Agricultural
Land Use monitoring system will directly benefit farmers who will participate in the EU CAP program. The
property tax system is expected to be more equitable and comprehensive than the existing system, thus
benefiting the population as a wlhole. Most of the revenues collected from the property tax system' will be
retained by local governments, thus benefiting local communities. Other beneficiaries would be the users of
real estate data and cadastral maps, which as a result of the project, would be available rapidly and in digital
format.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
A Program Council was established by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under Resolution
No. 460-11/98-1 (N) on October 1, 1998, which also authorizes the preparation of a "Program for the
Implementation of the Modernization of the Keeping of Records of Real Estate." The Program Council is
headed by the MEPP, and comprised of representatives of the: MEPP; MOJ; Supreme Court; MAFF; MOF;
the Statistical Office of the Government of Slovenia; GCI; and SMA.
Table showing implementation responsibilities
Project Component                           Implementing Agency
A. Land and Building Cadastre                 SMA
B. Land Register                              SC supported by SMA
C. Apartment Registration Development         SMA supported by MOJ
D. Agriculture Land Use Monitoring.           MAFF
E. Real Estate Tax and Valuation System      MOF
Development
F. Housing Finance and Mortgage Reform        MOF
G. Legal Framework for Property Ownership    MOJ
H. Project Coordination Support               SMA
The Program Council would review and approve the annual work plans and the proposed annual
budget and provide policy guidance and decisions. A Project Coordination Office (PCO) within the SMA
would prepare the annual work plan and budget and serve as the secretariat to the Program Council for this
project. It would undertake the development of a procurement plan and would assist the implementing
ministries for each component with procurement. It would assist the MOF to keep project accounts in
compliance with LACI. It would also undertake monitoring and evaluation reporting and coordinate quality
control for each component. For each project component, there would be an "Project Component Team", each
with their respective head of sub-project, responsible for the implementation of each of the tasks as
appropriate.



Page 9
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
One of the strategy options proposed by the Bank appraisal team was the formation of a single system
for real estate registration, where the registration and mapping functions of the registry are managed by one
agency, rather than the two agency system selected for this project. However, for the Government of Slovenia,
with a 250 year history in title registration originating from the Austro-Hungarian Empire, this was not a
politically feasible option. Furthermore, the SMA has adopted the European cadastre model, which is now
firmly entrenched in the country and the region.
Registration fees for the title registry are 0.5 percent of the value of the property transacted. This is
considerably higher than the international standard for registration fees. The Bank appraisal team considered
recommending that the registration fee be reduced over time. However, since the funds generated from these
fees are critical to the system upgrading that is planned over the next five years and the current fee structure
does not appear to be a major impediment to registration, it is considered expedient that the current fee
structure remain in place.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
Sector issue                     Project           Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Progress (IP)   Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed
(i) Geographic information systems for   Slovenia: Environment       S              S
environmental protection, real estate  Fund SAR No. 14978,
management and physical planning     5/1/96
(ii) Housing Finance Reform          Proposed Housing Finance       NA             NA
Project in FY 2000
Other development agencies
EU Phare    (planned to start in Sept   Modernization of Real  Appraisal
99 for 2 years- 3 Million ECU)       Estate Records            completed and
Management                agencies have
agreed
FAO Rural land valuation project     Improvement of the Rural   Phase II On
(1996- 99)                           Land Valuation System     hold - waiting
for direction
from this
project.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 10
This Project is the first of two proposed loans to Slovenia from the Bank, to assist in the development
of the property and housing market in Slovenia. Once the fundamental infrastructural, legal and institutional
issues addressed by this Project are in place, the proposed Housing Finance Project would follow, by providing
support to the housing finance system.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Previous experience from real estate registration projects (as reported in a Bankwide survey (OED
1992 and from ECA experience to-date) indicates that such projects should have a strong focus on land
administration objectives rather than just be a component included in a general development project. Further,
there should be a solid commitment from government, and the institutional framework should be simple. As
much as feasible, these lessons have been included in the project design.
This proposed Project is a stand alone real estate registration project. However, it does have a
complex institutional arrangement, based on the European model for title registration which separates the
institutional arrangements for registration and mapping. This institutional structure has a long history in
Slovenia and is unlikely to be changed. To reduce the risk of institutional failure in project implementation,
the design of this proposed Project would require the preparation of an information technology strategy and
interagency service agreements to ensure coordination. Indeed, a specific sub-component supports the
development of a data interface between the Cadastre and other user systems (See Annex ), and is explicitly
aimed at physically interconnecting the Cadastre, the court registry offices, and other systems.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
On October 1, 1998 the Government resolved to further its real estate market support started in 1991, by
adopting a Modernization of Re al Estate records improvement program in the MOF, MAFF, SMA, MOJ, and
others. This gave these Ministries approval to prepare the project for the Bank and EU PHARE support. Also
on October 1, 1998, the Government established an inter-ministerial Program Council to guide the preparation
and implementation of the project at the suggestion of the Bank. This Council has managed the preparation of
this project, submitting on schedule, January 15, 1999, a project preparation document. An updated version,
based on the recommendations of the pre-appraisal mission, was submitted to the Bank on April 12, 1999.
These documents represent a considerable effort by the Government, especially in the areas of institutional
coordination and policy responsse.
As a result of recommendations made during the pre-appraisal mission in February 1999, the
Government has committed to changing the registration law to allow more rapid registration of apartments.
The Supreme Court has agreed to a schedule that would reduced the processing time for registration of real
estate transactions to 6 days over the five year period of the project, also representing a firm commitment to
the objectives of the project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project.
The World Bank has extensive experience in land cadastre and administration projects. There are
about 30 projects with land privatization and registration activities in the Bank's active portfolio. The Bank's
project team has personally brought much of this experience to bear in assisting in the formulation of this
project.
Development in land administration requires careful strategic analysis and planning. The World Bank
has a well-respected track recorl for facilitating such strategic work in ECA. Land administration also impacts
on other sectors, many of which the Bank assistance is addressing through separate policy and project work.
The development of a fair and efficient land administration system involves a long-term commitment.
The Thailand country team and project team, for instance, are preparing the Fourth Land Titling Project, which



Page II
will complete a process that started about 17 years ago. The World Bank, as an international financial
organization, can sustain such a long-term commitment.
World Bank assistance is not tied to one model or technology, which can be a problem of bilateral
assistance. The Bank has made and will continue to make, its best objective recommendations on both
organization and technology and the Government has been and will continue to be, free to select the most
appropriate designs for local conditions.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$    million; ERR=   % []Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[X] Other (An analysis of the potential benefits of a more efficient land market)
The Government has requested assistance under this Project as it requires additional capital, over and
above that available in the budget, to implement this ambitious program within a short time period. The need
for a rapid implementation of the program is driven by the high opportunity cost of an inefficient land and
property market, and its consequences for economic growth. There is also a need to improve land information
systems to comply with EU accession requirements over the next two or three years. The economic benefits of
the project are expected to be high and the project is expected to be fiscally neutral in the long run as a result of
increased registration fee revenue from increased transactions volumes and increased property tax revenue
from the new property tax system.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
Fiscal impact:
Real estate registration offices already generate sufficient revenues for the government
through registration fees and transfer taxes to cover the cost of operations and investments. As the system
becomes more efficient and the increased volume of transactions leads to economies of scale, registration fees
could be reduced while still covering the costs of operation. The Supreme Court is currently permitted to retain
10 percent of their revenues for systems development and testing of new techniques, and is likely to continue
with this practice. Funds expended under this project for the removal of backlogs in the County Court
registration offices will be recovered through registration fees, resulting in no net fiscal outlay for the
Government over the period of the loan.
The design and implementation of a market based property tax system, will result in significant revenues
to the government, and particularly to local governments over time. It is not possible to estimate the net
increase in property tax revenues as a result of the new property tax system, because it will only be designed
and tested during project implementation, and collections will depend on many factors. However, it is
expected that the Ministry of Finance would ensure that the incremental cost of this component would be
covered through future tax collections.
Funding for other components of the project will be borne directly by the budget, as a long term
investment in public infrastructure. However, a number of measures will be taken under the project to
encourage cost recovery by the SMA and Supreme Court in the longer run. The SMA already has some cost
sharing arrangements with local governments and other ministries which cover about 15 percent of its costs.
SMA relies on the central government budget for the remaining 85 percent of its funds. Experience in other
countries in Europe shows that a cadastre agency can recover a substantial portion of its cost from users. The
project will finance the development of a cost recovery strategy by SMA and Supreme Court to reduce their
dependence on direct budgetary allocations. The project would also require the formalization of service
agreements between government agencies to ensure better allocation of budgetary resources on land
registration and cadastre services.



Page 12
Over the period of the loan, it is expected that increased government revenues from fees and taxes as a
result of the project will more 1Lhan cover the overall cost of the project.
3. Technical:
The technical solutions proposed in this project for upgrading the registration system and cadastre are
standard for OECD countries and are already in use Slovenia. All of the systems development, surveying,
mapping and data entry are currently contracted out to private sector companies through competitive
procedures. A review of the private sector contractors in Slovenia during pre-appraisal showed that most of
these companies could meet the international technical standards required by the Bank.
The government agencies responsible for implementation are reasonably equipped with computers and
software and staff to manage and monitor the work of contractors to be hired under the project. In cases where
there is a shortage of equipment or personnel, these would be purchased or contracted, respectively, under the
project. One exception to this is the Supreme Court informatics department, which currently has very few
computers and requires additional computer equipment and software for county court registration offices. The
Supreme Court expects to receive computer equipment and technical assistance from an EU PHARE project in
the second half of 1999. The computerization of the registration system is so fundamental to the success of
this project that, it the EU funding is not available on time, and the Government cannot find alternative sources
of funding, the Bank may need to consider reallocating funds within the project from lower priority activities
or provide additional funds uncler the Loan to compensate for this shortfall.
4. Institutional.
a. Institutions: The project willl be implemented by existing agencies. Surveying and Mapping Authority
within the Ministry of Environment and Physical Planning, has highly skilled management and staff, sufficient
equipment and facilities, and operating budget to satisfactorily manage the land and building cadastre
component, the apartment registration component, and provide an overall coordination role for the project.
The Ministry of Justice, and Supreme Court, which is responsible for the removal of backlogs in County Court
offices, has skilled technical staff who are currently implementing the computerization of the title registration
system. The title registration system has been in place since 1747, providing considerable institutional
experience. The MAFF will be responsible for implementation of the Land Use Monitoring component. It
will contract out most of the work under this component to private contractors. The Ministry has already
successfully implemented the start-up of this component, and has well qualified staff to monitor the work of
contractors. The Directorate of Taxes, Ministry of Finance appears to be understaffed, due to the difficulty of
retaining qualified staff. In order to address this problem, a full time consultant will be hired to work in the
Ministry of Finance to implement the Property Tax component. Ministry of Finance would also be responsible
for implementation of the Mortgage and Housing Finance Component. Ministry of Justice would be
responsible for coordination of the Legal framework for property ownership Component since it includes
reforms to laws that fall under its jurisdiction.
The Bank and EU PHARE will continue to cooperate on the implementation of this project, in order to
ensure that the proposed parallel financing of this project is effective.



Page 13
b. Project Management and Financial Reporting Arrangements. Project management arrangements and
project management reporting (PMR) system as required by the Bank under the Loan Administration Change
Initiative (LACI) have been agreed with the borrower. The overall co-ordination of the project would rest with
the Program Council that was established by a Government Decision on October 1, 1998. In order to facilitate
the smooth implementation of the project, a project coordination office (PCO) would be established under the
SMA. Details of the PMR and Special Account arrangements are recorded in the Project Implementation Plan
(PIP). A project manager has been appointed. A Project Coordination Office will be established with a
Project Administration Officer and at least three core staff (procurement officer, financial officer, and
administration officer) appointed by Loan Effectiveness. A TOR and shortlist of accounting companies has
been submitted to the Bank and an auditor for the project will be appointed before loan effectiveness.
5. Social
Access to Mortgage Credit. At present over half the population are living in apartments which have never
been registered, and are difficult to register under the current registration procedures. This inability to register
has a negative impact on apartment owners access to mortgage financing. It has a more significant effect on
the lower income groups who are less able to overcome the barriers to registration and have fewer alternative
sources of collateral. By simplifying apartment registration procedures and reducing the cost of real estate
transactions, this project will increase the access of lower income groups to mortgage credit.
Eviction. Under the Execution Law (both currently and as proposed in a new draft law) a residential tenant
can only be evicted if the landlord provides an "adequate" replacement unit. However, each individual is also
guaranteed the right to housing under the Slovenian Constitution and the 1991 Housing Law. This second law
relieves, to some degree, the landlords requirement to provide a replacement unit and shifts the bulk of the
eviction risk to the state. Once an eviction is ordered, a tenant is, in the eyes of the law, homeless. This
triggers the tenant's right to state guaranteed housing. Should the tenant's income be low enough to qualify
him for social or non-profit housing, the state is required to provide it. However, waiting lists for such housing
are currently three to four years long (depending on the geographic region). In such an event, the current
landlord (with the right to evict) may present his eviction order to the state and receive payment of the
difference between the rent which the tenant would be required to pay in social or non-profit housing and the
"nmarket" rent of his unit (he also may then claim against the tenant for the social or non-profit portion of the
rent). Since most tenants fall into arrears because of loss of income, this rent subsidy result is the most likely
scenario. It is unclear what happens to a tenant who has the ability to pay (and therefore does not qualify for
state housing) but simply refuses to do so. Presumably, this is a situation in which an actual eviction may take
place.
Gender. Both genders have equal assess to the real estate registry. There are no requirements in the
inheritance law of the country that would result in a bias against women inheriting, owning, or transacting
property.
Monitoring of Social Issues. Since there are not expected to be an negative social impacts of this project, a
full social assessment was not carried out as part of project preparation. During Negotiations it was agreed that
a social assessment specialist from the Bank would monitor the social impacts of the project in cooperation
with Social Council of the Ministry of Work, Family and Social Affairs as part of project supervision. It was
also agreed that a social assessment of the housing sector would be carried out as part of the proposed Housing
Finance Project due to begin preparation in September 1999.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category      []A   []B    [X] C
Justification/Rationale for category rating: The environmental impact of the project is expected to be positive.
The upgrading of the title registry itself will be environmentally neutral, but the new digital orthophoto maps
and cadastral maps resulting from the upgrading of the cadastre will make available improved information for
environmental monitoring purposes. The agricultural land use monitoring component of the project will
encourage agricultural land use practices that are in compliance with EU environmental standards.



Page 14
7. Participatory approach:
A workshop on housing finance was held in November 1998 in Slovenia, co-hosted by the Bank and
the Government of Slovenia. It was attended by bankers, lawyers, academics, notaries, and staff from the key
government agencies. The workshop was an important forum for the private sector participants to express
their views on the commercial costs of having an inefficient title registration and housing finance system. This
raised the awareness amongst government officials of the enormous economic costs of these problems, and
resulted in design changes to the project. More workshops for civil society, representatives of home owner
associations, lawyers and banks to discuss new laws and procedures will be funded by the project during
implementation. Surveys of participants will be conducted during the piloting of the property tax system.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This project is a one time investment to upgrade the title registration system, the cadastre system, land
use monitoring system, and property tax system. The Government is currently financing the ongoing operation
of the existing systems, and it is fully expected that they would continue to do so. Full cost recovery is being
achieved in the land registry offices, and the project would assist SMA and the Supreme Court to develop
improved cost recovery strategy.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                      Risk Rating  Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Supreme Court/MOJ makes necessary investments  M           Ensure that all critical tasks are
in the computerization of registries and makes full        done with or without funding
use of digital map technology.                             from this project or EU PHARE.
This risk is mitigated by the
existence of the Project Council
with MOJ/ SC representation.
European Union PHARE Funding for SMA and     M             Availability of EU PHARE
Supreme Court is approved, and equipment                   funding is a condition for
installed,                                                 continued disbursement for this
loan. The Bank may consider
restructuring this loan if EU
PHARE funds are not available
on schedule.
Parliament approves appropriate changes to the  M          Workshops and seminars will be
legal framework for real property markets.                 held to discuss proposals and
options with legislators and
others.
Apartment owner interest in using new registration  N      New procedures will be
procedures.                                                publicized.
Property tax law put in place with Government  M           Provision of technical support
commitment to making it work.                              during implementation - e.g., a
draft property tax bill is already
under discussion.



Page 15
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
A. I Good coordination between agencies.     N             Project Council has been
established to ensure good
coordination. Memoranda of
understanding to be prepared
between implementing agencies.
Technology agreement to be
signed between agencies.
A.2. Selection of appropriate contractors.   N             ICB selection and close
monitoring of contracts
B. 1. Computerization of land registry is completed  S     Close monitoring and a fallback
on schedule.                                               strategy to provide funds under
this project to meet shortfalls.
B.2 Cooperation of County Courts in removing               Funding for extra staff for the
backlogs.                                                  project, and a directive from the
Supreme Court will provide the
incentives to adopt new
standards. Information will also
be provided to the County
Courts on why removal of
backlogs is important.
C. 1. Legal impediments to apartment registration   M      Changes to law will be agreed
removed and new provisions added.                          by Effectiveness.
D. 1. Selection of appropriate contractors.  M             ICB selection and close
monitoring of contracts.
E. I Parliamentary approval of the proposed new    M       Workshops and seminars will be
property tax law.                                          held to discuss proposals and
options with legislators and
others.
E.2 Willingness of selected municipalities to test   N     Participating municipalities
the new property tax system.                               would be identified a year
before planned testing of the
property tax system.
F. 1 and G. 1 Political consensus on the needed  M         Workshops and seminars will be
changes to improve the legal framework for real            held to discuss proposals and
estate markets, and parliamentary approval of              options with legislators and
recommended changes to real property related laws.         others.
H. I Management by implementation units in   S             The Program Council and PCO
agencies is satisfactory                                   to be established to coordinate
and manage satisfactory project
execution.
Overall Risk Rating M           _
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.



Page 16
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
The PCO has been established with a Project Administration Officer and core staff appointed with
qualifications, experience and iterms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
The Program Council has been authorized to coordinate the project implementation.
A financial management system that meets the conditions of the Bank has been established for the
Project.
Project implementation arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, would be entered into between MOF to
SMA, MOJ, and MAFF and SC, concerning the transfer of information between them according to their
mandates and cost recovery arrangements.
An external auditor acceptable to the Bank has been appointed to carry out the audits under the project.
A draft annual budget for the Borrower's fiscal year 2000 has been submitted to the Parliament of the
Borrower showing proposed budgetary allocations for SMA, MOF, MOJ and MAFF in respect of Project
Expenditures for fiscal year 2000.
2. Other Covenants
If the EU PHARE "Modernization of Real Estate Records Management Project" of EUR 3 million fails
to become effective with funds available to Supreme Court and SMA by effectiveness or by June 30, 2000,
whichever is later, and the Government fails to find alternative sources of funding, including from its own
sources, by this date, the Bank reserves the right to suspend disbursements under the loan. The Bank may also
agree to reallocate funds under the project to accommodate such shortfalls in funding for the modernization of
the title registry.
The Government and SM[A would agree that any security clearances required for processing maps of
Slovenia by contracted mapping companies located outside of Slovenia would be granted in a timely manner at
low transactions costs and that the security clearance process for these companies would be facilitated by
SMA. This would include the clearance of aerial photography and imagery, maps, and data files for use in
company facilities in other meniber countries of the Bank.
H. Readiness for Implemenitation
[X] This projeo.: is expected to have a relatively long period between the Board date and project effectiveness,
because the project is not expected to be ratified by the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia before
November 1999. The anticipated start date for the project is January 2, 2000, when counterpart funds will also
be available. This time will be used to issue bids and prepare contracts for the first year of the project. The
draft technical specifications for technical services required in the first year of the project activities have been
prepared. Bidding documents for the first year of the project are expected to be finalized by August 1999. The
first contracts are expected to be issued in January 2000. Draft consultant terms of reference have been
prepared and are in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). Final requests for proposals for the first year of the
project are expected to be ready by September 1999.
[XI The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
[XI The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
See Section G above.



Page 17
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X ] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Team Li          Shuker
Sector Leader: Jo          rg
Acting Country Director: Laurens Hoppenbrouwer






Page 19
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Slovenia: Real Estate Registration Modernization Project
Narrative Summary            Key Performance Indicators          Monitoring and    Critical Assumptions
Evaluation (See
pages 23-25 for
Detailed Monitoring
Indicators)
Sector-related CAS Goal:
1. Development of housing   1 Reduced margin between mortgage    Regular mission
and land markets.           rates and the govemment bond (risk   reports
2. Contribute to the        free) rate (5.5 to 7.5% in 1998).
requirements of EU          2. Increased number of real estate   M & E reports
accession.                  transactions, particularly apartments  produced by the
3. Contribute to the fiscal  (Total in 1998 is 135,000, of which it    Project
sustainability of local     is estimated that less than 1 percent  Coordination
govemment.                  were for apartments).                Office
3. EU Accession requirements for
land use monitoring under EU
Common Agriculture Policy met by
the end of 2002.
4. New property tax system tested in
two municipalities by December
2004.



Page 20
Narrative Summary            Key Performance Indicators        Monitoring and      Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Project Development                                                                   (Objective to
Objective:                                                                            Goal)
1. Reduced processing time for
Improve the efficiency and   registration of titles according to  1-2. Quarterly
effectiveness of real estate  agreed schedule (See Section C of   land registry       The
administration systems in    PAD).                               reports.             macroeconomy of
Slovenia by improving the                                                             Slovenia does not
efficiency and accuracy of   2. Reduce the discrepancy in owner   3-6. Bank           deteriorate,
the real estate registration  names between the registry and the  supervision         causing a
system, est4blishing an      cadastre from 20% in 1998 to less the    reports and M &  slowdown in the
agriculturalland use         5% by December 2004.                 E reports from      development of
monitoring system to meet                                        the PCO.             real property
EU accession requirements,   3. Introduction of appropriate laws                      markets.
and designing and testing a  and procedures for registration of
market based property tax    apartments by December 2002.                             EU accession
system.                                                                               requirements do
4. Improved legal framework for real                    not change
property markets.                                       dramatically.
5. Agricultural land use monitoring                     Local
system for EU CAP in full operation                     Municipalities
by December 2002.                                       agree to test the
proposed new
6. Real estate property tax system                      property tax
designed and tested in two                              system.
municipalities by December 2004.



Page 21
Narrative Summary            Key Performance Indicators        Monitoring and      Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Outputs:                                                                             (Outputs to
Objective)
1. Cadastral maps in a single    1.1 Complete upgraded basemaps on  PCO monitoring
coordinate system available  agreed schedule.                                         Supreme
to support the land                                                                   Court/Ministry of
registration system in digital    1.2 Complete unified cadastral                     Justice makes
format with the ability to be  mapping system by December 2004.   Supervision         necessary
disseminated nationwide.                                          missions           investments in the
1.3 Availability of on-line digital                     computerization of
cadastre maps in all county court                       registries and
registry offices by December 2004, on                   makes full use of
an agreed schedule.                  Monitoring and     digital map
evaluation         technology.
2. Complete Registration of  2.1 Complete first time registration of   contracts
buildings.                   all buildings by December 2004.                          European Union
PHARE Funding
3. Real property registry    3.1 Land registry backlogs cleared by                    for SMA and
backlogs cleared and         December 2001 (Processing standard                       Supreme Court is
performance standards met.   of 20 business days is considered to                     approved, and
be zero backlog).                                       equipment
installed.
3.2 Transaction times in land
registries reduced on annual basis                       Parliament
according to agreed schedule to                         approves
achieve a target of 6 days by                           appropriate
December 2004.                                          changes to the
legal framework
4. Laws and procedures for   4.1 Viable apartment registration                        for real property
registration of apartments   system in place proven by pilot                          markets.
tested and in place by 2003.  projects and registration of 6000
apartments by December 2004.                            Apartment owner
interest in using
5. Improved legal framework    5.1 Legal improvements achieved                        new registration
for real estate markets.     for: registration law, apartment laws,                   procedures.
mortgage laws and systems,
foreclosure that meets EU and                           Property tax law
international standards and Slovenian                   put in place with
conditions by December 2004.                            Government
commitment to
6. Agricultural land use     6.1 Implementation of land use                           making it work.
monitoring system for EU     monitoring system on agreed
CAP in full operation by the  schedule.
end of 2002.
7. Real estate property tax  7.1 Viable real estate property tax
system designed and tested.  system designed and tested in at least
two municipalities by December
2004.



Page 22
Narrative Summary                Key Performance Indicators              Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Project Components / Sub-            Inputs: (total budget for each                               (Components to
com ponents                                   component)                                          Outputs)
A. Land and Building Cadastre                $13.2 million                                       A.l Good
coordination
between agencies.
A2 Selection of
appropriate
contractors.
B. Land Register                             $3.9 million                                        B. 1
Computerization
of land registry is
completed on
schedule.
B.2 Cooperation
of County Courts
in removing
backlogs.
C. Apartment Registration                     $2.8million                                        C.1 Legal
Development                                                                                      impediments to
apartment
registration
removed and new
provisions added.
D. Agriculture Land Use                      $3.1 million                                         D.1 ICB selection
Monitoring.                                                                                       and close
monitoring of
contractors.
E. Real Estate Tax and                        $2.3 million                                        E. I Parliamentary
Valuation System Development                                                                      approval of the
proposed new
property tax law.
E.2 Willingness
of selected
municipalities to
test the new
property tax
____ ___ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___ _   __ ___ ___ _____  sy stem .



Page 23
Narrative Summary            Key Performance Indicators         Monitoring and      Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
F. Housing Finance and                  $0.2 million                                   F.1. Political
Mortgage Reform                                                                        consensus on the
needed changes to
improve the legal
framework for
mortgage finance
and Parliamentary
approval of
recommended
changes to related
laws.
G. Legal Framework for                  $0.2 million                                   GI Political
Property Ownership                                                                     consensus on the
needed changes to
improve the legal
framework for
property
ownership and
Parliamentary
approval of
recommended
changes to
property
ownership related
laws.
H. Project Coordination                 $ 3.0 million                                  G.1 Satisfactory
Support and Strategic Studies                                                          coordination
between agencies






Page 25
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
DETAILED PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Target by End of Calendar Year
2000         2001          2002           2003           2004
CAS Objectives
Reduced margin between mortgage and government bond rate.    <1            <1            <1             <1            <1
(margin in year tlmargin in year (t-l))
Increased number of real estate transactions
Individual houses and other real estate ('000 transactions)  130
Apartments ('000 transactions)                            1
EU accession requirements for land use monitoring met                                                Req. met
New Property tax system tested in two municipalities                                                                   2
(municipalities).
Project Objectives
Joint Objectives of the Land and Building Cadastre and the
Land Register
Development Objective:
Reduce discrepancy in owner names between registry and       20            18            15             10             5
cadastre (Estimated Percent of Incorrect Entries)
Output:
Availability of on-line digital cadastre maps in county court  0            5            15             30            44
offices (Cumulative Number of Offices)
Land and Building Cadastre
Outputs:                                                    200           800           1400           1700
Upgraded cadastral maps completed (Cumulative Number of
Parcels ('000))
Buildings mapped in building cadastre (Cumulative Number of  200          600           1000
Buildings Identified) ('000)



Page 26
2000         2001          2002           2003          2004
Land Register
Outpu-t
Maximum processing time for registering each undisputed     90            20            15             10            6
transfer of title. (Working Days)
Computerization of registry offices. (Cumulative Number of                5             15            30             44
Offices)
Apartment Registration Deveiopment
Output:                                                                            Submit Draft
Pilots completed and viable legal framework for apartment                            Laws or
registration in place                                                              Amendments
to Parliament
Apartments buildings registered (Cumulative Number of        2            10           100            200           300
Buildings)
Apartments registered (Cumulative Number of Apartments)     40           200          2,000          4,000         6,000
Agriculture Land Use Monitoring
Development Objective:
Agricultural land use monitoring system for EU CAP in full                           System in
operation by December 2003.                                                           Place
Output:
Land use interpretation and overlay of cadastral maps (Map  1000         2696
Sheets)
Real Estate Tax and Valuation System Development
Output:                                                                                By
Property Tax Law submitted to Parliament                                            December,
2002
Viable property tax system tested (Municipalities)                 .__                                               2



Page 27
2000         2001          2002          2003          2004
Housing Finance and Mortgage Reform
Output:                                                                            Mortgage
Improved legal framework for real estate markets.                                   law to
Parliament
Legal Framework for Property Ownership
Output:
Complete Review of Legal Framework for Property Ownership            Complete
Report
Project Coordination Support and Strategic Studies
Output:                                                 Complete       Adopt
Information management/information technology strategy    Draft      Strategy by
Strategy by    December
June 2000      2001                              ___
Cost recovery study                                                  Complete   Complete
Study by   implementati
June 2001   on by June
2002






Page 29
Annex 2
Slovenia: Real Estate Registration Modernization Project
Project Description
Component A. Land and Building Cadastre
Objective: The foundation of the proposed project is the modernization of the land and building
cadastre. The land and building cadastre is a key building block of the land registration system and will
also support the real estate property tax system and the agriculture land use monitoring system. The Land
and Building Cadastre component would complete the production of a unified consistent cadastral map
showing the individual land parcels. The result would be a land cadastre comprised of a vectorized land
cadastre map and a base map produced from the digital orthophoto images. It would also fund the
establishment of the building cadastre, which would support apartment registration component as well as
the real estate property tax component.
Background At present, Slovenia's cadastral maps are old and cumbersome to access, existing
in 2,700 independent "cadastral map commune systems" nationwide (i.e., in unrelated local coordinate
systems). The maps are at various scales, and cannot be viewed even on a town basis. As a result, they
are unsuitable for dissemination to land holders, brokers, developers, planners and other users. The maps
need to be re-compiled into a uniform system, as well as modernized, so that they may be made available
in digital format and therefore on-line. Existing errors contained in the Land Cadastre information,
estimated at 5%, could be identified with the digital version of the Land Cadastre. These recompiled
cadastral maps would also provide the key indexes and diagrams of the actual objects - parcels and other
immovable property - the subject of registration of the land register information maintained by the
Supreme Court system. Existing discrepancies between information maintained on Land Cadastre and the
information included in the Land Registry (in the Courts) would be identified and matched. The SMA
has made good progress in implementing this digital conversion process and has now completed 20% of
the total task nationwide.
The cadastral maps and the associated data base are being produced at various scales depending
on the original. Therefore, the products being produced, particularly the digital orthophoto maps, would
also support the up-dating of the national topographic maps up to the 1:5,000 scale series. While SMA
has undertaken standard line-map coverage of the whole country, the average age of these records is now
14 years old. The maps need updating to better support the overall system operation.
Description: The component consists of the following sub-components:
(i)    Aerial Survey for all of Slovenia, using aerial photography at about scale 1:17,500 over a 3 year
period as one of SMA's 3 year cycles. (100 percent national funding)
(ii)    Compilation of digital orthophoto maps at a basic scale of 1:5,000, comprising about 1,700
sheets. In mountain areas a scale of 1 :10,000 will be used, in some urban areas a scale of 1:2,000.
By January 1, 2000 over 1,400 sheets will have been completed using local funding, and therefore
this Project will complete the remaining 56% of the country in the following 2 years.
(iii)   Preparation of Digital Cadastre Maps
a) Digitization of existing land cadastre maps of different scales: 1:1440; 1:2880; 1:5760.
There are about 20,000 such maps, including 5,100,000 parcels (basic unit within the land
cadastre); that will be vectorized. As of January 1, 2000, there will be 1.7 million parcels
remaining to be completed under the project.
b) Merging of digital cadastre maps with the digital orthophoto maps. The remaining 1.7
million parcels will be scaled and matched with the digital orthophoto maps; about 3 million
parcels are already vectorized;



Page 30
c) Matching of parcel attribute data and harmonization of the cadastral commune borders.
This task involves the comparison of the graphic and attribute components of the cadastre data
and the identification, editing and correction of content errors. The second task is the
harmonization of the cadastral commune borders in order to make borders between two entities
into a single border. There are 1,100 to complete out of the total of 2,700 cadastral communes,
and this will 'involve undertaking and completing field measurements if required.
(iv)   Building Cadastre. This sub-component would, among other uses, support the development of
the real estate taxation system (by MOF), the registration of apartments (by SMA and SC), and
land use planning (by MEPP). The definition of the methodology for consolidating the
information on buildings takes into consideration the requirements of both the Ministry of
Finance and the land registration system. The Resolution 460-11/98-1(N) has charged the MEPP
(SMA) with preparing the "Programme for the Establishment of a Register of Buildings and Parts
of Buildings"'. Stereo-"models" and orthophoto maps produced under the land cadastre
sub-component will be used for an inventory and mapping of buildings. It will include the
polygon representing the footprint of the building, a unique identifier, and coordinates of the
centroid of the building. The unique identifier would provide a link with the Land Cadastre and
the Register of Spatial Units. There are an estimated 1,000,000 buildings nation-wide.
(v)    Data Interface between the Cadastre and other User Systems. This sub-component will
support the development of a data interface between the Land Cadastre, controlled by SMA, and
the Land Register, controlled by the Supreme Court. It would also fund the development of
interfaces belween the Building Cadastre and the MOF property tax system and between the Land
Cadastre the MAFF land use monitoring system. Use of Land Cadastre data in the prototype
Supreme Court registration system has already been successfully tested.
(vi)   Upgrading of Computer Systems for SMA. Upgrade the computer systems of SMA to allow
improved support to the Land Register. EU PHARE will fund this equipment, with the exception
of some equilpment for map archiving.
Ongoing Maintenance and Sustainability: The maintenance of the digital orthophoto maps is
cyclic depending on the location of the areas, and the actual estimate of changes in the area since the last
mapping date. The digital cadastral maps will be maintained at the Branch office level of SMA as a result
of subdivision, consolidation, new demarcations and registration of objects or parcels, using digital
techniques. Updates to the cadastre will take place at the time a transaction takes place. Updating
methods for the Building Cadastre are being developed and will be linked to the building approvals at the
local government level. The Ministry of Finance will refine, during the pilot projects the information they
need for their proposed real property tax system.
Implementation and Financing Arrangements: The SMA would execute this component with
support, through contracts with private sector aerial mapping, systems development, and cadastral survey
companies. This component will finance: digital orthophoto mapping; digitization of existing cadastral
maps; parcel attribute and graphics matching; cadastral commune edge matching; building location from
orthophoto analysis, and attribute information collection, including from the field; limited goods and
equipment (computer hardware, software, and network systems for digital map archive and retrieval
purposes); consultanl: services contracts (supervision, quality control, monitoring and evaluation); and
study tours and training. Upgrading of computer equipment and some technical assistance will be
provided by EU PHARE, starting in the fourth quarter of 1999.



Page 31
Component B. Land Register
Objective: The primary objective of this component would be to reduce the registration backlogs
in the 44 county court registry offices. Backlogs are currently 3 months in most offices and range from 6
months to 18 months in 5 of the busiest offices. Backlog reduction would be achieved by setting service
performance standards for all county court registration offices and hiring temporary staff to remove the
backlog in the short run. The Project would finance the immediate removal of the most serious backlogs
in the first two years of the project, reducing the maximum processing time for all district courts to 20
business days by December 30, 2001. In order to ensure that there is a long term improvement in
performance of the registry offices, legal covenants under the loan would put in place a plan to reduce the
processing time for the registration of undisputed real property transfers down to 6 working days by the
end of the project. The computerization of the registration system, funded during 1999, 2000 and 2001
under an EU PHARE project, would also help the backlog problem, and ensure that the performance
standards established under this project would be sustainable in the long run.
Background: There are two partners in the title registration system: the Supreme Court, through
their registration of legal rights at county courts, and the SMA, with its land cadastre of the parcels.
Without improvements in the performance of the title registration system in the county court registration
offices, investments in the land cadastre would not be economically justifiable. It is therefore important
to ensure that the upgrading of the land cadastre and the parallel upgrading of the registration system in
the Supreme Court and 44 County Courts are integrated and occur concurrently. Work to-date in the land
registry computerization has been funded by the State through the Ministry of Justice. Grant funding for
the Supreme Court is expected to commence in September 1999 from EU-PHARE amounting to EUR 1.2
million. The Supreme Court plan would involve the digital conversion of the Land Books in each of the
registry offices, plus the integration of information in a Supreme Court centralized database. The
database will be accessible from each of the land registry offices and by specialized users, including
notaries. Access to the database will also be available on the internet. During the implementation of the
EU support, the GOS has agreed to make changes to the legal and regulatory framework that would
support the modernization process.
The SMA has agreed to fully cooperate with the Supreme Court and its modernization program
and to identify and resolve critical technical, legal, financial, and administrative issues. The proposed
World Bank funding for this component would therefore complement the EU PHARE program; it would
provide on-going systems development through the re-engineering consultant, which would result in
registration process streamlining, as well as land records strategy development and modernization, and
training.
Description: This component would support the provision of 20 contract staff for a period of 2
years. Training would also be provided to these staff. Funds are also available for a re-engineering
expert to work with the agencies to conduct a review of land registry procedures and improve the data
interface between the Supreme Court and the SMA. Funds would also be available for policy
development, drafting and re-drafting any laws, and engineering procedures related to title registration.
Implementation and Financing Arrangements: The Supreme Court financed through the Ministry
of Justice would implement this component. The component would finance: service contracts (data entry
contracts; paper records system modernization); consultant services and technical services; computer
equipment and software for creating a data interface between county courts and the land cadastre;
consultant services (20 term contract workers to clear backlogs over a 2 year period, training of the
contract staff ), as well as a consultant to undertake the re-engineering and another to develop the paper
land records strategy develepment. Upgrading of computer equipment in the county court registration
offices and some technical assistance will be provided by EU PHARE, starting in the fourth quarter of
1999.



Page 32
Component C. Apa-tment Registration Development
Objective: This component would support the development and implementation of a viable
apartment registration system including several pilot projects and the first stage of operational support.
Remaining legal obstacles to apartment registration would be resolved, methods for surveying common
land and buildings around apartments would be developed, and systematic and sporadic methods of
registration would be tested. About 300 buildings, with about 6000 apartments, would be surveyed and
registered as part of these tests. The fee structure for the registration of apartments would also be
reviewed.
Background: Prior to 1991, apartments were not registered in the title registry system. There are
currently estimated to be at least 650,000 apartments that have never been registered. Under the current
legal framework it is difficult to register apartments because the first time registration of an apartment
requires the registration of all apartments in a building. This places an enormous burden on the first
person who wants to riegister a transaction on an apartment in a building. In very large apartment
buildings this is almost impossible. The process of apartment building registration and the individual
apartments in it requires the following steps: i) an agreement between the joint owners of the apartment
and the local municipality on the boundaries of the property; ii) a survey of the land and building by a
registered surveyor, delineating common property boundaries; and iii) registration of the land and
building and all apartments in the building. During the preparation of this loan, recommendations have
been made and options considered for simplifying this registration procedure, so that individual apartment
owners will be allowed to register transactions on apartments without the need to have all apartments
owners in the building register at the same time. This would be achieved by allowing individual
apartment owners to register their individual apartments without requiring them to register the land and
building that they owI in joint ownership with other apartment owners. This would be a temporary
solution to allow individual apartment owners to transact on apartments. However, in the medium term,
the land and buildings held in joint ownership will need to be registered as well, the methodology for
which will be tested under this project.
Description: This component would support the simplification of the legal procedures for
apartment registration by funding consultants to work on improving the legal framework for apartment
registration. This would include a review of the associated laws and regulations starting with possible
amendments to Part 5 of the Law on Land Register 1995. Once the initial bottlenecks to individual
apartment registration are addressed, the project would begin to focus on the medium-term issue of
surveying and registering property in joint ownership. For the purposes of testing the methodology for
apartment registration, the following data attributes will be considered as possible additions to the
building register: true building footprint (fundus); unique identifier of building; shape and surfaces of the
building footprint (fundus); unique identifiers of parts of buildings; and surface area of parts of buildings.
Consultants hired uncler the project would develop and test an appropriate methodology for systematically
surveying and registering apartment buildings and land. This would include consideration of, and if
necessary, implementation of, a condominium law. It would also include the first phase of pilot projects
under this proposed project amounting to about 300 buildings and 6000 apartments. The Government is
in the process of drafting laws or amendments to existing laws providing for the registration of an
individual apartment without the need to register all the apartments within the building in which it is
located.
Implementation and Funding Arrangements: SMA would implement this component working
closely with the MOJ and the Supreme Court. This project would include funding for the development
and testing of a methodology for systematic registration of apartments, including the hiring of consultants
in legal and technical areas, surveys of buildings, land, and apartments, and facilitation of registration of
apartments. The full scale implementation of the program in the long term would be funded by the
Government or by apartment owners.



Page 33
Component D. Agriculture Land Use Monitoring
Objective: This component would support the on-going development of a monitoring system for
Slovenia's future participation in the EU Common Agricultural Policy. The proposed system would
interpret land use from orthophoto maps, and make use of SMA digital cadastral maps. Each land use
polygon would be given one or more of the land use class types under an EU classification system.
Training would also be provided. The MAFF has already begun to implement this component of the
project and is expected to have completed 30 percent of the agricultural areas by January 2, 2000 - an
estimated project start-up date. The project will finance the balance of the area, which would include the
interpretation of 2120 orthophoto map sheets and their entry into the system. One land use audit,
covering 5% of the land parcels in line with EU procedures, would be supported by the project in 2002/3,
and will define the most appropriate sampling methodology to verify land use.
Background: A monitoring system would be established to support Slovenia's participation in the
CAP and other programs of the EU, which, according to the MAFF, are expected to yield more than ECU
40 million in annual receipts for Slovene farmers. It should be noted that about 120,000 farmers own
around 4.9 million rural parcels in Slovenia. Parcel sizes are as small as 2m x 6m, with many parcels of
size 5m wide x 250m long. The average parcels size is 1450 sq meters. Therefore a computer-assisted
change detection system with high resolution mapping will be necessary for agriculture land use
monitoring. Such a system could be updated in a timely manner. It is necessary to maintain current
information on agricultural land use and ownership and to update the farm information on an annual or bi-
annual basis. This component would support Slovenia's implementation of agricultural policy and
therefore help the country's accession to the EU.
The proposed methodology would interpret land use from the orthophoto maps that are being
produced by the SMA. Each parcel is identified as a unique polygon with a unique identifier and then
attributed with one or more of the land use class types defined by the MAFF. The SMA digital cadastre
maps are used here. The spatial resolution needed to reach the fourth level of classification (land by crop
type) is a determining factor in the choice of digital orthophoto images as the methodological solution.
Investigations into the use of lower cost satellite imagery for updating would be made during the project.
The methodology has been proven by the MAFF. It has already designed the methodology and
has undertaken a pilot study around Gomja and Radgona on a total area of 338 sq km (equivalent to 50
map sheets at the scale of 1:5,000) and continued in Primorska region (280 map sheets the scale of
1:5,000) in 1998. For 1999, there are 600 map sheets planned. The work was contracted, including the
development of the system solution and the actual interpretation of the orthophoto maps for the pilot
study area (all done in a digital environment).
Optimization of the production of interpreted map sheets should be made possible by the
systematic production and delivery of the digital orthophoto maps for each major agricultural area. Field
checking would be performed as necessary. Also, interpretation of adjacent sheets would be done from
images that have the same temporal resolution. The current work plan for delivery of orthophoto maps
would achieve this by programming photography in 10 contiguous areas over 3 years.
Description: The component would support land use classification of rural areas and would
amount to approximately 2120 map sheets at the scale of 1:5,000. This involves visual interpretation of
the digital orthophoto maps identifying and classifying homogeneous areas, edge matching of the various
map sheets, and field checking. Further work would be needed to overlay the layers (land use and
cadastral map) to attach land use information to each parcel, as well as to create linkages and integration
with other agricultural databases. The MAFF would be responsible for implementing this project
component and would contract most of the work to private companies. The data base is up-dated on an
annual basis with declarations from farmers. It would be checked and up-dated every 5 - 10 years. EU
CAP requires an annual 5 % random audit parcels to be checked. This would also be supported by the
Bank funds.



Page 34
This component would also support the creation and/or consolidation of the following databases:
(i) a database that would enable the implementation of the EU land use change and monitoring system
(for EU CAP purposes); (ii) creation of register and cadastre of permanent plantations such as vineyards
and orchards in order to protect the geographical origin of the agricultural products; (iii) creation of a
farm register; and (iv) creation of other registers needed to support activities such as agrarian operations
and common pastures.
Implementation and Financial Arrangements: The MAFF would implement this component. The
component would finance goods and equipment; service contracts, including information system
development, data collection and entry from interpretation of orthophoto maps, stereo models, and field
observations; and consultancy services (systems design refinement; and training).
Component E. Real Estate Tax and Valuation System Development
Objective: The purpose of the component is to develop appropriate capacity in Slovenia for the
implementation of a market value based tax on real estate. The component will build on current
initiatives supporting clevelopments in real estate valuation and taxation under the ONIX project, looking
at urban real estate taxation. It will also take into consideration the initiatives under the FAO project
developing an agricultaral income tax based on cadastral, soils and related data.
Background: Existing real estate taxes are allocated 100% to local budgets and made up about 14 percent
of local government revenues in 1997. However, in terms of national revenues, they are insignificant3.
They include taxes on immovable property, charges for the use of building ground, transfer taxes, and
inheritance and gift taxes. The tax on immovable property/buildings is assessed on the basis of a points
system, including several, primarily building cost related, factors. The law exempts the great majority of
real estate from liability.' Agricultural income taxes are based on very low cadastral values. At present
there is no agricultural land tax.
There are proposals for the revision of the real estate taxation system, with the government's plan
to submit this legislation to Parliament by December 2002. This proposed new law moves from the
points system for land and buildings to market value, assessed using mass appraisal techniques, and
significantly reduces the existing large numbers of exemptions. The new law would also include
agricultural land, with this tax liability also possibly being based on market value.
There are therefore good prospects for progress, although Government will have to have the will
to pass the legislation. Success will depend on adequate definition of resource requirements,
methodologies, implermentation plans, transitional proposals, and the other necessary preparation to
facilitate the introduction of a potentially contentious tax. The tax will be conceptually new and will
represent a new liabilily for the large majority of taxpayers.
Description: A compcnent centered on the Ministry of Finance, in co-operation with the other relevant
Ministries and agencies, and drawing on the valuable work already undertaken by the ONIX project and
the FAO project will include the following sub-components:
(i)   Policy and legislative development. The policy for a market value based real estate taxation has
been agreed in principle, and is the subject of a draft law that has been widely circulated and
commented on over the past four years. There remains, however, a significant amount of work to
be done in further development and refinement. Appropriate provision for the support for this and
They were insignificant as a percentage of GDP (0.00003% in 1995) and of general government tax revenues (0.0002% in
1997)
4 In 1994, only 50,000 buildings were taxed. There were around 650,000 dwelling units (1991), 68,000 enterprises and 60,000
craft establishments (1994).
5 These are income taxes and are therefore divided between central (70%) and local (30%) government.



Page 35
related legislative development will be essential for the project component. Technical assistance in
the form of international and national specialists will be provided.
(ii) Tax system development. The development of the market value based real estate tax system in
two pilot areas will require systems design and development and additional goods and materials to
equip the relevant Ministry of Finance departments (e.g., establishment of Valuation Department,
and the Tax Administration) and in the pilot municipalities.
(iii) Pilots and testing. The component will involve two specifically targeted representative pilots
during phase 1, PY 1 and 2, of the project to supplement work currently being undertaken in
Maribor by the ONIX project. Phase 2 will provide for the practical testing of the new taxation
system in the pilot municipalities during PY 3, 4 and 5. This will include provision for
development of the practical administration of the tax including particularly collection, for efficient
management of the appropriate tasks to enable valuation approaches to be developed, valuation and
taxation lists to be drawn up and tested effectively, and appropriate appeals procedures to be
developed. The costs for these two phases are included under pilot valuation and tax rolls, and
operational support respectively. These sums include an allowance for provision for required
materials and equipment.
(iv) Education and training. The implementation of the pilot in PY1 and 2, and the testing of the new
taxation system in the pilot municipalities during PY 3, 4 and 5 will require the training of
significant numbers of technically competent valuers, and rather smaller numbers of professional
level valuers. The transition to a market economy, particularly if and when Slovenia resolves the
issue of mortgages, will demand such talents as well, and appropriate courses will be developed
with appropriate support with the relevant institution(s)/university(ies) in Slovenia. Provision for
the development of an appropriate course is included.
(v)  Public relations. The development and testing of the proposed real property tax will involve a far
wider spread of liabilities for the tax, and probably considerably higher tax payments. It is essential
that this is anticipated and supported by a concerted public relations and information exercise,
initially in the selected pilot areas, and subsequently more widely across the Republic. Appropriate
provision is made in the component for this.
Implementation and Financing Arrangements: This component would be implemented by the MOF. The
component would fund consulting services, computer equipment and operational budget for the
development and piloting to a property tax system in two pilot districts.
Component F. Housing Finance and Mortgage Reform
Objective: This component would finance the legal advice and workshops for reviewing and
improving the legal framework for housing finance, including mortgage. It would provide the legal
groundwork for the proposed housing finance project, that is expected to follow this project.
Background: The central legal problem in real estate finance in Slovenia is the inability for the
financial sector to engage in true secured lending, that is, lending where a real asset serves as collateral
for loan repayment. For an asset to serve as collateral, it must be possible as a last resort for the lender to
have swift and sure access to ownership of the asset upon non-payment by the borrower. Effective
foreclosure and eviction procedures, a sound registration system, and mortgage banking regulations are
required for the emergence of efficient mortgage finance for real estate.
Nevertheless, because default risk is comparatively low and the housing credit market is largely
untapped, financial institutions currently issue "housing loans" to their most valued customers, and are
planning to significantly expand this activity by pushing the credit quality threshold of their borrower
base further downward. Several bank officials commented that, while they recognize that such lending is



Page 36
both inefficient and risky in the current legal environment, competitive pressures require them to enter
into the market in advance of legal reforms and with the anticipation that such reforms will be enacted in
the near term. With some credit institutions building a presence in the market, others are following suit
under the belief that they cannot afford to sit on the sidelines and delay entry into the market until the
appropriate legal infrastructure is put in place.
This developing environment is, at best, inefficient and, at worst, dangerous. Banks currently
secure their housing loans with the "mortgage" itself, often supplemented with a patchwork of third party
guarantees, other pledged collateral, and the anticipation of wage garnishment. Measuring this security
based on its potential value under a supportive legal system, housing loans are vastly over collateralized.
Further, as banks rush to expand their loan portfolios and capture market share, the insecurity of collateral
has the potential of dangerously magnifying this unnecessary (and immeasurable) risk throughout the
financial sector. In this environment, there are large dividends to be realized from enacting legal reforms.
Description:
This component would address the legal and systemic issues related to mortgages, especially execution of
foreclosure and related remedies (with consideration of the social consequences), and considering the
legal framework that would enable the mobilization of funds for housing finance.
Implementation and Financing Arrangements: This component will be managed by the Ministry of
Finance, which has jurisdiction over this set of laws. It will finance legal consultants to review and
provide advice on amendments to the laws related to housing finance.
Component G. Legal Framework for Property Ownership
Objective: This component would provide funding to technical support for legislative changes
consultation by legal professionals from outside government to: (i) develop policy options for legal
solutions and draft laws required for project activities under the responsibility of MOJ; and (ii) begin
work on the legal aspects of broad sector housing reform issues, including, but not limited to,
development of long-term legal reforms in land registration.
Description: This component would provide a flexible source of funding to address a program of
legal issues and would include:
* the development oi legal and regulatory linkages in the land registration law;
* addressing the legal issues behind the "backlogs" in the land registries,
* development and implementation of a plan to address the registration of apartments (and actually
conduct the work involved) including, if necessary, a development of a condominium law.
Implementation and Financing Arrangements: This component would be financed by the MOJ.
The project would finance consultant legal services.
Component I. Project Coordination Support and Strategic Studies
This component would fund a project coordination office (PCO). The PCO would report to the
Project Steering Comrmittee of the Inter-ministerial Program Council. The Program Council would
appoint a project manager to whom the Project Administration Officer would report and who would
resolve any day to day management problems that could not be resolved by the Project Administration
Officer. The PCO would undertake project administration functions including project, procurement,
coordination, reporting,, and monitoring and evaluation. The PCO would also assist in the preparation of
two Strategic Studies: (i) a framework for information management/ technology within the project
agencies; and (ii) a cost recovery strategy for SMA and Supreme Court. The PCO would be located
within the SMA. The component would finance: goods and services (office equipment); consultant
contracts, and studies; contracts for financial audits, technical audits, monitoring and evaluation; recurrent
costs; and training.



Page 37
Annex 3
Slovenia: Real Estate Registration Modernization Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                        Local          Foreign       Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
A. Land and Building Cadastre                                2.0            9.7          11.7
B. Land Register                                             1.8             1.6          3.4
C. Apartment Registration Development                        2.3            0.1           2.4
D. Agriculture Land Use Monitoring                           1.3             1.5          2.8
E. Real Estate Tax and Valuation System Development          1.0             1.0          2.0
F. Housing Finance Mortgage Reform                           0.1            0.1           0.2
F. Legal Framework for Property Ownership                    0.1            0.1           0.2
H. Project Coordination Support                              1.8            0.8           2.6
1. Front End Fee                                                            0.2           0.2
Total                                                       10.4            15.1         25.5
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                                     1.0            1.5           2.5
Price Contingencies                                       0.5             0.4           0.9
Total Project Cost                                          11.9            17.0         28.9






Page 39
Annex 4
Slovenia: Real Estate Registration Modermization Project
Economic Analysis Summary
Summary of benefits and costs:
Efficient real estate registration and cadastre systems are an essential part of the economic infrastructure
of modern market economies. Based on the experience in many countries, an efficient real estate
registration system has the following benefits for real estate holders by giving them:
* improved security of tenure against unfair land acquisition;
* the possibility to sell real property at fair prices, in a timely manner, and at low transactions costs;
* the ability to better use real estate as collateral; and
* improved access to land for commercial purposes.
In cases where an ex-post economic analysis of the impact of title registration systems have been done,
the economic benefits have been significant. For example, in Thailand the price for registered land was
between 75% and 192% higher than for unregistered land in similar adjacent agricultural areas (Feeder,
1988). Registration also resulted in increased levels of both labor and capital investments in land by
farmers, thereby contributing to increases in productivity and household incomes.
In the case of Slovenia, which has an existing title registration system, the primary benefit from upgrading
the system will be the reduction in transactions cost associated with the existing system. At present there
are delays as long as 18 months in some County Court registration offices, most of the 650,000
apartments in the country have never been registered and they are still difficult to register, and the quality
of the cadastral mapping system make registration transactions difficult to check and prone to registration
errors. This inefficient system, together with the inadequate legal framework for real estate market
development result in real borrowing rates for mortgages that are 4.75 - 6 percentage points above the rate
for Government bonds (the risk free rate), compared to UK, Denmark, Germany and France that have
spreads over the risk free rate ranging from 1.2 to 1.5 percent.
While the ex ante estimation of the economic rate of return for the project is not possible, we can
determine the order of magnitude of the potential economic returns from this relatively small investment
of $15 million dollars. If we assume that only 10 percent of the approximately 1 million properties in
Slovenia are mortgaged, that each property has an estimated value of US$ 100,000, and that each property
is mortgaged to 50 percent of it value. Under these conservative assumptions, each 1 percent reduction in
the interest rate for mortgages, reflecting a reduced transactions cost and risk premium resulting from the
project, would result in a cost saving to individuals and businesses of approximately US $50 million per
year. Based on this analysis, and the high probability a more efficient title registry and legal environment
for mortgage lending investment will result in at least a 1 percent decrease in mortgage lending rates, we
can conclude that the project will yield sufficient direct returns to justify the relatively small incremental
investment of $15 million proposed under this project.
In addition to the direct benefits of reduced mortgage rates and transactions costs, there are a number of
indirect benefits that are likely to result from the project. Reduced mortgage rates will result in increased
overall economic activity due to a more fluid property market, increased housing construction, and land
consolidation in farming areas. It would also result in the social benefits of more affordable housing.
Increased security of tenure would provide one of the necessary conditions for increased direct foreign
investment, an expansion of rental markets for real estate, and will increase the overall level of mortgage
lending. It would also reduce the risk currently faced by the overall banking system of providing
unsecured housing finance. Improved information systems will result in increased quality of information
and increased information access by land holders/users, land professionals, and government. The



Page 40
magnitude of these indirect benefits are expected to be substantially higher than the direct benefits
described above.
While the primary economic benefits of this project are from an improved title registration system and
legal framework for real estate transactions, the design of the project around a multipurpose land cadastre,
will allow multiple uses for the base mapping and other core database information, and therefore result in
additional benefits to the investments under this project The Agricultural Land Use Monitoring system
and the Property Tax System developed under this project are examples of two such additional uses.
Local municipalities are already engaged in cost sharing arrangements with SMA to prepare maps and
develop databases for itheir use. For relatively small incremental investments in tailoring information to
the needs of specific clients, the land cadastre can yield additional economic benefits.



Page 41
Annex 5
Slovenia: Real Estate Registration Modernization Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending
(US$, millions; Base Year 1999)
Implementation Period                      Operational Period
2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008    2009
Project Costs
Investment Costs              8.2      8.4     8.8     2.0      1.5     0       0        0       0        0
Total                       8.2     8.4      8.8     2.0     1.5      0       0       0        0       0
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
IBRD/IDA                      3.9      4.7     4.2     1.2      1.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
(13.5)  (16.2)  (14.5)   (4.2)   (3.5)
EU PHARE (Grant)              1.6              1.6                      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
(5.5)           (5.5)
Government                    2.7      3.7     3.0     0.8      0.5     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
(9.4)  (12.8)  (10.4)   (2.8)   (1.7)
Total                       8.2     8.4      8.8     2.0     1.5      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
(28.4)  (29.0)  (30.4)   (7.0)   (5.2)
Main assumptions: Since this project is modernizing existing systems for real estate registration, land use monitoring and property tax, only the incremental
investments required for this modernization process are shown in the table. Ongoing operation costs and routine investment costs for all of these systems are
expected to continue at approximately the same levels after project completion, with adjustments for increased transactions volumes over time.






Page 43
Annex 6
Slovenia: Real Estate Registration Modernization Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement Responsibilities
1 .    An assessment of the procurement capacity of the agencies involved has been prepared and submitted
to the Regional Procurement Advisor. The assessment covered the capacity of the following implementing
agencies: Survey and Mapping Authority in the Ministry of Environment (SMA); Ministry of Finance (MOF);
Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food (MAFF) and Ministry of Justice (MOJ), which will be responsible
for conducting procurement of goods, technical services, works and technical assistance. According to the
Procurement Unit in the MOF, Clause 55(9) of the Public Procurement law exempts procurement under
international agreements (such as the Bank-financed operations) from its applications.
2.    All the agencies involved have considerable experience in conducting procurement in accordance with
the public procurement law; therefore their experience is limited to national procurement. In order to
strengthen the agencies and extend their experience in international procurement, the following measures will
be taken by the borrower:
(a)    The Project Coordination Office (PCO) in the SMA has appointed a procurement officer who
will be responsible for procurement implementation under the SMA component. She will also provide
technical support to the project teams for the other components. The procurement officer has already attended
a Bank-organized procurement seminar in Budapest. She should receive further training on World Bank-
procurement procedures and practices before the loan becomes effective. An option for this training is with the
ILO Turin.
(b)    A procurement workshop should be held immediately after Board approval to provide start-up
training to the staff of PCO and the Project Teams in the Bank-financed procurement and practices in order to
support an early project start-up. During this workshop, the PCO will be guided in preparing draft invitations
to quote for NS and IS plus initiation of standard bidding documents for ICB and RFPs for consultant
assignments.
(c)    The frequency of the procurement supervision should be once every 6 months. The
supervision missions should include a procurement specialist especially during the first year of the work. The
procurement specialist will not only conduct ex-post review but also continue to provide guidance and support
to the procurement officer in the PCO and in the procurement staff in the project teams.
Procurement Methods (Table A)
3.    Procurement for goods financed from IBRD loan proceeds will be conducted in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. A General Procurement Notice will be
published in the Development Business of the United Nations in June 1999. Procurement of consultants will be
conducted in accordance with Guidelines - Selection and Employment of Consultants by the World Bank
Borrowers, dated January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents for Goods and Standard Request for Proposals and Standard Form of Consultants' Contracts will
be used. The Project procurement arrangements are shown in Table A below. Details are included in the
Procurement Plan.



Page 44
Goods
4.    International Competitive Bidding (ICB) will be used for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$200,000 or more per contract. International Shopping (IS) will be used for contracts less than US$200,000
per contract. National Shopping (NS), based on comparing quotations from at least three suppliers, will be
used for contracts estimated to cost less than US$75,000 each. Procurement of any computer equipment or
software will require Y2K compliance. For the aggregate amount see Table A.
Technical Services
5.    Total value of the technical services to be procured under the project will be about US$16.43 million
(US$8.86 million to be Bank-financed). Technical services constitute approximately 54 % of the project
value. These include mapping, land registration and cadastre systems, etc. Contracts for digital orthophoto
maps, digitization of cadastral maps, matching graphics, building cadastre and map interpretation, estimated to
cost US$300,000 or more equivalent per contract, will be procured through ICB procurement procedures. The
land and building registration, valuation and data entry, and control drawings contracts estimated to cost less
than US$300,000 equivalent per contract, will be procured following the NCB procurement procedures. These
services are available inside the country at competitive prices from several suppliers. International Shopping
(estimated to cost UJS$200,000 or more per contract) will be followed for the first slices of Component A and
Component D technical services. This will allow continuity of the project activities that the Borrower has
already undertaken.. It will allow a smooth transition to ICB. National Shopping (NS), estimated to cost less
than US$75,000 per contract, will be followed for pilot registration apartments data entry and scanning and up-
date of data base. For the aggregate amounts see Table A.
Consulting Services
6.    The loan will finance TA and training totaling about US$ 4.06 million. Consultants' Services will be
mostly selected through the Quality and Cost Based method of Selection (QCBS). Such contracts will be
advertised in the Development Business and in a national newspaper for expression of interest, from which a
short list will be drawn. Consultants for assignment of standard or routine contracts may be selected through
the Least Cost Selection method. Individual experts will be selected in accordance with Part V of the
Consultant Guidelines. Candidatures will be advertised and selection will be made on the basis of pre-
established criteria which will be formulated in agreement with the Bank. The aggregate amounts are shown
under the procurement Table A.
Training
7.    A schedule for training activities will be prepared on an annual basis as part of the annual work plan
process and submitted to IBRD for no objection (see details in Table A). See Table A for aggregate amounts.
Recurrent Costs -- Incremental Operating Costs
8.     The Loan will finance part of the incremental operating costs of about US$1.65 million of the PCO to
coordinate and administer the project (see Component 7 ). These expenditures will be in accordance with an
annual budget that will be submitted to the Bank for prior approval on an annual basis.



Page 45
Bank's Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
9.     Prior review thresholds are as follows:
(a) Goods: first IS and NS packages from each component.
(b) Technical Services - All ICB packages and the first NCB, IS and NS packages from each
component.
(c) Consulting Services - Bank prior review will be required for all terms of reference, irrespective
of the contract value.
- Contracts greater than US$200,000 with firms: after the technical proposals have been
evaluated, the technical evaluation report will be submitted to the Bank for its review prior to
the opening of the financial proposals. Financial proposals will be opened in public only after
the Bank's no objection to the technical evaluation report.
- Contracts greater than US$100,000 and less than US$200,000 with firms: the Bank will be
notified of the results of the technical evaluation prior to the opening of the financial
proposals. Following the opening of the financial proposals and evaluation thereof, a full
evaluation report will be submitted to the Bank.
- With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of US$25,000 or more for
employment of individual consultants: the qualification, experience, terms of reference, and
terms of employment of the consultant will be furnished for the Bank's prior review;
- Contracts less than US$25,000 with individuals: terms of reference;
- All training related expenses (tuition, fee, transportation, per diem, and trainers' fee) would
require prior approval.
Post Review
I1.   All contracts not subject to the Bank's prior review will be subject to post review, on a selective basis.
One out of five contracts for goods, technical services and consulting services will be subject to ex-post
review. Supervision missions will include a procurement specialist especially in the first year, whose main
responsibility will be to conduct ex-post reviews of the procurement process and documentation, and provide
his or her findings.
Disbursement
12.   Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C): Goods, technical services and consulting services, and PCO
incremental operating costs. The Project will be executed over a five year period. The proposed closing date
for the project would be June 30, 2005. Disbursement in the early period is expected to be based on the Bank's
existing disbursement procedures. The Government has no experience with the Bank's new Project
Management Report (PMR) based disbursement procedure. The use of these simplified disbursement
procedures would, however, require that the Government establish a sound financial management and
reporting system for the Project, the key elements of which are outlined in the Project Financial Management
System Manual. At Negotiations, the Bank and the Borrower agreed to an action plan for the establishment of
a Financial Management System (FMS) acceptable to the Bank.
13.   Special account: To facilitate timely project implementation, the PCO will establish, maintain, and
operate, under conditions acceptable to IBRD, a Special Account denominated in US dollars in a bank
acceptable to IBRD. The maximum authorized allocation of the Special Account will be limited to



Page 46
EUR 2.7 million (1JS$ 3.0 million equivalent). Replenishment applications should be submitted monthly and
must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
14.    Use of stalements of expenditures (SOEs): Reimbursement of expenditures made from the Special
Account may be mrade on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), for the following items:
Goods andl Technical Services: contracts amounting to less than US$200,000 and $300,000
respectively.
Consulting services-firms: contracts amounting to less than US$ 100,000.
Consulting services-individuals: contracts amounting to less than US$25,000.
Training, studies, and operating costs: all contracts.
The required supporting documents will be retained by the PCO for at least one year after receipt by the Bank
of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. This documentation will be made
available for review by the auditors and by visiting IBRD staff upon request.
Financial Management
15.   Accounts: The PCO will maintain an accounting and auditing system which will have the capacity of
recording and retrieving all financial transactions associated with the project in a timely manner and comply
with internationally accepted standards. This will be used for tracking both the govemment counterpart funds
and those to be provided by other sources of funding and will be in compliance with PMR format, acceptable
to the Bank. Terms of Reference for this assignment and reporting formats have been agreed with the
Borrower and attached to the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). An action Plan for establishment of this
system is also attached to PIP.
16.   Audits: Project Accounts will be audited in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting
and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982). Within six months of the end of each
fiscal year during the life of the Project, the Borrower will provide the Bank with an audit report of such scope
and detail as the Bank may reasonably request. TORs for this assignment have been agreed with the Borrower
and are attached to the PIP.
Project Reporting
17.   The PCO will prepare proper six monthly Progress Reports and submit them to the Bank in a timely
fashion in March and September. Once the FMS has been established, the PCO will submit to the Bank, a
PMR, acceptable to the Bank, on a quarterly basis, no later than 45 days after the end of each quarter. This
PMR will serve as the basis for quarterly disbursements.
Implementation Schedule
18.   The project will be implemented over a five-year period.



Page 47
Annex 6, Table Al: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US $ million)
Expenditure Category                  Procurement Method                    Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB        NCB          Other  NBF
1. Goods                                                 0.55     2.56        3.11
(0.30) bl           (0.30)
2. Technical Services       12.57            3.24        0.62                  16.43
(6.77)c/        (1.74)d/    (0.33)e/              (8.84)
3. Consultants Services                                  6.60     0.64        7.24
and Training                                            (4.06)f7             (4.06)
4. Incremental                                            1.65    0.25        1.91
Operating Cost                                          (1.65)g/             (1.65)
5. Front End Fee                                         0.15                 0.15
(0.15)               (0.15)
Total                    12.57          3.24           9.57     3.45      28.83
(6.77)        (1.74)        (6.49)              (15.00)
Note:     Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
b/ Includes:
IS (US$0.27 million)
NS (US$0.03 million)
c/ Includes ICB (US$6.77 million)
d/ Includes NCB (US$1.74 million)
e/ Includes:
IS (US$0.25 million)
NS (US$0.08 million)
fl Consulting contracts consist of: QCBS (aggregate of US$2.86 million);
LCS (US$0.27 million);
individual consultants (aggregate of US$0.51 million);
Training includes national and foreign training and study tours (aggregate of USS0.42million).
g/ Incremental Operating Costs: (US$ 1.65 million)
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IBRD loan
NBF means Non-Bank Financed.



Page 48
Table A2: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(US$ million)
Consultant Services                                         Selection    Method
Expenditure Category
QCBS         QBS         SFB         LCS         CQ         Other      N.B.F.    Total Costl
A. Firms                 4.88         0.00        0.00        0.27        0.00       0.00        0.64         5.79
(2.86)      (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.27)      (0.00)      (0.00)     (0.00)       (3.13)
B. Individuals           0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00       0.51        0.00         0.51
(0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.51)     (0.00)       (0.51)
Total     4.88         0.00        0.00        0.27        0.00        0.51       0.64         6.30
(2.86)      (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.27)      (0.00)      (0.51)     (0.00)       (3.64)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.I. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Page 49
Table A3: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review I
Contract Value                                 Contracts Subject to
Threshold               Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category            (US$ thousands)             Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                                   n.a.                      n.a                     0.00
2. Goods                                   <200                       IS                     0.07
<75                      NS.                     0.03
3. Technical Services                     >=300                     ICB                      6.77
<300                     NCB                      0.30
<200                      IS                      0.06
<75                      NS                      0.03
4. Consultants Services/training           >100                   QCBS/LCS                   3.13
Ind                     0.51
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:        10.9
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
has been determined to be of high risk.
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months.






Page 51
Annex 6, Table B: Project Procurement-Related Information and Review Thresholds
(US$ million)
S:etion 1. Procurement Review
Goods           ICB          NCB                                NS                Minor Works           Other methods      Percentage of loan amount subject to
Is                                                                                  prior review
Procurement      TS>$0.300     TS<$0.300   G<$0.200       G<$0.075
thresholds:      (US$6770)    (US$1.740)  (US$0.270)    (US$0.030
individual and                              TS<$0.200     TS<$0.075
aggregate                                  (US$0.254)    (US$0.078)
Prior Review     All            Fir         First          First                                                                US$ 7.26 or
(US$6.77)     (US$0.30)   (US$0.07)      (US$0.03)
(US$0.06)     (US$0.03)                                                            48%
Consultants      QCBS          QBS          Fixed Budget  LCS                      Qualifications        Individual
Procurement     (US$2.86)      n.a.                       (US$0.27)                                      >US$0.025
method                                                                                                   (US$0.51)
thresholds
Prior Review     All                                       All                                           All                    US$ 3.64 or
(US$2.86)                                (US$0.27)                                      (US$0.51)             24%
Total  US$10.9 million
Ex-post Review    Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism:
The Bank will monitor procurement activities, contract management, and Project record keeping during periodic supervision missions. Each supervision mission will include
a procurement specialist to conduct ex-post review. One out of five contracts for goods, technical services and consultants services will be subject to ex-post review.
6 First from each component



Page 52
Primaiy responsibility for overseeing implementation of procurement procedures will rest with the staff of the PCO. All agencies involved have considerable experience in the procurement in
accordance with the public procurement law, therefore their experience is limited to national procurement. In order to strength the agencies and extend their experience in the international
procurement, the following are proposed:
(i)     The Project Coordination Office (PCO) in the SMA should have a procurement person responsible for procurement implementation under the SMA component and for
providing technical support to the Project Component Teams for the other components. This person should be trained in the World Bank-financed procurement procedures and practices before
the loan becomes effective. This training can be undertaken in ILO Turin.
(ii)    A procurement workshop should be held immediately after Roarrdanprova] to provide strt-up training to thne staff of PO and the Project Component
Teams in the Bank-financed procurement and practices. During this workshop, the PCO will be guided in preparing draft invitations to quote for NS and IS, standard bidding
documents for ICB and RFPs for consultants.
(iii)    The frequency of the procurement supervision should be once every 6 months. The supervision missions should include a procurement specialist especially
during the first year of the work, who will not only conduct ex-post review but also continue provide guidance and support to the procurement officers in the PCO and in the
procurement staff in the project component teams.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement  Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year ready by board
Strategy Paper status: No Country Procurement Assessment has  Yes x   No
been prepared for Slovenia.
tfleAra=p.2ur.J,uAifll&~wimmh . i-                  =:
Estimated date of Project   Estimated date of publication of  Indicate if there is procurement   Domestic Preference for Goods:   Domestic Preference for Works, if applicable: n/a
Launch Workshop (for     General Procurement Notice:    subject to mandatory SPN in  Yes
procurement):            July 99                        Development Business: Yes
June/July 1999
Retroactive financing: No                                                                     A
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: Procurement implementation progress will be monitored through progress reports and supervision missions. At least one supervision
mission per year will include a procurement specialist. She/he will be responsible for updating the procurement plan, and conducting ex-post reviews. His/her findings will be included in the
supervision reports for monitoring their implementation.
Co-financing: Explain briefly the procurement arrangements under co-financing: To be determined at appraisal.



Page 53
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project:
Name: Naushad Khan, Procurement Specialist, Ext 32699
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement: A project officer in the Resident Mission will be responsible for supervising project implementation and provide
procurement support in which he will be trained.



Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category            Amount in US$
'000,000            Financing Percentage
Goods
Goods                                          0.28                54%
Technical Services
8.17               54 %
Consulting Services and Training
Consulting Services and Training for Parts     2.30                54%
A through G
Consulting Services and Training for Part H     1.10               54%
Incremental Operating Costs                     1.50              100%
Front End Fee                                  0.15               100%
Unallocated                                     1.50
Total          15.00



Annex 7
Slovenia: Real Estate Registration Modernization Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned              Actual
174
B. Project Schedule                             Planned              Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     5 months             5 months
First Bank mission (identification)           08/31/1998           08/31/1999
Appraisal mission departure                   04/17/1999           04/17/1999
Negotiations                                   05/13/1999          05/13/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  11/1511999           _/_/19_
Prepared by: SMA, SC, MOJ, MAFF, MOF
Preparation assistance: None
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
Joseph Goldberg                            Sector Leader
Michael Nightingale              Senior Economist, Program Team Leader
lain Shuker                   Senior Economist, Task Team Leader
Lynn Holstein                  Senior Land Administration Specialist
Naushad Khan                       Senior Procurement Officer
Hiran Herat                         Senior Financial Analyst
David Bontempo                            Project Analyst



Annex 8
Slovenia: Real Estate Registration Modernization Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Slovenia Housing Sector Mission: Further Examination of the Legal Framework for Housing
Finance and Development, World Bank Memo, May 28, 1998.
Real Estate Finance in Slovenia: Options for Reform, Internal Bank Working Paper, January
22, 1998
C. Other
*Including electronic files.



Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions        and actual           Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                 disbursements a/   Supervision Rating b/
Project ID   Year         Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD     IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.   Orig  Frm Rev'd  Dev Obj   Imp
Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 5
Active Projects
SI-PE-8853   1996  ENVIRONMENT FUND OF             ENVIRONMENT               23.90      0.00      0.00      2.76      1.35      0.00    HS       HS
SLOVENIA
Total                                                                        23.90      0.00      0.00      2.76      1.35      0.00
Active Projects    Closed Projects    Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and              17.05          194.38          211.43
IDA):
of which has been repaid:            0.00           82.44           82.44
Total now held by IBRD and             23.90          112.43          136.33
IDA:
Amount sold         :                   0.00            0.00            0.00
Of which repaid    :                  0.00            0.00            0.00
Total Undisbursed     :                 2.76             .48            3.24
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS  highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U  unsatisfactory,
HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Annex 10: Slovenia at a glance                                                                 9/30/98
Eurooe &
POVERTY an4i SOCIA                                          C~t        Hioh.        -      "'-
Slovenia     Asi   Incme         Development diamond*
PoDuorlto.~ mid-year (millions)                       2.0      4176      928                 Life expectancy
GNP Der CaDita (Atlas method. US$1                 !9.680     2.320    25.700
GNP (Atlas method. US$ billions)                     19.3     1.106    23.802                      T
Averaae annual orowth. 1991.97
PoDulation (%l                                       -0.1       0.2       0.7
Labor force (%l6                                      0.1       0.5       0~9     GNP                             Gross
per         44.       ~        primary
Most recent estlmate (latestvear available. 19914971                              capita                      enntmimnt
Povrty (56 of DoDulat ion belowi national oovertv,line)
Urban oooulation 1% of total ooou.ation)              52        67        78
Life exoectancv at birth (veers)                      74         69       78
Infant mortality (Der 1. 000 live bIrths)              6         25        6
Child malnutrition (56 of children under 5)             ..        .         ,Access to safe water
Access to safe water (56 of oobuilation)                ,.        ..      94
Illiteracy (% Of DODUlitionwae 15+1                    .,         .         
Gross orimarv enrollment (%of'school-aoe COorUlation)  97       92       10                   Sovni
Male                                                  .         .      104                  High-income group
Female                                               ...               103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS arnd L.ONG-TERM,TRENDS
A1976    1986      1996      1997
Economic ratioe
GDP (UJS$ billions)                         ..          ,      18.9      1 8.0
Gross domestic itnvestmert/GDP                .        ..      23.4      24.1
ExDorts Of Ooods and serviceslG DP            .         ,      54,3      57.4Trd
Gross domestic savinvos/GDP                    .        ..     22.5      22.6
Gross national savinos/GDP                     .       ..      23.7      23.8
Current account balance/GDP                    .       ..       0,2       0.2      om      
Interest oavrntents/GDP                       .         .       1.0       1.2     Doetc -Investment
Total debtlGDP                                 ,        .      21. 3     23.2     Savings
Total debt service/exoorts                     .        ,.      8.6       8.5
Present value of debt/GDP,.                            .       191 7
Present value of debt/exoorts                  .       ..      34.0
Indebtedness
19764   198747      1996      1997   1998-02
(averaoe annual orowth)
GDP                                  ,.      14       3.1       3.8              tSloveni a
G NP Der caoita                             AJ4.   ~2.7         3.8                            High-income group
Exoorts of aoods and services.              -2.5!    2.8        7,5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986     11996      1997     Growth rates of output and Invest'ment (%/)
(%6 of GDP)                                                                        0 
Aoriculture                                    .        ..      4.5       4.5
Industry.v.                                                    38.5      37.9    15
Manufacturina                                .        ..      28.4     27.7
Services                                       .        ..     58.9      57.7      0
Private consumotion                            .        ..     57.3      57.0     1
General aovernment consumotion                 .        ..     20.1      20.5                   G01    -''GDP
Imoorts of aoods and services                 .        ..      55.2      58.9
(averaoe annual arowth)                  11976486  1987-97     1996     11997     Growth rates of exports and Imports(/)
Aoriculture                                   ..      0.3       1.7       1.5    20 
Industryv.                                            0.3       1.3       1.0    10-
Manufacturina                                .      2.4        1.4      0.5 
Services                                      ..      3.8       3.5       4.7            93   93 94   95   99   97
Private consumotion                           ..      3.7       2.6       2.     .2
General covernment consumotion                ..      2.3       2.2       5~.0   -2
Gross domestic investment                     ..      9.0       1.7       5.2 
Imoorts of aoods and services                  .      1.7       1.3       7.3              -Exports   --*'-mports
Gross national omduct                         ..      4.2       2.8       386
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates. Regional aggregate data exclude high-income economies.
*The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv tin bold) comoared with its income-arouo averaoe. If data are missina. the diamond will
be incomolete.



Slovenia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1996      1997      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                            25T
Consumer prices                                                                             om .. 9.9  8.4
Implicit GDP deflator                             ..      ..       11.5       8.4     150
100
Government finance                                                                     so
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                     0
Current revenue                                   ..      ..       44.8      44.6              92   93    94    ss   9s    97
Current budget balance                           ..       ..        2.4       0.9                    GDP deflator    w  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..       ..        0.3      -1.1
TRADE
1976     1986       1996      1997      Export and Import levels (US$ mililons)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                               ..      ..      8.310     8.372     10,000 T
Machinery and transport equipment               ..       ..     2,773     2,815
Chemicals                                      ..        ..       881       942       7,500
Manufactures                                   ..        ..     4,092     4,019
Total imports (cif)                              ..        ..    9,421      9,358      s,o**
Food                                           ..        ..       676       632
Fuel and energy                                ,.        ..       755       780
Capital goods                                  ..        ..     3,178     3,094         0
ExDort Drice index (1995-100)                    9. ..
ImDort orice index (1995=100)                                                                    *Exports       Imports
Terms of trade (1995=1001                        ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                11976     1986       1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                    ..       ..    10,497    10,450       8
Imports of goods and services                     ..      ..   10,674    10,831
Resource balance                                 ..       ..       -177      -182      e
Net income                                        ..      ..        155       131      4
Net current transfers                             ..      ..         61        88              I          L         
Current account balance                          ..       ..         38        37     |
Financing items (net)                            ..       ..        548     1,251          91    2   93   94   95  9D   97
Changes in net reserves                           ..      ..       -587    -1,287     L2
Memo:
Reserves includina aold (USSmillionsl             .        ,.     4.130     4.357
Conversion rate (DEC. IocallUS$J                 ..       ..      135.4    159.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997
(USS millions)                                                                         Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              ..       ..     4,010     4,176
IBRD                                           .,        .        155       140                         A 140 E:142
IDA                                            ,,       .,          0         0               G:572
Total debt service                               ..        ..       935       921
IBRD                                           ..       ..         36        29
IDA                                            ..       ..          0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                .,       ..          0         0
Official creditors                             ..       ..        -48         2
Private creditors                              ..       ..        675       413
Foreign direct investment                      ..       ..        178      295
Portfolio equity                               ..         ..      360        50                            F: 3,33
World Bank program
Commitments                                    ..       ..         24         0     A-IBRD                         E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  ..       ..          6        17     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                           ..       ..         25        20     C - IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                      ..       ..        -19        -2
Interest payments                              ..       ..         11         9
Net transfers                                  ..       ..        -30       -12
Development Economics                                                                                                     9/30/98



