Report No. PID7382
Project Name                     Slovenia-Land Cadastre Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Environment and Socially Sustainable
Development
Project ID                       SIPE55304
Borrower                         Government of the Republic of Slovenia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Environment and Physical Planning
Mr. Ales Seliskar, Director
Survey and Mapping Authority
Ljubljana, Slovenia
Tel:     386 61 17 84 900
Fax:     386 61 17 84 909
Also Ministry of Finance
Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food
Supreme Court
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           February 5, 1999
Date Initial PID Prepared        May 1998
Projected Appraisal Date         March 1999
Projected Board Date             June 1999
Background
1.      The de-nationalization of land and property commenced in Slovenia
1991 under the Constitution. Since then there have been new laws enacted on
Agricultural Lands, Building Land, and Real Estate in Social Ownership, and
the Law on the Land Register (1995). This last law reinforced the
registration of title system introduced into Slovenia in 1747, during the time
of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Today, property rights are not secure until
registered in this land registration system. The Government is continuing to
address real estate markets and their infrastructure. The law on Cadastre
(1976) is under revision and will be reviewed by the pre-appraisal mission,
especially in regard to clear technical, legal, and financial linkages between
the two agencies. The Government is continuing to address and support real
estate markets and their infrastructure through this proposed Project.
2.      The Government of Slovenia has also made a clear commitment for EU
accession within the next 5 years. One of the requirements of EU accession is
an improved land administration system, with the objective to have real estate
more freely traded by citizens of the EU. It also means a requirement for
efficient land use monitoring systems for participation in the EU Common
Agricultural Policy (CAP), and other programs.
The Proposed Loan
3.      Objective.   The objective of this project is to improve the viability of
the real property registration system and to contribute to the development of
efficient real estate markets. This will be achieved by the promotion of a
more unified system of land registration, and by improving the linkages



between the parcel identification part of the system managed by the Survey and
Mapping Authority, and the rights and title part operated by the district
court offices in the provinces. It would also address the inefficiencies that
cause transaction backlogs of up to 18 months in the land registries, and put
in place laws and procedures that potentially will allow 400,000 apartments to
be registered for the first time. Also implemented will be an equitable and
cost-effective real estate property tax and valuation system, and an
agricultural land use monitoring system.
Project Description
4.      The project would consist of the following 6 components: (i) Core
Cadastre including orthophoto mapping, cadastral mapping improvement, linkages
to the land registry, information technology and information management
coordination, and a Buildings Register; (ii) Legal Cadastre (Land Registration
Integration) would provide: on-going systems development, registration process
streamlining, land records strategy development and modernization, and
training; measures to address the backlogs; linkages to the cadastre, and
apartment registration; (iii) Agriculture Land Use Monitoring System
established to support Slovenia's possible future participation in the CAP and
other programs of the EU; (iv) Real Estate Tax System development for the
development of a recurrent real estate property tax system including real
estate valuation; (v) Legal Framework Completion Support to improve the legal
framework for land registration; apartment registration, mortgage
registration; and (vi) Project Management Support to fund a coordination unit,
and implementation units in each agency, TA, and training requirements.
5.      Financing.   The project cost is estimated at US $22 million, of which the
Bank loan is expected to be about US $14 million. The project finance would
include: contracts for aerial photography, digital orthophoto mapping, survey
and mapping contracts, digitizing and data entry and verification of graphics
against text data; contracts for valuation, for adjudication of apartment
rights and apartment identification; and specialists for the land law review
and development, and others.
6.      Implementation.   The project would be implemented over a 5 year period,
by four Ministries: Environment and Physical Planning; Supreme Court and the
Ministry of Justice; Finance; Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
7.      Sustainability.   The project will incorporate maintenance provisions into
the design of all data bases and for mapping. The land registration system
relies on transactions to be registered to maintain its currency. This will
be achieved by adequate publicity and low registration fees and taxes. Cost
recovery studies and provisions would be studied and implemented.
8.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector.    Previous
experience from land registration projects (as reported in a Bankwide survey
(OED 1992)) and from ECA experience to-date) indicates that such projects
should have a strong focus on land objectives rather than just be a component
included in a general development project. Also, there should be a solid
commitment from government. A further point is that the institutional
framework should be simple. As much as feasible, these lessons would be
included in the project design.
9.      Poverty Category.   Not applicable
- 2-



10.     Environmental Aspects.    The environmental impact of the project is
expected to be positive. It will support improved private real estate markets
and better government land use planning, both of which foster more prudent use
of land and natural resources. It will also make available improved
information for environmental use (including real estate information,
including orthophoto maps, aerial photography, and digital cadastral maps
ideal for rapid dissemination).
11.     Project Benefits.   Efficient real estate registration and cadastre
systems are an essential part of the economic infrastructure of market
economies. From experience in many countries, real estate registration system
improvements benefit real estate holders by giving them:
- the possibility to sell real property at fair prices, in a timely
manner, and at low transactions costs;
- the ability to better use real estate as collateral;
- improved access to land for commercial purposes thereby supporting job
creation.
- a more equitable land tax regime; and
- compliance with agricultural monitoring for EU CAP.
12.     Risks.   One risk is that the inter-agency cooperation measures are not
implemented. Further, for the sustainability of the project certain legal
amendments and new laws are necessary.
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Mr. Iain Shuker, ECSSD
Senior Economist
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473 5519
Fax No.:         (202) 614 0696 or 614 0697
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 26, 1999.
- 3 -



